Hey everyone, and welcome back to the
[music] channel. So, Coinbase's CEO,
Brian Armstrong, caused quite the stir
this week when he revealed plans to cut
14% of its workforce, pledging that
thanks to AI, the future is one-person
teams. We'll take a closer look at what
exactly he said and what this might mean
for the people who build products. Plus,
Anthropic's Claude gets the ability to
dream, Google Docs gets new powers that
make it easier to write documents in
your own style, and a new tool that
promises to give teams and agents one
place to create and compound product
context. So, stay tuned for all of that
and more. And as always, if you do enjoy
the briefing, then hit the like and the
subscribe button.
So, we'll start this week with the story
that got plenty of people chatting, and
that is the announcement from Coinbase's
CEO, Brian Armstrong, that it is to lay
off 14% of its workforce. Now, the
layoffs themselves are to be somewhat
expected, given the dire state of the
crypto economy, but what's really got
people talking was the other elements of
his post, which gives us a glimpse into
how Coinbase is running its product
teams and what this might mean for the
future of product development. And to be
fair to Armstrong, he does say that
these layoffs were down to two core
factors. The first being the state of
the crypto market, and the second being
AI. And it's that second part that's got
people in a bit of a tizz. So, he says
that over the past year, he's watched
engineers use AI to ship in days what
used to take a team weeks. Non-technical
teams are now shipping production code,
and many of our workflows are being
automated. The pace of what's possible
with a small focused team has changed
dramatically, and it's changing every
day. As a result, he says the company is
not just reducing head count and cutting
costs, but fundamentally changing how
they operate, rebuilding Coinbase as an
intelligence with humans around the edge
aligning it. In practice, he says, this
has three immediate implications. First
is fewer layers and faster decisions.
So, the company is flattening their org
structure to five layers max below the
CEO and COO. Layers slow things down, he
says, and create a coordination tax.
Second is the removal of pure managers.
So, at Coinbase, every leader must also
be a strong and active individual
contributor. Managers should be like
player coaches, getting their hands
dirty alongside their teams. And the
third is AI-native pods. So, he says
that they'll be concentrating around
AI-native talent who can manage fleets
of agents, and then also be
experimenting with reduced pod sizes,
including one-person teams with
engineers, designers, and product
managers all rolled into one. Now, Brian
is pretty well regarded in tech circles,
with the likes of Paul Graham singing
his praises in the past. So, whatever
you think about crypto itself, it's
possible that his decisions could have a
ripple effect throughout the rest of the
industry. So, if we unpack what he says
here, we can start to get a sense of
where things might be headed. On the
first point, I don't think anyone will
be devastated by the idea of fewer
layers of management in an org
structure. Layers do indeed slow things
down most of the time, and maximizing it
to five seems to be a pretty sensible
idea, at least in theory. Then, things
start to get a little bit more
controversial. So, this is where
Armstrong confirms that there will be no
longer be pure people managers. Instead,
managers will be required to act like
player coaches and getting their hands
dirty. Now, this also makes sense in
theory, but how will this actually work?
So, will the CFO, for example, now be
required to write code financial
analytical tools? Will CTOs and
engineering managers be required to
actually build stuff as well? One
commentator shared this story about a
dashboard a non-technical finance person
built themselves, assuming that it was
connected to production data, when in
fact, it was just stub data.
As well-intentioned as this change may
be, I can see this getting pretty messy
pretty quickly. And it also suggests
that there is little value in the idea
of managing people. If managers are also
now doers and are assessed alongside
their direct reports in terms of the
things that they build, then this could
potentially create strange competitive
dynamics between managers and their
direct reports.
A CFO may not delegate work to their
reports if they're also assessed on
their output. And the last point is
perhaps the most controversial of all,
and this is where he mentioned the idea
of one-person teams who act as a
combination of engineer, designer, and
product manager, all rolled into one,
each managing a fleet of agents. Anyone
who's been paying any attention knows
that the clear boundaries between each
of these roles has been shrinking over
the past few months, and so it does kind
of make sense to consolidate them. But
this assumes that enough of these people
actually exist. How many people can do
the work of a product manager and
successfully figure out what to build,
then design it, and write code it, and
then check the output of that model as
an engineer to ensure it doesn't
introduce some unnecessary tech debt or
some security issue? Elsewhere in the
post, Armstrong also says that
non-technical people are now regularly
shipping code to production, and this
has gone down, as you might imagine,
like a lead balloon, with plenty of
people flagging their concerns about
that. But to be fair, I do think it
depends on where exactly in the code
base these non-technical people are
shipping code. You wouldn't want a
marketing manager casually making core
financial infrastructure changes on a
Tuesday morning over a croissant, but if
this is limited to things like text
changes, then why not? The move from
Armstrong is part of a wider trend that
some people are calling AI washing. So
this is where CEOs position cuts that
were planned anyway as part of a wider
strategy to boost in investor sentiment.
Pinterest was accused of this earlier in
the year, and right now we're starting
to see two main camps emerging. In one
camp is the group of leaders who are
seeing this as an opportunity to
implement layoffs, with the likes of
Square, PayPal, and Meta all confirming
major cuts. And on the other is a group
of companies who see AI as a way to
expand their productivity. Spotify CEO,
for example, is firmly in this camp,
confirming to the Wall Street Journal
this week, "The we're keeping our head
count roughly flat, and just doing much
more shipping more value to consumers."
Andreessen Horowitz's David George
published a new piece this week entitled
The AI Job Apocalypse is a complete
fantasy, arguing that fears of AI
causing mass permanent unemployment are
just the old lump of labor fallacy
dressed up in new clothes. So, this is
the mistaken idea that there's a fixed
amount of work to go around, and so if
AI does much more of it than humans must
do less. This is all well and good, but
it's a difficult conversation to have
with those people who already lost their
jobs in 2026. And as this graph shows,
the layoffs this year so far have been
pretty relentless. What do you think? Is
Armstrong right to reduce teams down to
just one person? Should we celebrate the
end of people managers, or do you think
he's guilty of so-called AI washing? Let
me know in the comments below. Elsewhere
this week, Anthropic has released three
new capabilities for Claude managed
agents that help autonomous systems work
more effectively without human
oversight. Dreaming is a scheduled
review process that analyzes past agent
sessions and memory to identify patterns
of things like recurring mistakes,
converged workflows, and team
preferences. It restructures memory to
keep it high signal as agents accumulate
experience, enabling self-improvement
across different sessions. So, you can
control whether dreaming updates memory
automatically, or requires your approval
first. Next is outcomes, and outcomes
define success criteria as a rubric. So,
a separate grader evaluates the agent's
output against your standards in an
isolated window, and then services
specific gaps if corrections are needed.
The agent iterates until the work meets
your bar. This works for objective
requirements, so things like file
formats and completeness, and also for
subjective criteria like brand voice and
design guidelines.
Anthropic says that internal testing
showed 10-point improvements in the
success of tasks with an 8.4% gain on
Word documents and a 10% gain on
PowerPoint files. And third is an
improvement to multi-agent orchestration
that lets a lead agent break complex
work down in parallel tasks, and then
delegate each of these to specialist
agents with custom models, prompts, and
tools. Specialists share a file system
and contacts, enabling the lead agent to
check progress mid-workflow. Full
tracing in the Claude console shows what
each agent did and why. And Anthropic
says companies have already started to
make use of these three new features,
citing the likes of Harvey and Netflix.
Harvey, it says, uses dreaming so agents
can carry knowledge between sessions,
and the result was a roughly 6x
improvement in completion rates. And
Netflix built an analysis agent to
process logs across hundreds of builds
from different sources. Multi-agent
orchestration, it says, lets Netflix
analyze batches in parallel and filter
out the noise. And speaking of new agent
features, Spotify also released a new
feature this week designed to be used by
agents called Save to Spotify. So, this
lets you connect your tools like Claude
code to Spotify to allow you to generate
podcasts from any source and then store
it in your Spotify library. Spotify has
suggested some use cases things like
daily briefs, where it looks at your
calendar, the weather, and podcast
recommendations for the commute, study
aids, and learning series, which is
where you get a progressive weekly deep
dive on a topic pulling from your
personalized notes and saved articles.
Now, this doesn't actually generate the
audio for you, so you still have to use
external services like 11 Labs for that,
but it does provide the pipeline to pull
from your sources and then store them
directly in your library.
So, the CLI is quickly becoming a place
where product teams are increasingly
starting to experiment with new ideas,
and I'm not sure if this will catch on
without the audio generation, but the
idea of a podcast creation-on-demand
tool is pretty interesting. And Spotify
is increasingly adopting experimental
approaches to AI, and if you're
interested in learning more about how it
uses natural language interfaces across
its APIs, then check out this week's
deep dive over on Substack, where I
explore how the company is using natural
language interfaces to help its
customers build campaigns, as well as
over 30 other different examples of how
product teams are integrated and
analyzed throughout their UX.
Elsewhere this week, Google Docs now
lets users set persistent custom
instructions for Gemini that
automatically apply across all future
interactions. So, instead of repeating
preferences like use bullet points or
keep it professional in every prompt,
users can input these rules once in the
Gemini side panel, and then Gemini
remembers these and follows these
instructions across all future
conversations within that document. So,
for product teams, you could use this
for things like your brand voice
guidelines to ensure things like your
release notes always match your
product's tone of voice. So, I'll pop
the link to that in the description, so
check that one out if you're interested
in customizing Google Docs with Gemini.
And if you're looking for a place to
store your product's context outside of
tools like Google Docs, here's a new
product that I came across this week
that you might be interested in, and
this is called Canvas. And I hope I'm
pronouncing that right, but Canvas is a
centralized hub where product teams can
connect and build on product context.
So, rather than being a place where you
just dump outputs,
so specs, PRDs, meeting notes, this is
designed to be a place where the
reasoning behind those outputs compounds
over time. So, the idea here is that an
AI working in that context gets
progressively more useful because it has
specific relevant context to work with.
This product is open source, so I'll pop
the link to that in the description if
you're interested in that. And finally
this week, we'll end with some data that
violates the so-called SAS apocalypse
narrative. This week Atlassian revealed
that revenues grew 32% to 1.8 billion in
its latest quarter, accelerating from
23% growth in the previous quarter.
Their CEO also revealed that customers
who use their AI assistant Rovo actually
generate twice the annual revenue
compared to non-users. So, that's a
pretty positive story coming out of one
of the companies that were hit pretty
badly in the SAS apocalypse narrative.
And another company that was hit badly
as part of that narrative was Figma. And
despite fears over the disruptive
effects of AI on that company, Figma was
actually named one of the fastest
growing companies in Ramp's latest AI
tools report. And this only uses data
from Ramp's customers, but assuming that
Ramp's customer profile is reasonably AI
native, this indicates that those
companies are not ditching Figma in
favor of other AI tools. On that more
positive note, we'll end it there for
this week. I'll pop the links to all of
the relevant updates in the description.
And if you enjoy the channel, then don't
forget you can also give us your
precious hype points, which help boost
the channel's presence across the
algorithm, too. So, thanks very much for
listening and watching. I'll be back
next week with another briefing.
