Let's talk about a specific deal.
Coreweave has really struck the
imagination of Wall Street in so many
ways. It's down today, but really it's
up more than four times since its IPO.
It's incredible. This is a company that
you lent to that there were a lot of
questions about the capital structure
heading into the IPO, yet it's kind of
blown people away. What does that say
about the next set of private
equitybacked debt heavy IPOs around the
corner? I think I mean the core weave
transaction was interesting for us
because it was a GPU financing in fact
in fact first of its kind in terms of
back in July of 23 developing a solution
for these companies to buy more compute
power and ultimately we did a GP
financing for coreweave to essentially
buy thousands tens of thousands of
Nvidia chips to ultimately deliver that
compute. I do expect more of those type
of transactions because if you believe
in this massive AI revolution to be able
to for the hardware and the
infrastructure to support that we as
tech ops and more broadly as Blackstone
can be the if you will selling the picks
and the axes in the respect of this AI
gold rush. So to your point in that
theme around AI digital infrastructure
it is I think a quite positive place to
be in terms of capheavy businesses where
we could finance into that growth. I
want to switch gears for a second, get
your view on something else you're
working on over at Blackstone. You're
one of the main people that's making it
possible for a broader amount of
investors to get into private equity.
This has been long an institutional
business and Blackstone and everyone
else is trying to figure out how to make
it more retail friendly. How far can
that go? And is there demand right now
given, you know, the volatility we're
seeing in markets, the high rates, the
concerns around private equity? What are
you seeing?
uh we think it could be massive and uh
the backdrop for us is you know for over
a decade we've been seeking kind of to
deliver solutions for individual
investors recognizing that individual
investors should get the same benefit of
private markets that institutions have
gotten for decades which is to say
better returns over cycles more
diversity bigger investable universe all
of those should be available to
individual investors so we've been
thinking about solutions for those
individuals for a long time we've done
this in real estate and credit we
recently recently launched our private
equity strategy for individual investors
about 18 months ago and uh we have been
enthusiastic about it and we think
increasingly individuals are
enthusiastic about it because again the
investable universe and just the
diversity I think lends itself to what
they want and I think here to four what
they've lacked is accessible products
and so we've developed those accessible
rods so we do think this is a massive
trend and it will only grow and we're
going to kind of continue to develop
solutions for those individuals Awesome.
