[Music]
Hi everyone, I'm Nicola Tangan, the CEO
of the Norwegian Sovereign Wealth Fund
and today we are exploring one of
history's most pressing questions, the
rise and fall of great civilizations.
Because there are so many things that we
can learn from the past and today I'm
here with Yuan Norberg, author of the
newly released book which I just loved
called Peak Human, what we can learn
from the rise and of all of Golden Ages.
Now Yuan, you have studied golden ages
throughout history from ancient Athens
to the modern Anglosphere and that's
what we're going to zoom in on today. So
Yuan, warm welcome. Thank you very much.
Let's start with the beginning. What is
a golden age?
>> Yeah, I'm glad you asked. Golden age is
something that's often defined in
retrospect afterwards, which is a little
bit sad. So, it's often subsequent
generations who look back at the past
and say, "Wow, they really had something
impressive going."
>> And you never see it when you're in it.
>> Sometimes you do. Um, but it's easier
afterwards because it's about a
combination of cultural creativity,
scientific discovery, technological
innovation, and economic growth. And so
it's really a large number of
innovations and new discoveries in many
different fields of human experience at
the same time. That's
>> so um the plan today is to really focus
in on the anglosphere which is basically
we are kind of in the middle of it or
potentially towards the end of it and
then we're going to compare some of the
signs we're seeing here with what's been
going on earlier in history. So
Angloair, what is that?
>> Sounds great.
>> What is Anglo Fair? Well, I I'm what I'm
thinking of here is um a starting point
in Great Britain and the industrial
revolution after the enlightenment and
the scientific enlightenment, the un
unleashing of wealth on a dramatic scale
and simultaneously the creation of
liberal democracy and of checks and
balances on on governments and how that
was later transplanted into the um into
North America and how America has not
just become a sort of a limited
regionally golden age, but also after
the Second World War, how it's been the
protector and the guardian of a global
world order, a more rules-based world
order than we're used to in history. Uh
more of open seas and free trade rather
than gunboat diplomacy. That's what I'm
thinking. And in terms of previous
golden ages that we are looking at uh
Greece, Rome, the caliphat stone
dynasty.
>> Yeah. So, so they they were impressive
uh but they were regionally based. uh
which meant that when they fell when
Rome collapsed at least in 476 when the
last western Roman emperor fell that was
in a way the end of civilization because
all that knowledge was lost and had to
be rediscovered again 1,000 years later
in order to to get it the Baghdad
caliphate was all when that was over it
was all gone the difference this time
around it's is that this is a global
civilization for the first time we're
spreading ideas, knowledge, technology
across borders and that makes a great
difference. The Dutch also had a good
period. They were quite impressive. It's
a very unlikely golden age in the se
16th and 17th century when they were up
against the mightiest empire on the
planet, the Spanish Habsburgs, who
basically owned Europe and they were
just some eccentric um entrepreneurs and
merchants in in the north western
periphery. and they had nothing, not
even land on which to stand. But that
forced them to become innovative. So
they became incredibly innovative when
it came to the economy, but also when it
come came to art, the philosophical
enlightenment and so on. So the really
cool thing here is that we're going to
compare what we're seeing today with
what we've seen in the past. Generally
speaking, how do golden ages end?
>> They end when we shift mentality.
Obviously, you can see lots of dangerous
horsemen of the apocalypse here and
there of famine, uh, climate change, the
plague, war, and so on. But that happens
a lot throughout history, and it doesn't
really mean the end of civilizations
>> because you can rebuild cities. Uh, you
don't lose knowledge like that. But
often times those disasters led to a
change of mentality. So instead of this
um what the Athe Greek historian Tidus
talked about as an Athenian mindset of
going out into the world and explore and
learn something new and acquire new
things, you shift to a more Spartan
mentality where you stay at home to try
to protect what you've got. This is
often how golden ages end. You lose that
cultural self-confidence. You try to
protect yourself and what you've got and
then you lose that because you have to
regenerate it with new innovations and
new knowledge.
>> Are we at the end of our golden age now
or are we seeing signs?
>> Well, I'm worried. That's one of the
reasons why I wrote this book. I can see
many troubling signs ahead. I think
we've shifted to that spot and mentality
in the past two decades or so partly as
a result of many global
worrying things we've experienced
>> such such as so briefly mentioned some
of them and we'll we'll unpick them.
>> Well, you know the the global financial
crisis of 2007 and 8 I think uh shifted
minds. I think the pandemic made us
worried about the world. Endless wars in
the Middle East and then Putin's
invasion of Ukraine,
terrorist attacks, migration crisis. All
these things combined with a sense,
especially in the west, that other parts
of the world are now more innovative and
empowered than we are. All of this
combines to make us a little bit more
worried and then we stay at home more
often than we should. You say that um
external threats often trigger internal
responses that then actually cause the
decline. What do you mean by that?
>> Yeah, external threats is is a given. We
always face external threats from
plagues to geopolitical tensions and and
natural disasters. Um but we can often
handle them if we acquire knowledge,
technological capacity and wealth. But
what often happens is that we react
instinctively as individuals but also as
societies to threats. In a way, it's
kind of a societal collective
fightor-flight instinct rather than
grappling with the problems. We try to
flee from problems and build walls and
tariff barriers or fight against them,
find scapegoats um and um and to arm
ourselves against the the problems. and
and that sometimes means that we we lose
that innovative spirit that could have
given us the tools to deal with the
problems. Now we're seeing some um
reversals of globalization uh happening
in the world now. What what does that
mean? What could that lead to?
>> Yeah, this is the thing that worries me
the most. If there's one thing that
golden ages have in common is that they
they imitate quite a lot. It it's very
difficult to come up with something
brand new in the world, but it's much
easier if you're open to the ideas of
others. If you learn from their
experiences, from merchants, migrants,
missionaries from other places, that's
how we keep on going and constantly
rejuvenate our societies. But this fear
of the world uh fear of um international
supply chains and other things have
meant that we we want to stay at home.
We want to repatriate supply chains. We
want to someone to avoid free trade
completely. And in that case what
happens is that we hurt ourselves
because we we lose access we deny
ourselves access to the brains of other
people uh to the hard work and goods and
services and the intermediary goods of
others and that will make us less
innovative and uh less competitive. Now
you say in your book that if a strong
power steps down that the countries it
has protected can turn against it.
Subsequently,
what does that mean?
>> Yes, this is the historical rel
geopolitical relationship. If there's a
strong power, it's often a bully and
people want to protect themselves
against it. They might subject to it,
but they use any opportunity to get back
at it if that power is threatened.
That's what we've seen historically from
China to the Abisid Caliphate to
different Greek hedgeimons. Uh the
difference this time around with the
Americanled world order is that that has
been more a rules-based liberal world
order where America obviously it's been
a bully at times that happens when
you're the hgeimon but more often it's
tried to protect a set of rules that
makes it possible for others to also
grow and to trade and to become
prosperous. countries like Sweden,
countries like uh all European
countries, East Asia, many Latin
American countries and that has meant a
decisive shift in geopolitical
relationships so far at least that they
realize that it's in their interest to
protect this world order because they're
afraid that uh if America is not there
to protect this um this rules-based
order, there might be another bully and
in in the top in the lead and uh and
that will be much worse.
>> Now um just uh unpacking a bit what you
said about globalization. So why has
immigration been so important for golden
ages to arise? I think one important
reason is that innovation is hard. It's
difficult to think outside the box. We
don't want to do that because it's hard
work. It's uncomfortable and it's risky.
We never know if it'll work. So most
societies try to stick to the script if
they find a way to to survive and and
get on. So we need a constant input from
others. We often get it from trade and
from our business trips just finding
something else uh new elsewhere. But
migrants have been incredibly important
because it increases the chance of
serendipity, surprises because you
suddenly rub up against strangers who
have a completely different way of
looking at things, different
experiences, different knowhow. And when
they suddenly look at your business
models, your technologies, the consumer
demand, they come up with new ideas. And
that's why there's a pattern that
strangers um immigrants are often much
more innovative and they get more Nobel
prizes than than locals do.
>> They do. Uh now what parallels can you
draw? I mean to which other empires can
you draw comparisons when it comes to
this? Oh,
basically all all of them. But if you
want a very a perfect example is ancient
Rome which was in a way built according
to mythology by Romulus
by inviting everyone to Rome because
they had to inhabit their their hills.
Uh so they invited um uh immigrants and
even smugglers and and criminals and
refugees from everywhere and uh on their
asylum on top of the um the ancient
Roman hill over there and that's where
we get our word for uh asylum. So Rome
became famous in their own mythology in
their own set of ideas as the place
where we constantly acquire absorb new
peoples and new ideas from elsewhere.
Sometimes they do did that in a very
brutal way by conquering other people.
But they also said that it is incredibly
important unlike many other powers to be
able to defeat people and integrate them
during the same day basically because we
have so much to power to get from
>> what what happened when they started to
restrict this. Well, one thing that
happens is that uh you suddenly shop off
uh that access to new ideas to that
input that you need to to constantly
grow richer. This is one lesson that
they so early on from many Greek city
states how they were much more hesitant
to um accept new entrance, new
immigrants into their power. So slowly
they declined and lost people. They lost
manpower but they also lost that sense
of
doing something new. So Sparta for
example became a smaller and smaller
city state and in the end they couldn't
even put up men on the on the war fields
because they they didn't integrate more
people.
>> Tariffs is uh is kind of fashionable in
parts of the world just now. Now you
write about Song China and you say that
part of the reason for the downfall was
increased freight barriers. Now how
would you could you explain that?
>> Yes. Um, China is u one of the most
powerful examples of the benefits of
free trade and one of the um strongest
lessons in failure when you when you
block that because the Song dynasty
around roughly a thousand years ago
became prosperous by being open
eternally but also outwardly. So they
learned new technologies and they um
built incredible wealth. Some economic
historians talk about how they were
almost about to start an industrial
revolution 500 years before the Brit
British did. However, after a period of
turbulence and civil strife, there was a
new dynasty, the Ming dynasty, who took
power and they promised stability
instead. And they thought that
stability, one way of building
getting back to a better go good old
days was to restrict international
trade. And they were they were um much
more hardcore than our uh present day
protectionists. So they basically burnt
their entire worldleading Armada. They
burnt the map to make sure maps to make
sure that no one repeated the example
and they put the death penalty on
international trade and they got
stability and stagnation for 500 years.
So the richest country on the planet
became a desperately poor country after
that anti-globalization revolution.
>> What about Venice? an incredible example
of how trade creates um wealth and even
the Renaissance by trading with with
everyone. Um uh trading even with the
infidels, trading even with the Muslims,
something that the pope didn't like, but
the Venetians said that trade should be
free even to the gates of hell. Uh which
is a very powerful free trade slogan.
and they became an incredibly wealthy um
city state and so did the other trading
uh Italian city states. But also then
again, you could see how it began to
break down when they lost those trade
routes in times of warfare, in times of
religious war and uh and more barriers
to prosperity and what used to be the
most open cities became involved in um
more repressive and protectionist
strife. What is strategic tolerance?
Strategic tolerance is doesn't mean
being nice and kind and open to other
people's because you're a decent uh
humanitarian dog good liberal. It means
you do it like the ancient Romans did in
order to um become more powerful in a
way in order to beat people up and take
their stuff. They understood and they
had learned this from many others from
Alexander the Great and sometimes from
the Persians who understood that the
best way to acquire new knowledge,
technological capacity, better tools of
warfare. You have to be open to it. When
you go to new places, don't try to ruin
it all. Try to acquire what they have.
Try to learn if they have something
better. So Montescu the great
enlightenment philosopher said that the
reason why the Romans became the the
masters of the world was that they
quickly abandoned their own ideas,
methods and traditions when they
acquired something new and better
elsewhere. And in a way that's what we
do in a global civilization. We
constantly learn is is there a better
way of uh of producing steel or uh
create a large language model elsewhere.
That's strategic tolerance. You're open
to new ideas because you know it makes
you powerful.
>> Political instability. Now um you write
about uh how increased polarization
contribute to a collapse of a golden
age. What for first of all why do we why
do we get polarization and why does it
contribute to the collapse?
>> Well you know we can be polarized in
different ways. uh some polarization
might not be that bad if it means that
we look at things from different vantage
points. In a way, our confrontational
systems in the in the legal sphere and
in the media and in politics means that
we we see more things because um we all
have confirmation biases and the best
way of uh acquiring more knowledge is to
actually listen to your opponent a
little bit more ideas on the table.
However, polarization can become so
radical that you don't listen. You're
just confrontational and you
>> and we seeing that many places in the
world, right?
>> I think we do. I think we've uh we've
stopped listening because we think we
have the one true way and in that
>> and why is that so bad for our society?
>> Because it might mean that we just stick
to the script without being um open to
to others. And again, this is not
something we do to be kind and nice.
It's some it's strategic tolerance. It's
something we do in order to be better
and to improve ourselves. If your ideas
are based on reality, and they should
be, if you want to build everything from
a a better intellectual understanding of
the world to better business models to
greater technology, it has to be reality
based. And in that case, you have to
listen to your opponents because if what
they say is a little bit painful because
it seems like they've got a point. They
help you out. They teach you how to
become a a better smarter person, a
better smarter business. So, if we stop
listening to our opponents, we'll we
shoot ourselves in the foot. What about
if you um have questions and problems
with the academic institutions or the
legal system? Have we seen examples of
that of that in history?
>> Yeah. I you know I I often talk about
how um to define the end of a golden age
is when you have the when you really
know that you're about to lose it all.
That's the death to Socrates moment.
When you
>> What What is a Socrates moment? It it is
it's named after the greatest Athenian
philosopher Socrates who constantly
pested people with questions and forcing
them to think more and harder about
difficult questions and obviously that
was a little bit painful
because it's difficult to think outside
the box. Um but he did Athens a great
favor. But during the pelpeneisian wars
when there were times of strife and and
and problems,
Socrates became the scapegoat and the
Athenian democracy sentenced him to
death uh for his teachings. And so if
even the intellectually open Athenians
can do that it tells you that we can all
end up in such a situation becoming fed
up with our openness, we try to find
scapegoats. try to instill some sort of
intellectual
orthodoxy and this happens at the end of
many golden ages when we we don't want
to listen to the outsiders. We want to
have some a more pure system. We want
more in intellectual orthodoxy. I think
we've seen this at um at many
universities how speakers, teachers
who've tried to provoke students have
been shouted down and even thrown out of
of campus in a in a problematic um kind
of a leftist woke uh mentality. Now we
see it from the other side where the
sort of the nationalist right is trying
to push back but instill their own
orthodoxy and force all the scholars to
think in the same way and remove all the
words that seem uh problematic from
their perspective and uh and this is a
sign that we um should be worried
because this might mean that we're
losing that pluralism that helps us to
think further. In which cases have you
seen attacks on the legal system and
quality of information these kind of
things?
>> Well, when it comes to um we can see
that many uh democracies have we've seen
more of a majoritarian struggle. someone
gets power and wants to name the media
as the enemy of the people but also the
legal system and to try to undermine the
checks and balances the division of
power that we've got. If you look at
international ratings, countries like
Turkey and Hungary have declined
dramatically in terms of the
independence of legal institutions and
of media freedom.
>> Have we seen it historically in other
places?
>> Oh, for sure. This is uh
I mean the golden ages that I look at
are not any perfect democracies in any
way uh because it's a fairly new concept
with liberal democracy but they've all
had some sort of a restraint on the
arbitrary rule of the uh of the powerful
and that has been incredibly important.
Sometimes it's come from the uh system
of law. Sometimes it's come from
different guilds that have had power and
restrain then the ruler. And that's
important because then you um
expand the possibilities of having more
voices. It's more difficult for one
emperor to set all the standards, all
the rules and to uh uh to force him to
have a set of rules that makes it more
predictable. you know that you can
invest long-term in the future in new
exotic eccentric ideas or business
models and you it might pay off in the
long term and he might not be able to
undermine it all or to steal expropriate
everything from you. But at the end of
golden ages what happens is that they
they are the rulers they don't like that
they don't want any anybody else to have
a say in those systems and they want it
all for themselves. Is that what you
call a strongman?
>> Yes, that's right.
>> Tell tell us about it. What is it?
>> You know, in times of trouble, we all
want someone to protect us. We have this
sense that someone should guide us and
help us out. And and at that time, some
people someone powerful often presents
himself saying that I've got a solution
to all your problems. I can fix this.
And um the late Roman emperors, they
presented themselves more like uh
royalty and undermining all the checks
and balances. We see that even in
tolerant places like uh the Dutch
Republic in the 17th century in when
they were more geopolitically um exposed
French and English um invasions. At the
same time, people wanted the startolder,
the de facto prime minister to acquire
more power. So, William of Orange, he he
didn't object. So, he began to undermine
the independent universities, the
independent um local rulers and
independent institutions and acquire all
power for himself. The problem then of
course is that you then you get yourself
surrounded with yesmen. you're
surrounded by people who only say what
you want to hear and that makes you more
vulnerable to um your own um prejudice
and rather than listening to contrary
information.
>> In which periods have you seen
legitimization of corruption in the
past? There's a little bit of corruption
in every society,
but but the best societies have worked
hard to try to create more transparency
so that um the corrupt are more exposed
and that others uh look into it and that
there's a system of law that makes it
possible to
to punish wrongdoers. And this is
something that uh has been incredibly
important in opening up economies to uh
others than the incumbents, others than
the politically um uh connected.
But there's always this tension, always
this struggle where those in power
try to help their own friends out a
little bit. And um that's what you get
in the decline phase of many golden ages
when this becomes more the rule than the
exception. So for example, you see this
um in the um the end of the Chinese
golden era, the um Chinese emperors
begin to think that a cheaper, quicker,
better way of um funding of the whole
military is to just give them power over
the economy and hand them um some powers
of taxation, giving them specific
monopolies, giving um uh control over
bits and parcels of of land. And again,
this means a centralization where you
limit new ideas to a specific set of
incumbents. And that makes it difficult
to be innovative because most new ideas
come from the outside. It comes from the
eccentrics, from the rebels who try and
test something new. And that's difficult
when corruption becomes um legitimized.
Yuan, you have also written another book
called Open, which I also happen to
think is really really great.
>> Thank you.
>> Um um and um um you talk about the
importance of being open as a as a human
being, as a kind of a company,
corporation, and then as a country. And
I was just wondering whether you could
perhaps just uh unpick it a bit. Um why
is it important for people to be open? I
these are kind of naive questions, but I
just love to hear what you how you
phrase it. No, it's a great question
because it's hard work to be open
because we're all very we're all very
comfortable where we are and with the
places we're going to
>> um the problem is that we restrict
ourselves then to to those things. Uh
>> you might be the smartest people in the
room but the room is always very small
and and most of the new ideas most of
the new technologies are being developed
elsewhere. So if you want to continue to
thrive as a business or as a society or
even as an individual, you have to go
outside of your comfort zone.
>> Let's start with the individual. So um I
heard you say some somewhere that uh you
you love every time you change your mind
because it means that you have been open
to new ideas.
That's how I I try to uh tell myself
that it's
>> and I thought and I thought about it
myself and actually it's kind of uh it's
pretty it's pretty nice to change your
mind if the facts are backing up and out
of you. Right.
>> It's right.
>> How how often do you change your mind?
>> Um
too too seldom. I'm I'm sure because we
we're also loyal to our ideas and our
conclusions and and that's a good thing
not to give it up, but we should always
realize that we suffer from confirmation
bias. We're so comfortable when we find
new bits and pieces of information that
fits with what we already thought. But
that tells us that we should be worried.
That's why we have to teach our
ourselves this intellectually that it's
a good thing when we find things that
don't fit in because it means that we've
seen more parts of the world than what
we saw already. So I'm telling myself
intellectually it's a good thing to
change my mind. And that's one reason
why I I listen to my opponents. I read
books that I don't agree with and I
write it down every time I learn
something that I don't like because I
think that's strategic tolerance. I'm
being an ancient Roman. I I make myself
stronger when I do that.
>> What about at the kind of uh company
level or corporation level?
>> Why is it important for our company to
be open?
>> Well, we're all very loyal to our
business models. we we should be we
should fight for them and and make sure
that they they work out. But the problem
then of course is that um if you look at
technology history and if you look at
business history,
nothing was in the blueprint. Almost no
great idea started out in that
particular version. They all started out
differently. Um, I mean, YouTube was
originally supposed to be an online
dating video uh app and 10 cent was
supposed to be a chat program.
If you're open to new ideas, you learn
from the feedback. You learn from the
innovation that goes on in other sectors
and in other businesses. You learn what
works and what doesn't work. That's how
you thrive through trial and error,
constant feedback, and constant
adaptation. And that's how you improve
your business model as well. Uh because
otherwise there's this risk that your
confirmation bias and your loyalty to
what you originally came up with is um
is your way to ruin. We have to learn to
quit as well when we learn something new
and better. Interesting. We had um the
founder of Pixar on um on the podcast
and he said that uh in the beginning
they were just open with all their
ideas. They shared them freely and
somebody said, "Hey, why do you want to
share your your secrets? Makes no
sense." But it basically led to them
getting so many people applying to work
in the company that it was like a huge
positive and we see that as a firm I
think uh or as a fund you know we are
the most transparent fund in the world
and I always thought that hey that's a
great idea because now the outside world
can see what we do and it's good for
trust and so on but
I think I increasingly realized that
it's also very very good for us because
it makes us you know it makes us more um
open to ideas coming from the old side.
I think the technology absorption that
we are doing now uh and applying new
technologies and new ways of doing AI
and so on, we would not have done it if
we had been a closed up uh shop, you
know.
>> Yeah.
>> So I can um I can really see it.
>> I I think that's an incredibly important
point and I've realized that as an
author as well. Once upon a time, I
thought I should keep my best ideas
secret because, you know, and then
develop them and then I'll write a book
and everybody will love it. Well, the
problem is that they might not care for
your book that much and I haven't
developed my ideas to the extent that I
should. So, I began to share some ideas
uh openly on social media and elsewhere.
And then I learned two things. Uh first
of all I learned uh and I think this is
very similar to your fund. First of all
people are interested. They get engaged
with what is going on. They find that
this they want to follow my work and
they uh they might even read my book
eventually. But also they give me
feedback. They tell me when I'm wrong.
They tell me if they have an example
that fits with my perspective and that
helps me to develop my own idea. So
openness is a constant dialogue I think
with the rest of the world and that's
something that if you give away your
best ideas people will ex give their
best ideas in exchange and that will
help you tremendously.
>> Absolutely. The give and take concept of
for instance Adam Grant and so on. Now
so that's uh that's people as
individuals. it's uh companies,
corporations, countries. Why is it
important for countries to be open?
I think that
every country um no matter regardless of
size, regardless of where we are and
what resources we've got um needs to
constantly develop its own resources,
its human capital and uh its economy.
How do you do that?
Innovation. Coming up with something
that didn't exist in the world is the
most difficult thing there is. So what
I've learned is that nations prosper
from imitation and innovation. You need
lots of ingredients to start creating
new dishes. And you get most of these
ingredients by looking elsewhere,
looking at other places. This is one
reason why most great civilizations have
been maritime cultures. They've been
trading nations. They've constantly
gone out to other places. They don't
just pick up goods and services. They
also see other experiences, other ways
of life, which means that they realize
that there are other ways of doing
things than what we have been doing back
home. And that sets minds racing. So you
get those ingredients and then you can
start cooking. uh that's the innovation
part of it. If you have more ingredients
on in the kitchen, you can then combine
them in new and unexpected ways and you
do that by being open both to outsiders
and open internally so that you let more
people have a go in exploring and
testing all those ideas. So why so why
why does it go in cycles? Why do uh
countries go through these open and
closed apart from perhaps the last one
we'll talk about but
>> why do most of them go through these
cycles?
>> I think that's because we have that
cycle within ourselves. I think it's
there in human nature. Um and how how
does that work?
>> Because we need both of them. We need to
be open to have a reason to I mean get
out of the cave and explore, find
something new.
>> So why do we then close down again?
Because we also have to be a little bit
sensitive that the outside world might
be dangerous. It might be that you end
up in a strange place where there are
people who don't want your have your
best interest at heart. So I think the
reason why human beings have come so far
for 300,000 years is that we were open.
We explored and we exchanged. We found
new partners and new resources. But we
were also very sensitive when we
realized that there's a raiding band or
there are predators out there. And then
we immediately had to retreat. So we
needed both those things. Both the
Athenian going outwards and the Spartan
going home.
>> But the Anglophere the Anglosphere
openers has lasted for a long time.
>> It has. How long? And I think I think
it's lasted since 1688 since the
glorious revolution in when the um which
was really not just a an English
revolution but a Dutch invasion of
>> And do you think it would last? Well,
you know, um the the thing is we
societies also have this thing where
they want to retreat and isolate
themselves. Unfortunately, it doesn't
help us as much as it might have done
evolutionary speaking because nowadays
if we retreat we lose access to those
technologies, ideas, the wealth that
helps us to go there. What has made the
Anglosphere which sort of the broader
Anglosphere and I would count all
liberal democracies as sort of honorary
members of this Anglosphere. What has
kept it open for so long is that it has
been more global, more competition
between different places. So we realize
we have more people to learn from, more
countries to learn from and we also have
to learn from them in order to thrive in
this competition. So it doesn't benefit
ourselves to go home. Now, this time
might be different because because this
time around it seems like America is fed
up with this American world led world
order partly for good reasons. They
think that they've been
exploited in a way by Europeans and
others who've uh outsourced their
military defense and much of this world
order to them. And um but there is a
risk that we have this overcorrection
where Americans go home and hurt
themselves because they prosper in this
world order as well from um having this
huge
world economy of lots of smaller powers
that want to help them to keep this
world order going. So my question right
now is will Europe uh will East Asian
democracies, Latin American trading
nations do their bit and step up and
step in uh to keep things like the World
Trade System and the World Trade
Organization going, the rules-based
order, the open seas going in that if
that happens, we might have a chance
otherwise I'm worried. How important is
peace? It's incredibly important because
um nothing undermines u long-term
thinking like not knowing what happens
tomorrow if um if your country if your
life your security your economy your
crops will be ruined tomorrow. So um all
these golden ages that I've looked at
obviously there's been some war involved
but they've been able to create
relatively peaceful systems where people
have been able to think long term. The
olive branch is the symbol of peace and
that's because olive trees take a long
time. In ancient Greece, the uh
cultivators of olives, the and the olive
merchants, they always wanted
negotiations and peace talks instead of
war because they knew that it would take
them some 20 years for these trees to
bear fruits. So peace is important not
just for life but for prosperity as
well. Human psychology um you say that
history doesn't repeat itself but human
behavior does. So what is it with human
behavior that repeats itself?
>> Yeah, I think that what repeats itself
is both our curiosity and uh the
innovative parts of our our human
nature. We want to accomplish things. We
are excited when we learn new things and
that keeps us going. But the other thing
that repeats itself is the um the fear
uh of um things that are worrying, a
world that seems worrying and uh then
the sometimes um dangerous conclusion
that we should retreat and that we
should isolate ourselves and that the
best way to prosper is to stay at home.
That repeats itself for societies as
well. Uh that's one reason why we often
have these
open eras when we prosper. But in times
of trouble, we we we become a
protectionist. We want a strong man to
protect us. And often that's a
self-fulfilling fear because that then
limits uh our acquisition of new ideas
and of innovations. And that's something
we see again and again. Has this been
particularly pronounced in periods of um
fear for the unknown or do we do you
split between the two? I think fear of
the unknown is a given. Um we have some
sort of human
uh in our human nature we have some sort
of fire detector. I think when something
seems strange and risky, we
alarm bells are ringing and we run away.
Um, it has to be oversensitive
historically.
>> The more and the more known it is, the
faster we run.
>> That's right. That's right. And
historically that has benefited us
because everything that seems worrying
and strange might have been a threat to
our survival. But today we live in a
very different age because now we have
access to information about the whole
world instantly and we live in a social
media world where everything that goes
wrong somewhere in the world is
broadcasted to us instantly. And I think
that our reptilian brains um
they act on this information in in a
faulty way thinking that there are alarm
fire alarms going off everywhere and it
makes us more anxious and worried about
the world and we think that just running
and hiding is the solution and that is
dangerous. Why is confidence important?
Because the confident uh person and the
confident society goes places. They go
out and try to find new things. They if
you don't fear instant loss uh instant
defeat,
you don't worry about finding something
new that is unexpected. You don't worry
about finding bits and pieces of
information that might even go against
your conclusions because you think that
this can benefit yourselves. And this is
how we grow stronger all the time when
we lose that confidence. I mean as an
individual we we stay at home
>> but societies do too and business.
>> Yeah. But I mean a person can lose
confidence pretty pretty quickly. But
what about a nation? Uh what does it
take for a nation to lose confidence?
What kind of process is that?
It takes a longer time but I think that
there are some meta trends that can
undermine our confidence. Um economic
decline uh might undermine our
confidence because suddenly the economy
doesn't seem like a positive sum game
where we can all thrive simultaneously
but a zero sum game and it gets worrying
and we have to protect what we've got
and that's self-fulfilling obviously
because then we don't invest we don't
innovate but not just these instant
shocks I also think that longer term
trends affects our confidence One of
them being losing relative power has a
very powerful effect on our psyche. I
think that is happening right now in the
western world. We used to
>> we are losing to China.
>> Yes. We used to think that for 500 years
we run run the show in a way. Suddenly
we realized that um
new businesses and new cultural
expressions come from businesses and
cities that we can't even pronounce. Uh
not just China, from South Korea, might
come from in Indonesia and Latin
American countries and the biggest
musician in the world is from Puerto
Rico right now.
>> When when would you say that that loss
of confidence started? How long time has
this decline in confidence in the
western world been going on for? I think
it it in a way it started happening when
Japan got uh its economy going for real
until the 1990s. Then we saw those
worrying that worry in the United
States. The Japanese are taking over the
world basically. But then they're kind
of flatlining.
>> That's right. Quite right. So it seems
like all those fears might not uh become
reality. But then China took that
position and especially I think the
financial crisis in 2008
really hurt our our self-confidence and
American self-confidence. Now we think
that China is doing this. Um in a way
this is great. innovation, investment is
hard, but once you've achieved it, we
can all use it. Once upon a time, um
only a few western countries invested in
all that research to come up with new uh
drugs and new communications
technologies and better ways of
extending the lifespan. Now, other
countries do the same thing and uh add
to our pool of uh cultural entertainment
and so on. So if we're open to it and if
we use it in our businesses as well and
and and build upon it, it's a great
thing. But it might undermine our
confidence to the extent that we shut
our minds and our markets to it and then
the only beneficiaries will be them of
course and not us. We will lose out.
Let's say now you see a lot of these
science stacking up, right?
Um how long time does it take before it
has like real impact on the on the
economy on the society on the way we
live? I how how long is this sunset
period? It might unravel very rapidly
for great cultures uh historically once
it doesn't have to because often those
signs troubling signs are there for a
very long time and you might be able to
muddle through and and carry on. But
sometimes if the world loses confidence
in you um loses confidence in the
investment climate in a leading place in
the reserve currency in the say the
independence of institutions like the
legal system or the central bank things
might unravel very quickly. In that
case, capital abandons you quickly and
people, businesses, investors start to
look for alternatives and even nations
start to look for alternatives. When you
look at it historically, I have nations
in decline. Did they have a lot of fun?
Why it declined? I mean, I mean, what I
mean is that, you know, that there is
some great parties in in Venice after it
started to go down, right? Huge
hedonistic lifestyles and so on.
>> That's a good point. if you've acquired
a lot of wealth and and great culture,
uh you might uh enjoy it for a long
time. And I think you know Edward Gibbon
when he wrote about the decline and fall
of the the Roman Empire, he wrote about
the Bantin Empire, how they declined
basically for 1,000 years, but they
still managed to uh to have some some
fun. Um, the problem is that it has to
rely then on
you being able to use some of the new
ideas and innovations that others come
up with. One reason why the Bisantian
Empire could prosper was that they at
least learned from the Abisid Caliphate,
their neighbor and often um enemy in
war, from their science, from their
technology, from their books, and they
could pick it up. So this this might
make this era different because we might
decline relatively for a long time. But
if we're open to
new goods, services, technologies, and
uh great TV series from other places, we
might be able to build a nice uh nice
museum of in declining places, but it's
not as fun as being at the forefront and
constantly discovering and creating
something new. talking of which and uh
finishing off on advice to young people.
Now, you had an interesting personal
journey, right? You founded your own
anarchist party. You ran an underground
nightclub uh uh and so on. Uh and so
given given your experiences, what is
your advice to young people?
Well, um,
building on those experience, I would
say don't be afraid of, uh, doing
eccentric weird things that people might
think are, uh, completely um, hopeless
because even if you fail, you have some
interesting experiences on which to
build. Failing is a great thing. Failing
at things is wonderful as at least if
you admit those failures, admit the
mistakes because then it's a wonderful
way to begin again in a more intelligent
way because the the future is always
unknown and uncharted and the only way
in finding your way is to go out onto
the minefield.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. Yan, this has
not been a failure. It's been a huge
success. It's been tremendously good.
Thank you so much.
>> I think so, too. Thank you very much.
