[Music]
Hi, I'm Christy Townsen, director of
content and research here at Kaya, and
I'm here to talk to you today about
competition for capital. For those of
you who have already read our report,
Innovation Unleashed, the rise of total
portfolio approach, you already know
that there are four legs to basically
implementing TPA. and those are
governance, culture, the implementation
of a factor lens and in my opinion one
of the more important ideas when it
comes to the actual implementation of
the investment program which is comp
competition for capital. So competition
for capital as many of you know is
basically the idea that each unit of
capital invested is required to earn its
place in the portfolio.
This is typically done by ensuring that
each marginal dollar is deployed into
the team's best ideas and based off of
the the uh opportunities available that
also meets the needs and constraints of
the actual investment program. This is
not a groundbreaking or even unique
concept when it comes to investing.
However, in my experience, it can be
tricky to integrate in a way that is
both effective and doesn't leave you
open to unintended risks. So it's kind
of interesting because in the wake of
our report I had a number of peers in
the industry reach out with what I
thought was some really thoughtful
feedback specifically you know one rep
one refrain excuse me that I heard
repeatedly was that a certain level of
how do I say the yeah we follow the
traditional endowment model but we're
also investing in best ideas so how is
that really different from TPA
and I actually understand where this is
coming from because in the endowment
model often the team does actually speak
about best opportunities and best ideas
but really the main difference starts in
how you view view portfolio structure.
So first of all to start um you know
when you think about your investment
process if it's centered around a
specific asset class or bucket with
specific target allocations to each of
those buckets and narrow ranges of any
kind then you've already run a foul of
the total portfolio approach. With that
said, I think that there's a level of
confusion because pure endowment model
investing versus total portfolio
approach can feel like this really stark
black and white binary decision.
However, in my opinion, and while my
take isn't a purist view, I tend to view
the endowment model and TPA on more of a
continuum. So maybe even a ying and a
yang if you will versus that binary
decision. So by this I mean if you look
at at this continuum and you put pure
endowment management on one side. So, as
we generally think about it, that
includes, you know, management of a
large pool of capital invested based on
a strategic asset allocation that's
approved by a board. Hopefully not, but
usually that's based off of data that's,
you know, 30 years backwardlooking.
Um, and you know, beyond that,
uh, the team tends to be siloed. I think
that's another big one. and with a CIO
who owns that con kind of competition
for capital style decision.
In this case, however, investing is done
solely through the lens of asset
allocation. However, and this is the big
caveat that I think confuses a lot of
people, even in this highly endowment
model structured state, many investment
teams, at least in my opinion, the ones
that do it right, still periodically
employ a look through analysis of some
kind to basically drill down beyond
those asset classes and make sure
they're not making those un unintended
bets or risks. In other words, to make
sure that they're what they're actually
holding is in line with that kind of
topline asset allocation risk return
metric. Again, this view may not be
perfect, but then again on that
continuum on the other side, you have
TPA, which invests on that kind of look
through level in my view, and then may
or may not periodically do a top- down
filter through the lens of a more
traditional asset allocation. So again,
to me, no matter which side you're on,
whether that be pure endowment or pure
TPA, you know, wherever you start from,
that analyzing the data through the
other approach, I think is a really
powerful way to cross-check your
portfolio. And thus why I kind of look
at it as a ying and yang.
So with all of that said, I think a lot
of the head scratching from US-based
endowment professionals in particular is
that it's rare to have an organization
that just functions purely under the
endowment model. And by that I mean
they're actually different, you know,
kind of how can I say segments or so um
in that for example t endowments under
$5 billion are typically run by teams
that are smaller. So this requires the
team to have a more generalist unsiloed
approach to investing. Um and their
organizations tend to kind of you know
filter that through to their investment
portfolio decisions. Um so it is pretty
likely that especially on the smaller
endowment side the organization does
feel a little bit more TPA like. So with
all of that said I think that there's a
lot of good takes takeaways you know
kind of wherever you fall on how you
view the spectrum. I think that there
are a lot of great ways to imple
implement um and a lot of great ideas
you could take from TPA um particularly
when it comes to the kind of idea
capital competition within your
organization. So I think one of the
absolute best ways is to follow a more
generalist model. So don't break your
investment team down by asset class and
encourage everyone to really find best
ideas and not just kind of what fits
into their bucket. I think the second is
to make sure that you're regularly
employing a portfolio look through that
goes beyond asset allocation.
And really third and most importantly in
my opinion, endowment leadership needs
to empower their entire team with what
we consider on the US side typically a
more traditional CIO thing, you know,
thought process when it comes to
portfolio construction. I think this is
actually huge from a mentorship
standpoint because it enables your team
to think like a C a CIO which is such a
powerful learning experience early on
and I think only goes to help the
portfolio. So again, I can see where
there are some US-based and
organizations that feel like they're
already kind of doing TPA. Um I think
that this is, you know, kind of mis a
misleading idea if you start anywhere
from asset allocation. However, if you
want to think about being more TPA like
absolutely employ generalist model,
really think about look through analysis
as you're making your decisions and then
again most importantly empower your team
to make the best decision when it comes
to portfolio construction.
[Music]
