Please welcome His Excellency Omar
Sultan Alama, the Minister of State for
AI, Digital Economy, and Remote Work
Applications in the United Arab
Emirates. And Dan Murphy, an anchor and
correspondent at CNBC.
>> Much everyone and good morning again.
What an excellent way to kick off the
conversation here at the Milin Summit.
Dan Murphy with you from CNBC and your
excellency a warm welcome. It's great to
have you here. Thank you. It's uh I
think it's going to be a great
conversation.
>> So, we have so much to talk about with
regards to what is actually happening in
the AI space, what's happening here in
the Gulf, what's happening with all of
this investment. In particular, in the
last few years, what we've seen is the
UAE really moving from talking about
artificial intelligence to deploying AI
at scale across the government and of
course across a whole range of sectors
as well. Just in the last month, also
another major inflection point with the
US approving the export of Nvidia's most
advanced chips to the UAE and to Saudi
Arabia. So to unpack what this means for
the UAE and the wider region and of
course where we stand in the global AI
race, I'm so happy his excellency is
here. So your excellency, set the scene
for us. When you look at the global AI
race today, where does the UAE stand in
what has been a really really incredible
year of growth, but also a year of some
concern as well?
>> Thank you. I think um this has been not
a race, it's um possibly a marathon. Uh
we've been doing this for a long time.
So the UEE has been in this race for
eight years and the pace isn't slowing
down, it's just speeding up. And what
we've seen over the last eight years is
that countries moved from putting big
ambitions in the domain of artificial
intelligence. So the UAE was one of the
first movers. Many other countries
followed suit. But uh it was very big
ambitions that didn't really translate
into anything meaningful. when it comes
to the UAE's um let's say momentum here
the first thing is since 2014 we've
invested over 500 billion dirhams uh in
artificial intelligence so the numbers
are substantial if you look at the kind
of projects that the UAE announced
Stargate um other projects where we're
supporting the development of
infrastructure in the US and in other
countries as well we really are I think
market leaders in terms of our size and
our geography but also we are one of top
players in the world. Now, there are
different ways to gauge whether you are
really at the forefront or you are, you
know, one of the people that are trying
to catch up. If you look at BCG's index
on AI talent flows globally because
talent is what's going to develop this
at the end of the day, um the UAE ranks
first globally in AI talent retention
and third globally in AI talent
attraction. All right? So, these people
can go and work anywhere in the world.
they choose the UAE as one of the top
three destinations um where they they
reside. The second thing when it comes
to um you know AI deployment overall
Stanford ranks the UAE as uh fifth
globally there are certain rankings that
rank us as third. So we are between
third and fifth I think globally for our
size. This means that we are a pace
setter. Uh and I think the larger
countries are going to come to the UAE
because of its agility, its ability to
deploy much faster, the diversity of the
people that are here, the cutting edge
infrastructure. So I think we are going
to be a main player in this race.
>> Milin's theme this year is progress with
purpose. So when you think about the
measurement of all of this, how do you
also ensure that that investment that
you spoke about is ultimately benefiting
people here in the UAE?
>> That that's a great question. Most
people look at AI and they look at
productivity gains, they look at
economic returns. That's great if you
look at, you know, it in a very vertical
sense. So what does it translate to in
terms of savings? We have that metric
for measurement when it comes to energy,
right? So how many barrels of oil are we
producing? How many more barrels of oil
can we produce or how can we reduce the
cost of production using artificial
intelligence? We've had savings so far
of around um 500 million dirhams um you
know that's yearon year but we are
seeing as well much more savings over
time. Um when you look at the broad
sense in which the UAE is actually look
at a AI deployment it's not on
productivity gains or just economic
returns. We're looking at AI for quality
of life improvement. If you look at
improving quality of life, the end
product of that will be productivity
gains and it will be economic returns,
but it will ensure that you will never
go into controversial uses of AI. And
that's what we care about. We don't care
about being the best user of AI but
displacing millions of people. We don't
want to become a surveillance state. We
don't want to become a state where very
few benefit from the deployment of AI
and many people are actually harmed by
it. So when you focus on quality of life
improvement, you ensure that everyone is
set on the right track and that no one
looks at it from just one vertical
perspective. Everyone looks at it
holistically. It's interesting as well
because this year has really been marked
by huge investments in capex on the
infrastructure layer. We're seeing huge
data center buildouts as well. There's a
lot of capacity that's now being
installed. At the same time as well,
public market valuations skyrocketing
stateside. When people like Ray Dalio
say bubble, you say what?
>> I say bubble.
No. Um, so, so it depends on what time
frame you're looking at. So, the.com
bubble was a bubble in that time period,
right? In in the short time scale. And
many people that called the com bubble
were right. Now, if you look at it in
hindsight, the internet wasn't a bubble.
It came back roaring. The largest
companies in the world became internet
companies. and it transformed our lives.
If your time frame was 5 years, then the
word bubble was right. If your time
frame was 20, then the word bubble was
wrong because the numbers today, you
know, are much higher than they ever
were. And in the UAE, we don't look at
short-term horizons. We never did since
our founding. And we never will. We
believe in the long-term horizon,
everything we do. And our planning isn't
for, you know, looking at what's going
to happen next year or the year after.
I'm going to give you a simple example.
Look at the UAE's investments. We
haven't invested in hype. We've invested
in infrastructure. Will people need
electricity infrastructure and energy
infrastructure 10 years down the line?
Absolutely. Will it be necessarily used
for AI? It could be. It could be used
for something else. Most of the
infrastructure we are building is going
to be useful whether there is a bubble
or not. And this is I think the secret.
The secret is we're not looking at the
hype cycle. We're actually looking at
the trajectory of where this is going.
And another great example of how the UAE
thinks. So there were so many
technologies over the last few um
decades that were extremely you know
hype focused. So blockchain for one
point of time was the IT technology. IoT
was the IT technology. Metaverse was the
IT technology. The UAE has not had a
single ministerial portfolio dedicated
to any of those. Right? So there wasn't
a minister of IoT or a minister of
metaverse or a minister of blockchain.
And you actually look back and you say
okay eight years ago the UAE had a
minister for artificial intelligence.
What were they seeing that others
weren't seeing? We were seeing the
trajectory that AI isn't going to be
something that is going to be a fad.
It's been around for more than 50 years.
It's a technology that has slowly but
surely taken over many facets of our
lives. And we as a country want to
ensure that our citizens and our
residents are the best users of the of
the technology, that we wield it to
serve them, and that we ensure that they
have the best quality of life because of
it. But in the short term, you're not
concerned about the sustainability of
the financing of some of these large
scale AI infrastructure buildouts.
>> It absolutely may be about um look to be
honest, I'm not on the investment side.
I think you should speak to the
ministers and say the officials that are
involved in investment. I think long
term um it's not going to be a bubble.
The genie has left the the the bottle.
There's no way that we're going to go
back because of the capabilities we have
today. You're able to answer any
question with a click of a button.
You're able to access so much immense
knowledge and so many capabilities with
agents and otherwise. I don't think
we're going to go back. So from my
vantage point, we're only going forward
right now. Okay. Whether the companies
that are worth 5 trillion today are
going to be worth 5 trillion, you know,
next year, I'm actually not sure. Um
there are fundamentals here. So if the
promise is met and the AI does achieve
abundance then these numbers are
meaningless right it could be 50
trillion tomorrow
>> uh if AI doesn't then these numbers are
overvalued uh I think today it's more or
less a gambit whoever makes a statement
whether it's a bubble or not is you
putting their chips on one side or the
other I don't think that way my job is
to look at the technical deployment of
AI and my job is to look at the
trajectory and the trajectory means that
we're only going to go to more and more
use and more and more deployment.
>> Speaking of chips, it's been a great
year for the Gulf, particularly the UAE
and Saudi Arabia off the back of
President Trump's visit to the region
earlier this year and also the diplomacy
that we've seen between the UAE. Of
course, Saudi Arabia with this White
House, we have now seen Nvidia approved
to sell its most advanced chips to the
region. Obviously, a hugely significant
development when it comes to the UAE's
AI ambitions. Minister, walk me through
what that is going to unlock and what
you think it says about the UAE US
technology investment corridor today.
So, if you look at the UAE's history,
one thing that we take very very
seriously is our credibility. When we
make a statement, we follow through and
with that credibility there's a burden
that sometimes unfortunately you would
make a statement but the control is not
completely in your hands. So we made a
statement that we're going to invest to
create a 5 gawatt facility which is
going to be 10 times the size of Monaco
um called Stargate and the chips are not
produced in the UAE. So we need to work
with partners to have access to the
chips. Now that puts a burden on the UAE
to actually deliver because we take our
credibility very seriously. This step
ensures that we are able to deliver on
that and and you know the US is a great
partner that the UAE has worked with for
over 50 years now. uh what does the road
map look like? The road map is 100,000
H200 equivalent uh GPUs to be deployed
um by May of next year. Uh 200 megawws
uh is the first phase. But over the next
two to three u four years, we're going
to see a huge ramping up to 5 gawatt. Um
why do we want to do that? So the
currency of the future is going to be
tokens. uh tokens that can be used uh
and transformed into insights or
intelligence that will help you in
decision- making that will improve
quality of life that will improve
productivity and otherwise. And we're
trying to reach the capacity of being
able to uh produce a token factory that
produces 60 trillion tokens. Um just to
set the context on this 60 trillion
tokens is around 60% of the the whole uh
production of the world. So we are
really trying to be the world's factory
of intelligence.
>> The world's factory for intelligence.
Extraordinary. Uh 5 gawatt is enormous
though. Um are you certain you'll be
able to get there?
>> Well nothing is certain. I'm not certain
I'm going to wake up tomorrow. So, so I
no one is certain about anything, but
the investment is there. The trajectory
is clear. As long as our partners work
with us, as long as we're able to get
what we need at the right time, then we
are certain. There are so many
fundamentals that need to uh check out.
So, one thing you need to understand,
why did the UAE put a phase out process?
Why is it 200 megawws then, you know,
expanding up to to 5 GW? It's because we
aren't looking at this blindly. We are
going to increase capacity as demand
increases as well. You can create a 5
gawatt facility today. It might be very
lucrative uh deal for you as a country
or or as a company. But we'll also need
to see how the uptake is. There is a lot
of forecasts that people are going to
keep using more and more of these
systems. There are a lot of forecasts
that the uh current infrastructure is
going to be what the future is built on.
But as long as all of these milestones
and all of these requirements continue
to be the way that we're expecting,
we're going to continue to ramp up. It
could be 5 gawatt. It could increase
over time or it could decrease a little
bit over time. But I think from where we
stand today, 5 gawatt is what we're
going to have. It's going to be very
clear. We're going to be able to get to
that point with the with the target that
was set. One of the other themes of the
conference this year is about how we are
in a multi-olar world and it also seems
as if access to this key technology
particularly chips and um the enablement
of artificial intelligence is also now
directly tied to national security. Are
we entering an era where countries are
ultimately being forced to take sides
here? the UAE, for example, firmly in
the US camp, but that's not necessarily
the case for African countries who need
access to cheaper chips, for example,
maybe even from China. Are we entering a
world where countries will be forced to
ultimately make that decision?
>> Let's answer this with a historic lens.
Um [clears throat] if you look at
history um countries and innovation more
broadly gravitated towards the paths
where there was least resistance. So
think about it this way. If the US did
not ban chip exports to China, China
would not have ramped up its ability to
create, you know, high-end chips and be
able to leaprog the way that they did.
So sometimes restriction doesn't
necessarily mean uh a positive, right?
it it might mean a net negative over a
long period of time especially when it
comes to innovation right um and our
view as UAE we are a country that
thrives on globalization we are a
country that works with the world we are
a country that today tries to be a good
partner for everyone whether it's east
or west north or south however if there
are restrictions that are put forward
and if our partners have concerns we
honor their concerns because you know
the best way to be a partner that is
trusted and that is credible is to keep
your world and we keep our world. But if
you're going to tell me what we advocate
for, we always advocate for a world
where we all work together to try to
pursue hopefully um a future that is
positive for everyone.
>> What concerns you the most about the
state of the global AI race today?
>> What concerns me the most is there isn't
much consensus on some of the issues
that really matter. So, I don't know if
you guys um actually have seen this
before or or you probably have. Today,
we're reaching a point where there are
so so many video
clips and content that are so realistic
you you can't actually tell that it's
AI. And it reached a point where it's
really concerning where you look at the
video and you're like, okay, I don't
know what's true. The only way we'll be
able to combat something like this is if
there is a global consensus on what are
the standards, what are the safeguards,
what the infrastructure that's going to
safeguard us against that and what can
be done. Um, no conversation today is
progressing in that domain. So we will
have an erosion of trust and it's going
to be not just critical, it's going to
erode a lot of fundamentals that our
systems are built on. Government is a
system of trust. You know the people
trust the government and the government
is given authority to take certain
actions and to do certain things that
the government thinks is in its or the
people thinks is in their best interest.
If that trust is eroded, what happens?
Money is built on trust. The fact that I
can give you a piece of paper and you
know you think that is value that is
trust. Every single system that we have
in our lives is built on trust. And if
if trust is being eroded, it will mean a
tsunami of change that is going to be
negative. And there is no conversation
today that was progressing because of
this tension. Right? The other issue
that we have is the issue of okay if you
have super intelligence today or let's
say not just super intelligence capable
intelligence chi
Gok and others that allow people to uh
create harm on a mass scale uh you know
biotech weapons
other let's say means of being able to
harm people. um you can try to restrict
the American models. If the US and China
do not work together, there are going to
be issues because the bad actors are
going to gravitate towards Chinese
models or whichever other countries, you
know, uh deploying these models and
actually pushing them out. So, we're not
having enough conversations on the guard
rails. We're not having enough
conversations on what needs to be the
lowest level safety net and then, you
know, letting everyone progress on
whatever they want to progress in. That
is a big big concern. And then finally,
the competition is heating up so much
that u it's actually pricing out most
people from the market. And I'll give
you a simple example here. So the US and
China are competing. The UAE is also
competing in that domain. We're all
competing for the same finite amount of
talent. And most countries and most
companies are paying more and more and
more. That means the cost of developing
these models is going higher and higher
and higher. And because you know you're
trying to restrict people having access
to certain chips that's also increasing
the price of chips it's also you know
increasing the price of these bottles.
So what is happening over time is we are
really going to become a country a globe
where there are halves and have nots. If
you can't get the the money, you can't
get access to the technology. And that
is and I'm talking about the cutting
edge technology. And that is going to be
a concern for continents that today do
not have the resources that countries
like the UEE has or the US or China.
>> Final question here because you also
oversee the remote work and digital
economy portfolio for the investors and
the CEOs in the room who are leading
teams perhaps running big businesses.
What's your current thinking on how AI
is ultimately going to impact jobs and
work over the next three to five years?
And are we heading towards the three
maybe even 4 day work week?
>> Three or 4 day work week. So if you're
in Europe probably
um it seems like it that's what the
trajectory looks like. Um, but I think
at the end of the day, more work means
more progress. So, I think you will have
a choice. However, it doesn't mean that
this is necessarily the direction that
you're going to go in. There are
conversations of uh 4day work weeks. I
think they're very serious in Europe.
I'm not seeing that being as serious in
the US and I don't think it's going to
be applied in Asia just because the um
culture in Asia is people like to work.
So, it depends on where you're you're
at. You're going to see that in terms of
jobs. So the realistic answer is and I
don't want to be the bearer of bad news
but there is going to be job loss and
job augmentation. This is a fact and we
can sugarcoat it. We can beat around
that bush but the reality is this is
what's going to happen. Now what do
governments do about it? What have we
done as a government? We've actually
went and uh did a very in-depth study of
every single job that is going to be
displaced, augmented or impacted. And we
have put a plan of how do you ensure
that all of the people that are going to
go through this job loss have an option.
So if you are let's say 5 years or 3
years close to retirement and your job
is going to be displaced by AI. It
doesn't make sense for me to actually
invest in training you for another job.
I can give you an early retirement. So
it's an option for you to retire early
and you know to live your life. If you
are going into that job today, then I
will pay a substantial amount of money
to reskill you for something that is not
going to be augmented because of AI. And
if your job requires you to upskill
yourself, then we will train you as well
and give you the tools. Overall, um what
is going to happen is I think there will
be a lot of jobs that are created. We
want to ensure that the interim period
between job loss and job creation is a
period of peace rather than peace a
period of turbulence.
>> It's going to be very interesting to
watch. your excellency. I wish we had
more time, but we'll have to leave it
there. Thank you so much for joining in
today.
>> Thank you. [applause]
