[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Dankis. Welcome to NBA Ask
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Lender Price Chief Strategy Officer
Paul Orlando for part four of our
ongoing series with Lender Price. In
parts one, two, and three, we discuss
modern pricing engines, artificial
intelligence, and technologies impact on
ROI. Today, we're chatting about
emerging technological trends,
challenges, and opportunities. Paul,
thank you for joining us today.
>> Adam, thank you for having me and I'm
glad to be here. I'm excited to have our
conversation today and talk about new
things coming through the industry and
uh areas that are actually
um already well entrenched in the
industry.
>> Likewise, Paul, let's do it. What are
the top three technology trends you
believe are currently reshaping the
mortgage industry and how do you see
those innovations evolving over the next
few years?
>> This is a great topic for today. With
all the changes that are happening in
the ind industry, we must look at what
technologies are going to help us be
more successful in the future. The three
areas that I think we should focus on
are AI and machine learning, endtoend
digital mortgage platforms, and
blockchain for the complete mortgage
process.
When thinking about AI and machine
learning, we've all seen the
advertisements on LinkedIn and other
media sources talking about AI and how
this company or that one is taking over
the industry with their AI tool. While
many companies are creating great tools
with AI,
we have to continue to do our research
to make sure that we are finding the
best tool for us and the one that is
going to keep us out of regulatory jail.
When looking at different AI companies,
it's important to know how their
individual tool learns in order to
ensure that you will be protected once
you adopt the technology.
I've been asked by many risk and
compliance teams of late, how is your
tool learning? How do we know that it's
going to have good data and how are we
assured that we will be set for the
future?
Great questions and we always talk
through how our models are learning and
how that protects them in the future.
But as the old saying goes, garbage in,
garbage out. Once a tool starts learning
bad behaviors, it's difficult to stop it
and rely on the information.
At lender price, we are using closed
models that learn off of our client
specific data. That client uploads their
information and our tool then works only
on the information they provide. That
way, if another client uploads
information that is contrary, it doesn't
impact what their individual clients are
seeing. This data is then being used to
help originators explore guidelines,
pricing, and make recommendations based
off of that information. This will help
originators provide their clients with
the best solution for them while also
speeding up the process. It keeps people
in the process. However, it makes their
jobs much easier.
The endtoend digital mortgage platform
is another area that is heavily being
invested in. Right now, companies are
focusing on specific portions of the
process that they are experts in. Some
are looking at the process from
submission to pre-closing.
Others are focusing just on the closing
experience. and still others are looking
at the back-end recordings to make that
process completely digital. What was
once thought of as a fantasy to be able
to have digitally accessible recordings
and title searches throughout the US is
now becoming the norm in the industry.
It does take time for change to happen,
but those companies that focus on it are
really making a difference. If you go
back and look at e-closing back in the
early 2000, companies were closing one
loan or two loans a month and just
getting their feet wet. Over time, it
started growing, but it was very slow in
the process. It wasn't until the pandem
pandemic of 2020 that the industry made
a major shift to e-closings to keep our
business flowing.
As time go on goes on, I am positive
that the LOS providers and the industry
will continue to work to pull all of the
different pieces of the end toend
digital mortgage together with the
appropriate safeguards to ensure
success.
You can see change happening every day
in the industry and the adoption of
these efficiency tools will be more
rapid than in the past as companies are
constantly feeling tighter margins and a
need to reduce overall cost.
The final area that I wanted to talk
about was blockchain.
As we talk about the digital endtoend
mortgage,
blockchain technology must be a part of
that. With blockchain, you can pull
together electronic records that are
certified to be true just by the nature
of the blockchain technology.
A perfect example of this is MS. MS has
been electronically tracking and
transferring servicing rights and notes
since the late 1990s in a manner that
has been proven and trusted throughout
the industry.
As we continue to move forward with
electronic closings and recordings, we
can see how utilizing blockchain for
title will make the overall process
easier.
As each piece of the pie continue to be
electronically validated and verified,
we will be able to provide a safer, more
secure, and more efficient closing for
both our co clients and the
organizations themselves.
>> I really like that, Paul. It's very
fascinating stuff going on in our
industry and very exciting as well. So
with technologies like AI, blockchain,
and big data analytics rapidly
advancing, how do you see these tools
enhancing both customer experience and
operational efficiency for lenders?
>> Great question. And you know, any tool
if it only impacts one area
that that's not the tool that you want.
You want to look for tools that are
going to help yourself and your clients.
If you focus only on what's good for me,
in the long run, that's not what's good
for the industry. So, each of these
technologies that you mentioned can
improve the overall mortgage process and
experience. AI technologies can help the
borrower easily explore different
mortgage options by allowing them to ask
simple questions about the process and
the products. It can also help provide
them with the best option based on the
data they've entered. The final
component of that is to help them find
an originator in the industry that will
match perfectly to what they're looking
for. By asking AI tools this
information,
you're able to provide that quickly and
efficiency for the consumer.
Leonard Price's Ayah tool and AYA stands
for artificial intelligent loan
assistant is doing that for originators
today.
However, in the future, I see that being
able to move that to the front end where
we can put that on our consumerf facing
miniers so that again we can make it
easier for everyone involved.
As more blockchain applications hit the
market, this will help eliminate the
need for clients to provide paper
documentation to verify different
aspects of the mortgage.
While not blockchain technology, the use
of electronic integrations to verify
assets and income has made a huge impact
on the documentation needs of borrowers.
This electronic verification will also
reduce the amount of fraud in the market
since the data is coming directly from
the source. When a borrower is uploading
a paper document to your portal, you
still run the risk that someone has
altered that document and therefore
you've uh interjected fraud into the
market. Blockchain provides reduced cost
to the client
and the organization. efficiency in the
processing of the loan and overall
safety in the process for both the
client and the organization.
Reducing fraud is an important factor
because as fraud cases increase that
increases the overall cost to everyone
in the mortgage process.
Big data analytics is something that has
grown over the last 10 to 15 years.
You're seeing a lot more articles about
that. It's not new technology, but
people are utilizing new tools to use
that against that big data. I think as
organizations continue to look at this
very valuable asset that they have, they
will be able to use it to identify ways
of improving the process and the
services that they provide to clients.
Important areas to focus on in my
opinion would be breaking down the time
it takes a loan to move through each
step of the process to identify areas in
your system that you should look for for
process improvement. You can also use it
to identify trends in your servicing
book to predict potential borrowers that
will have issues and the overall health
of the portfolio. By tying market
movement to payment history, companies
can identify potential clients who might
be at risk and can reach out to them
proactively for help. A lot more effort
has been placed on this since the 2008
meltdown.
When you think about it, it's much
cheaper for you to work with a client
before they get into trouble than once
they're in loss mitigation. Once a
client is in loss mitigation, the cost
to service that loan goes up
substantially and that increases cost
for everyone and also it creates a lot
of stress on the borrower. So, if you
can reach out to them ahead of time,
you're going to provide an overall
better experience.
When markets are improving, as they are
today, you can use your data to quickly
target clients who you who could take
advantage of the lower interest rate. At
LenderPrice, we have a tool that we call
the bulk API. With this tool, our
clients are able to upload their entire
servicing book to us each night, and we
run that against our pricing engine to
tell them what the current price would
be on that loan. They're then taking
that information, feeding it back into
their servicing system, and building
marketing campaigns off of that.
They're now reaching out and letting
their clients know proactively, hey, you
would be eligible for a refinance. and
here's an estimate of what your new rate
payment would be. When clients call into
their help centers and they are asking
questions about the servicing of the
loan, that data is available to them as
well and they can say, "Let me tell you
how I can help you now that I've uh
gotten through the questions that you've
asked." Again, overall, we're looking
for ways to improve the entire mortgage
experience so that both borrowers and
lenders are able to save money and
provide great experiences.
>> Yeah, of course, any technology that
improves efficiency and overall customer
experience is a positive, but I'm sure
there are some challenges. Uh, what are
some of those? What recommendations do
you have to ensure a smooth adoption and
transition? You know when I was thinking
about this question there were many
different aspects of it you know both
from a technical and business
perspective but I think the overarching
topic is
change management. By having good change
management both on the technical and
business side you're going to have a
smooth transition with anything that
you're implementing.
teams do a really good job researching
products that they're looking in and
securing the best deal, but oftent times
they jump right in and start working on
the technical aspects of the integration
without looking at how they're really
going to implement this new system or
feature and how they're going to get
adoption across the the company.
Planning and implementation from end to
end is what will one ensure the project
stays on track, two meets the overall
goals that were established when the
purchase was made and three ensures
adoption across the entire company.
Throughout my career, I've seen many
projects that have been successful
because they took all three of these
things into consideration. And I've also
seen others fail. Not because the
technology was flawed, but because the
project never had a rudder and the
project kept spinning in circles trying
to get to completion.
I remember one project that we worked on
years ago where we had 27 different work
streams that all had to come together a
year later in order to ensure success of
the project.
Because of a strong program manager and
several projects teams working together,
all of this was completed on time and
the overall project was a success. That
doesn't mean that there weren't bumps
along the way.
However, through proper planning, the
bumps were able to be smoothed out
quickly and efficiently in order to
ensure the project remained on track.
listening to your clients and listening
to your own employees along the way.
Showing them how what you are working on
and how it will look when it is deployed
provides them the opportunity to ask
questions so that they can better
understand the endgame and how it will
impact their day-to-day activities.
The thing that brings greatest fear to
anyone is change,
especially when they have no idea what
that change is going to look like.
It also provides them an opportunity to
point out areas where they may have
workarounds that you don't know about or
that were not discovered during the
analysis.
Engaging with the team, having them
involved in testing the application and
providing detailed training really helps
to ensure that when you're ready to roll
out that product, you will have complete
not only the technology aspect
successfully, you will have strong
voices throughout the business teams
that can really help you with adoption
of the new technology. And that's the
overall goal that we're looking for when
we're putting a project together for a
team.
>> Paul, that's great advice and it's been
great catching up with you once again.
You've given our viewers a lot of
valuable information. Thank you for
joining us today.
>> Thank you for having me and I look
forward to seeing you out in Vegas at
the NBA annual.
>> Likewise.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
