Good afternoon.
My name is Connor Tesky. I'm the CEO of
Brookfield Renewable Partners. Thank you
for your interest in our business. We
are very excited about the position of
our platform. Uh so let's jump right
into it.
Energy markets are constantly evolving
and that evolution
evolution has undoubtedly accelerated in
recent years. And what we will
communicate today is that our platform,
the assets and capabilities we have
built within our business are uniquely
tailored to meet the growing and
evolving energy demands of today's
market. And as a result, we feel we are
built to outperform in this environment.
Natalie Adomate, our chief operating
officer, will highlight how our assets
and capabilities can help meet both the
generation and the capacity needs of the
largest energy consumers around the
world in ways that few, if any, can
match.
J. Vena, our chief investment officer
will highlight the growth of our M&A
activities,
but perhaps more importantly, the growth
of our capital recycling activities that
are driving increased value creation and
an accretive source of funding for our
business. And then lastly, Patrick
Taylor, our CFO, will speak to how all
the profit drivers in our business are
currently pointed in the right
direction, giving us tremendous
confidence that we will deliver
sustained value and cash flow growth
over the long term.
Our
business has been performing well for a
number of years now,
but the leadership positions and the
assets we have built over the last
several years uniquely positioned
Brookfield in the most important parts
and dynamics of the energy market. And
as a result, we feel we are entering a
period where we can exceed our long-term
financial targets.
And this is not simply forward-looking.
Similar to last year and the year before
that, across our business, we have
enhanced our performance, setting
records across all relevant KPIs,
our sustained distribution growth is
supported by yet another record year of
financial performance.
And perhaps even more important, in a
year where renewables was defined by
uncertainty and headline noise, our
platform has proven to be resilient. And
those dynamics have served to only
create attractive value opportunities
for us to invest to support our next leg
of growth.
And that is because at a simple level,
our business produces a product that the
world is desperately in need of more of.
Due to broad-based electrification and
increasing energy demands from data
centers, the world needs more
electricity than ever before. And the
demand fundamentals that support that
trend are going to continue to be
sustained and grow for decades to come.
And we are the first to recognize that
renewables are not going to be 100% of
the solution.
Energy requirements are so significant
that they will need an any and all or an
all of the above type solution.
But renewables will be the dominant
component.
And it is because renewables, the lowest
cost, most mature technologies, the
renewables technologies that we at
Brookfield focus on, have been growing
for the last decade because they are the
cheapest. They are the cheapest form of
bulk electricity production in every
market around the world. And further, in
an environment where speed to market and
energy security are increasingly
important, they win on those criteria as
well.
And it wouldn't matter which product,
but the cheapest and easiest to deploy
alternative will always soak up the
greatest amount of market demand. And
that is exactly what we are seeing in
our business.
And today we feel that we have an
unparalleled platform to meet this
growing market demand. We have
leadership positions in the most
important technologies and the most
important geographies. And this allows
us to deliver sustained attractive
investment returns as well as constantly
evolving to meet the demands of our
clients.
A somewhat underappreciated
aspect of our business is how we
leverage that existing leadership
position to consistently and recurringly
identify, invest in, and capitalize on
the next large and attractive
opportunities in the space. Since 2019,
we've invested heavily in onshore wind
and solar development, nuclear, and
energy storage, all prior to major step
changes in the demands for those
products.
But we equally use our leadership
position and the breadth of our platform
to identify the segments of the markets
and the trends that we don't want to
participate in.
Because our business is so broad and we
see so many growth opportunities, we
never feel the need to stretch when we
don't feel the riskadjusted returns are
attractive or we feel there is too much
development or regulatory risk. And by
utilizing this discipline today, we have
no exposure to the sectors of the
renewables markets seeing the greatest
headwinds. And we have a clean
portfolio, track record and balance
sheet with which to capture the
tailwinds of the industry.
And this goes beyond just technology
segments within the industry. Over the
last 12 months, undoubtedly the US
renewable sector has been defined by a
period of regulatory uncertainty and
headline noise. And that has impacted
some market participants.
But as demonstrated by our financial
results, we have built a platform that
can navigate these dynamics and has been
insulated from these headwinds
by focusing on the lowest cost
technologies that perform regardless of
market environment.
By leveraging our operating capabilities
to navigate changes and build our
projects on time and on budget. by being
disciplined when we invest such that we
don't need a perfect
market environment in order to achieve
our returns.
And lastly, by always maintaining access
to capital and a diver a diversified
portfolio, we have not only managed
through this period, we have flourished
and we expect the recent uncertainty to
create several attractive investment
opportunities over the next 12 months.
And while we have been navigating this,
we have also positioned Brookfield
Renewable at the absolute forefront of
three of the largest energy trends
around the world today.
Those of the US ambition for energy
dominance,
increasing demand for energy from the
tech industry and data centers, and the
growing need for batteries and energy
storage solutions.
There is no operator
better positioned to capture the
tailwinds of the US ambition for energy
dominance. Today, Brookfield Renewable
is the largest owner of private hydros
in the US and the value of those assets
is increasing dramatically due to their
clean, dispatchable base load nature.
Hydro's ability to provide consistent
247 power either independently
or in conjunction with lowcost wind and
solar is becoming increasingly scarce
and more valuable in this market.
We own Westinghouse,
the leading global nuclear power
company, a business that is positioned
at the forefront of this US
administration's ambition to build more
nuclear power generation in the United
States. And lastly, we have one of, if
not the largest advanced pipeline of
readyto-build, lowcost wind and solar
projects to meet the immediate and
growing demand for energy in the
country.
The second key trend we spoke about is
how power remains the bottleneck on the
critical path to growth for the largest
and fastest growing technology companies
around the world.
And as demonstrated by our partnerships
with Microsoft and Google, Brookfield
Renewable is one of, if not the largest
provider of clean green power to these
businesses. And this did not happen by
chance.
We identified where we thought the
greatest demand growth would come in the
future and we actively acquired or
developed assets in those regions. And
today our pipeline pipeline is
exceptionally well positioned.
Almost the entirety of our development
projects are in key data center markets.
And as a result of this, our contracting
activities with these counterparties has
grown almost 100% in the last two years.
Lastly,
earlier this year, Brookfield Renewable
completed the largest investment in its
history when it acquired Noen.
Now, Naoen is a leading global renewable
power developer, but perhaps
underappreciated is Noen is undisputedly
the global leader in energy storage and
battery development solutions. And by
combining Naoen's capabilities with our
existing platform in that segment, we
now have a global leadership position
and energy storage is the fastest
growing segment within Brookfield
Renewable.
We believe this leadership position will
continue to pay meaningful dividends in
the future as more intermittent wind and
solar go on global electricity grids and
battery costs continue to decline.
So as a result, we feel we have never
been more positioned to capitalize on
the key trends in this market and
outperform our traditional performance
and our long-term targets. And while all
of this has been specific to existing
and current market fundamentals, the key
building blocks of our business that
have driven our growth for decades and
will drive it for years to come have not
changed.
We have a scale irreplaceable platform
comprised of one of the largest
pipelines of lowcost wind and solar
assets
but paired with irreplaceable and hard
torelicate leadership positions across
hydro, nuclear and battery storage.
We complement that with an unmatched
operating capability with boots on the
ground in every market around the world
where we operate, allowing us to
navigate any changes, capitalizing on
opportunities and mitigating risks as
they arise.
And we pair that with one of the largest
industry focused M&A teams that ensures
that we can continue to identify, invest
in, and capitalize on the next
attractive trend.
And these assets and those capabilities
continue to make Brookfield the partner
of choice for the largest consumers of
energy around the world, in particular
large tech companies and governments.
Our ability to provide scale, flexible
solutions allows us to build and invest
in proprietary opportunities, a large
pipeline of investments where we don't
need to compete on cost of capital.
And as our business grows and our
leadership capabilities expand, we
expect the size of those partnerships
and the number of them to grow as well.
And we do all of this without ever
compromising on the bedrock of our
business, which is our balance sheet. We
maintain the highest credit rating in
the sector and record levels of
liquidity to ensure that we can invest
in the next attractive opportunity
whenever or wherever it arises.
So before I hand over to Natalie, in
summary, we feel that we have the
assets, the platform, and the leadership
position in the most important segments
of the energy sector and therefore we
are built to outperform in this
environment.
[Applause]
As mentioned, my name is Natalie Adam
and I'm the chief operating officer for
Brookfield Renewable Partners. And
today, what I want to do is talk a
little bit of a layer deeper on some of
the comments and themes that Connor's
already spoken about today. In
particular, why our platform and our
portfolio sets us up better than
everyone else to take advantage of the
themes we're seeing in the energy
industry at the moment.
For decades, power growth in power
consumption has been flat as we've seen
the power demand in developed economies
be largely offset by a lot of the
efficiency gains that have proved out
within the system. But in the past few
years, we've seen that dynamic start to
shift. Today, we've seen an acceleration
in demand, and power, access to power is
now clearly defined as the key
bottleneck to achieving growth in new
industries. and the economic growth that
comes as a result of that.
Now, driving this sustained surge in
energy demand is three key mega trends
which Connor already mentioned today but
are worth reiterating. The first is
digitalization and AI and the growth in
data centers. data centers power
consumption alone will drive an 8 to 10%
growth in uh in in power demand annually
through 2050 and data center demand in
the US alone is expected to increase
five-fold representing roughly half of
the demand growth we're going to see in
that market in the next decade.
The second major mega trend is continued
electrification across transport and
industry. And the third is an
accelerating re-industrialization in
developed markets as del globalization
continues to reshape global supply
chains.
With those three drivers alone, there's
a need for vast amounts of new
incremental power in order to deliver on
the economic growth that's expected in
the coming decades.
Now to meet this vast energy demand,
we'll take an all of the- above energy
solution and buyers are rationally are
going to first look for the cheapest and
the fastest tom market solutions
available to meet that. Now for those
reasons, combined with the fact that it
also green, renewable technologies will
naturally be the first ones that will be
taken advantage of to meet the growing
incremental energy demand.
But for hyperscalers in particular, one
thing we're increasingly hearing is the
need for reliability as an increasing
element of or an increasing
non-negotiable.
Hyperscalers require what they call the
59s or 99.999%
availability. That's less than 5 minutes
of downtime per year.
As a result, continuous base load power
is needed to complement those lowest
cost and fastest market fastest tomarket
technologies like renewables.
And our business is truly best placed to
capture a disproportionate amount of
that growth because what makes our
platform truly unique is we already have
the assets. We've strategically invested
in hydro, nuclear, and batteries which
provide that dispatchable and base load
power which can provide the reliability.
And we can pair those technologies with
our large lowcost renewable pipeline.
That means we're not just adding
gigawatt. We're delivering scale power
solutions that meet both a lowcost and
reliability objective.
Let's look a little bit deeper at our
hydro portfolio as an example of this.
Hydro has been the foundation of our
power business for decades. Today, we
have one of the largest private uh
private portfolios and we're the largest
one of the largest private owners of
hydro on a global basis. And with hydro
today being more critical to energy
grids than at any point in the past, it
means our portfolio has also never been
more strategic, more valuable, and
better able to access some of the value
creation we're expecting as a result of
these increase in energy trends.
The first perfect example of this is our
recently announced Google framework
agreement. We partnered with one of the
world's largest and most sophisticated
buyers of power with an agreement to
deliver for them 3 gawatt of power from
our hydro business over the coming
years.
Not only does this allow us to lock in
long-term revenue contracts and
long-term revenue contracts that will
drive cash flow visibility and increase
our FFO, but we're also able to use
those contracts to unlock financing up
financing opportunities on those assets
which further strengthens our funding
model.
Another way that we've been able to
demonstrate and capture increased value
within our hydro portfolio has been
through the sale of select non-core
assets, including the sale of first
hydro last year in the UK and the sale
of a select portfolio of hydros in
Maine.
But don't take these sales as a
suggestion that we're going to be moving
away from hydro. We also use some of
that capital to reinvest back into new
growth opportunities like an increased
ownership stake in ISAN, our Colombian
hydro portfolio earlier this year. So,
we're crystallizing on some of that
value in the market we're seeing today,
but then reinvesting and continuing to
reinforce this hydro as a core strategic
asset class and a cornerstone in our
portfolio.
Another unique advantage of our
portfolio is our exposure to the
exposure to the outstanding growth that
we're seeing in the nuclear sector. And
of course, that exposure comes through
our ownership stake in Westinghouse.
Based in the US, Westinghouse has a
natural advantage in a market where
policy and public support for nuclear is
accelerating. And at the same time,
Westinghouse truly has a global reach.
It serves about 2third of the world's
nuclear fleet and supplies nearly half
of all reactors around the world with
its technology.
Now that combination of the deep US
expertise and global scale position
allows Westinghouse and Brookfield to
capture growth from new reactor builds,
life extensions, and the wave of
investment that's now flowing into
nuclear around the world.
And of course, no discussion on the flex
on no discussion on flexible
dispatchable power would be complete
without talking about one of the fastest
growing technologies in our portfolio.
And that of course is batteries.
Batteries are now moving down the cost
curve in a way that we saw solar do
about a decade ago. Since 2010, costs
have come down about 90%. And over the
coming years, we expect to see further
cost declines. With this technology now
increasingly affordable to deploy, we're
seeing an increasing amount of
opportunities to deploy batteries
alongside our wind and solar, turning
our intermittent generation into more
reliable and consistent power source.
In particular, in markets where we see
that rapid data center growth, batteries
are able to firm up those quicktomarket
renewable projects and help deliver the
reliability that our c customers are
craving.
And at Brookfield, we recognized early
that batteries was would be a critical
component of the power mix as renewable
penetration was increasing around the
world. And that foresight is what
contributed to us acquiring Naomoin, who
is not only a leader in renewables
development, but also a leader in
developing and operating batteries
around the world. With the acquisition
of Nao, we now have one of the world's
largest battery portfolios. We have over
1.5 gawatt of operating capacity and
overify
across our broader portfolio. And that
really positions us as a global leader
in a technology that we see is at a true
inflection point.
Now you all know very well the depth and
breadth of our renewables platform. If
you've come to this event in the past,
you've heard us talk about our operating
teams, our deep pipeline, our diverse
portfolio uh across the different
renewable technologies.
But our edge in deploying technologies
will come from our ability to combine
those lowcost solutions with the
dependable base load power we already
have in our portfolio today. Our ability
to deliver those tailored solutions for
our customers will be what continues to
set us apart as a partner of choice for
the largest buyers of power in the
market and will allow us to continue to
generate the strongest riskadjusted
returns in our sector.
So to summarize, we have the projects
and the assets in markets where demand
is accelerating. We have the exact mix
of technologies that the market wants
with lowcost renewable generation and
dispatchable base load power to provide
that reliability. And because of our
relationships and our operating
expertise, we can deliver those
solutions at scale for the world's
largest buyers of power. Put simply,
there is no other platform that's as
positioned as well positioned as we are
to outperform, to drive value, to drive
growth, and to help power the industries
of the future. So, with that, I'll pass
it over to Jay.
[Applause]
>> Thank you, Natalie. And hello, everyone.
My name is Jay Baina and I'm the chief
investment officer for Brookfield
Renewable Power. Today, I'm excited to
speak to you about our differentiated
M&A capabilities and acid recycling
that's delivering strong returns and
growth for our business. As Connor and
Natie have both highlighted, demand for
power is accelerating at a pace we
haven't seen in decades.
This surge creates a huge opening for us
with unmatched access to capital, a
differentiated M&A engine, and a deep
development pipeline to capture growth.
That's why we've raised our deployment
target committing 9 to10 billion billion
over the next five years across both
organic development and acquisitions.
This step up reflects both the scale of
the opportunity ahead and our confidence
in executing it.
In recent years, we've scaled our
development activities both organically
and by acquiring leading platforms with
strong development pipelines and
capabilities.
We now expect that nearly half of our
invested capital will go to proprietary
development in our key markets. These
are opportunities that we have
originated and we control. This shift
gives us more optionality, accelerates
deployment into new projects and fuels
asset recycling. As we deliver d-risk
infrastructure that's highly attractive
to low cost of capital buyers. A bigger
development pipeline also raises the bar
for M&A. However, that being said, we've
proven our ability to execute large
acquisitions and we're well positioned
to continue doing so.
Today, our M&A pipeline tops 100 billion
in enterprise value, fueled by strong
market tailwinds and our ability to
underwrite at scale. With deep capital
access, proven structuring and execution
capabilities, we can move fast and
decisively to secure acquisitions and
capitalize on dislocations. This current
market today, we see market volat
volatility, shifting regulations and
sentiment-driven fluctuations, and they
are creating attractive and compelling
entry points. This is a market that
rewards scale and backed by an
investment team of more than 150
professionals across North America,
Europe, South America, and APAC, we see
nearly every deal. And through our
relationships, we often surface
opportunities that never make it to the
market. Time and time again, we've shown
we don't need to be the highest bidder
to win. Certainty of capital, speed of
execution, and creative structuring has
consistently set us apart.
Over the past few years, we've shown an
ability to to spot the big shifts early
and invest ahead of the curve. We scaled
up CNI distributor generation by
consolidating smaller businesses into a
larger, more efficient platform. These
projects, they ease grid constraints and
deliver lowcost power to customers.
We moved into solar and wind development
in markets where demand is now surging,
creating real growth engines inside our
business. And as others have mentioned,
we invested in nuclear before its
resurgence and we believe we're still in
the very early stages of a long
sustained investment cycle there. And
lastly, recently with no in we acquired
a leading battery operator and
developer, a move that sets us apart by
providing at the firming and
stabilization services the grid
requires.
In addition to investing ahead of
emerging trends, we've also been able to
avoid investing in technology and
opportunities that have been challenged
over the last several years. There have
been many areas that attracted a lot of
capital but ultimately did not meet our
riskreward criteria. For example, we
deliberately stayed out of offshore wind
where projects are heavily dependent on
subsidies and exposed to policy and
construction risk. We've also avoided
residential solar, a segment with
unproven economics and high customer
acquisition costs. And we've also
avoided highly le leveraged investments
where the capital structure just simply
didn't provide the downside protection
we require. By maintaining this
discipline, we've shown that we preserve
capital for opportunities that truly
align with our return thresholds and our
focus is on mature, cost competitive and
scalable solutions that we can derisk.
Something that is consistent across our
investments is our approach. We focus on
downside protection by underwriting all
our investments on a hold to maturity
basis and we ensure downside protection
and downside returns are achieved just
with our contracted operating and under
construction assets. In addition, we
focus on backing strong teams with
proven track records that can develop
exceptional reports, exceptional
projects at good returns.
Our
approach is simple. We focus on
developing highquality contracted
projects that are in strong demand from
lower cost of capital investors. The
nature of our assets, long life,
contracted and financed with fixed rates
means they often attract low cost of
capital buyers that are looking for cash
yielding assets. This drives valuations
above our underwriting and delivers a
natural uplift to our returns. With this
opportunity to generate higher returns,
we take a disciplined portfolio-wide
approach to capital recycling and
leverage our relationships with ILPs who
are often looking for these types of
investments across their mandates.
Taking a step back, asset recycling is
now a core part of our business model
and it delivers value across the entire
franchise. As we scale our asset
development, which we expect to reach 10
gigawatts annually by 2027, we are
creating a consistent pipeline of
salailable assets. That's 10 gawatt
annually. This approach crystallizes
development value, creates a reoccurring
self-funding mechanism, and becomes an
attractive source of capital for new
growth.
And unique to our model is that it gives
us the flexibility to monetize either
platforms or assets. This helps us
ensure we maximize value and
consistently recycle capital at
attractive rates.
The scale of the assets we're selling
has evolved. We can sell platforms with
endtoend capabilities and growth
pipelines as we've done in in recent
years. As you can see with Seda Yield,
our India platform and most recently
with the sale of a majority interest in
Lumines and I'm very proud to say these
returns these sales have generated
significant proceeds to fund growth and
returns of 26% and a 2.6 MOIC which are
above our targets.
In addition to platform transactions,
we're also generating value through
individual asset sales. Recent examples
include First Hydro, Shepherd's Flat,
and 50% of a portfolio of hydros in
Maine. We look to execute on our
business plans, delivering on the
largest value creation levers to
successfully derisk the assets. And what
that means is we sign long-term
contracts, optimize the capital
structure, and deliver on targeted
capital structure, capital projects. And
as you can see, this is translated to an
18% return, three times, also above
target.
As part of our recycling activity, we
now are also building programs within
the platforms and portfolio companies
themselves. In some cases, these
capabilities didn't exist before we
owned the business. We built them and
scaled them under our watch. Noen is a
recent example where since our
acquisition, we've implemented a
recycling program that has already
generated meaningful proceeds in line
with underwriting.
And embedding recycling into our
platforms strengthens our business
models by providing a source of funding
for growth. And we have executed on this
strategy for several years in many of
our other portfolio companies such as
Deriva, Exilio and OnPath.
Finally, to wrap up, the message I hope
to leave you with is simple. Our model
is working even better with scale. We
expect to continue growing our business
with record deployment of 9 to10 billion
in the next 5 years across both
development and M&A. Our disciplined
investment approach is resulting in a
portfolio of assets that are highly
attractive to other investors and our
deep LP relationships give us a built-in
market to recycle these assets
efficiently. As a result, recycling is
becoming a larger and more consistent
part of our business, providing a
natural source to drive accretive
growth. Taken together, we are proving
out the full value creation
capabilities, and we're positioned to
continue scaling these assets as we
grow. Thank you. With that, I'm going to
pass it over to Patrick Taylor, our CFO.
>> Thanks everybody and and good afternoon.
Thanks for for bearing with us here. Um
I'll try my best to be brief. Um today I
want to spend some time talking to you
all about what has been a record setting
last 12 months for our business. Um I
want to talk about how that's built on a
10 plus year track record of cash flow
and value growth for Brookfield
Renewable. But most importantly, I want
to talk to you about how we've never
felt better positioned to grow our FFO
per unit at 10 plus% on an annual basis.
So let's first start with the last 12
years or sorry last 12 months. They've
been record setting. We've had record
FFO and 11% per unit growth and that's
allowed us to have a stable distribution
growth of over 5%.
Second, we've been incredibly active in
what has been a very strong capital
markets environment for highquality
businesses and sponsors such as
ourselves, raising $ 34 billion of
financings across the entirety of our
franchise in the last 12 months alone.
All of this underpinned by a record
level of liquidity at $4.7 billion
today. And lastly, we've enhanced the
diversification and the quality of the
cash flows of our business, adding
leading platforms and increasing our
investment in some of our best
performing assets in the history of
Brookfield Renewable.
More important than the last 12 months
though has been the last 10 years plus
in terms of our track record. And what
you can see here is whether it's FFO,
FFO per unit, distribution growth, all
very strong growth over the last 10
years. And we expect given the
positioning of our business today for
that earnings growth to accelerate.
Even more impressive than some of the
growth that you're seeing at the top of
the slide has been that we have not had
to compromise on the risk profile of our
business. maintaining the contracted
cash flow profile around 90% throughout
the last 10 years, adding a significant
amount of liquidity, going from a little
over $1 billion back in 2015 to now
almost $5 billion standing here today.
And all the while increasing the credit
rating of our business in the past 10
years. All of this lays the foundation
for what we think is a period of
accelerated earnings growth for the
business that should drive distribution
growth. well in line with our targets.
We thought it might make sense to spend
a little bit of time talking about the
capital markets because we have been
very active there and we believe this is
one of the most differentiated parts of
our franchise is access to capital and
we have been accessing a lot of it in
the last 12 months. $34 billion and as
you can see on the graph here on the
left hand side that has been
increasingly scaling over the last
several years. All of this though
without compromising the prudent
conservative financing approach that we
have at Brookfield Renewable. Long-term
investment grade fixed rate local
currency nonreourse financing with no
crossc collateralization. And all of
this has put us in a position where
almost all of our debt today is fixed
rate in nature. And that's incredibly
important not only to protect us on the
downside with rate movements, but also
to allow us to fund growth and invest
through cycles.
And lastly, again, a very key focus of
us for us is available liquidity at 4.7
billion today.
We thought it might also be helpful to
highlight a couple of the more recent
financings that we have had at
Brookfield Renewable because we believe
they're some of the most impressive
financings that we've completed in our
history and they really speak to our
differentiated portfolio that we have
today, particularly within our hydro
business.
First example on the lefth hand side,
Safe Harbor and Holtwood facilities in
Pennsylvania. These are the first two
assets that we have contracted under the
Google hydro framework agreement.
Contracting 700 megawatts of capacity
and converting a hydro from merchant to
a 20-year contracted asset at strong
pricing. All of this has allowed us to
up finance that asset on a 100% basis by
$1.7 billion while maintaining
investment grade rating. The ability to
be able to raise that amount of capital
at investment grade levels, take the
cash and redeploy it back into our
business is an incredibly accreative
source of capital for us. The second
example here is one where we think we've
shown we can innovate where we have
taken a financing package and enhanced
the credit quality of it with our Smoky
Mountain hydro facility. Here we
innovated by increasing or sculpting the
amortization profile of that facility to
better match its hydrogeneration
profile, increasing the credit quality
of that financing package and allowing
us to raise even more financing at
investment grade levels again to
redeploy back into growth elsewhere in
the business. And lastly, on the
corporate front, we will continue to be
opportunistic. We raised $850 million of
financing across our corporate
financings in the last 12 months alone.
The highlights there are really twofold.
The first is back in March, we were able
to raise 10-year notes at the lowest
coupon in the last 5 years and the
tightest spread that we have done in the
last 20 years. And overall, we continue
to see this financing and access to
capital to be an incredible competitive
advantage for ours of ours. And we
expect that to continue.
A couple of the other speakers have also
mentioned how we have been very very
busy on the M&A front. Here we continue
to add our exposure to the lowest cost
technologies in the space and the
highest growth markets. And as you can
see on the right hand side from an FFO
perspective, we continue to diversify
and improve the quality and the
diversification of the cash flows in our
business very disproportionately slanted
towards lowcost technologies while still
having a very high proportion in some of
the strategic base load capabilities
that we've talked about today.
One thing worth talking about with our
business that we feel is very
underappreciated though is we spend a
lot of time working with our portfolio
companies and building platform value.
And that platform value, whether it be
installing end-to-end capabilities,
optimizing capital structures, or
delivering growth in a self-funded way,
is just simply not recognized in our
financial statements today. They only
get recognized once we realize on an
asset sale and we have a fairly strong
track record of doing so but we'll
continue to be focused in that area but
something we thought worth reiterating
here.
The most important message I want to get
across today though is that we think the
tailwinds for our earnings growth are
really accelerating and we see it across
five different areas in our business
today. The first is inflation in most of
the major economies in which we operate
continues to be sticky and this is
really helpful for us because we have a
high cash operating margin business and
70% of our revenues are inflation
linked. Second power demand and in turn
pricing continues to rise particularly
in the markets that we're operating in
and that's also very helpful because we
have 6 1/2 terowatt hours coming up for
recontracting in the next 5 years.
Third, there is an incredible premium
being placed today on execution. And as
we look ahead, not only at what we've
done historically execution-wise from an
operating and a development perspective,
but we are incredibly focused on 10
gawatts of run rate development per year
by 2027. And we think that will be very
differentiated versus others in the
space. And speaking about the broader
sector, there continues to be no
shortage of challenges there. But that's
it puts us in an incredibly good
position. We have 4.7 billion of capital
at our level, but we also have the power
to invest $25 billion of partner capital
alongside of that to take advantage of
what we see as an M&A environment that
should be very rich with opportunity.
And then lastly, transaction activity
and liquidity in the broader capital
markets continues to improve. And that
is a huge benefit to our franchise
because we have never been in a position
to put more assets up for sale, whether
it be through our development pipeline
or platforms, than we ever have before,
targeting over $2 billion of asset sales
on a run rate basis every year.
So, let's spend a little bit of time
very briefly going through our building
blocks as to why we have a high level of
conviction on our FFO per unit growth.
We feel it's really a combination of
four steps. It's inflation escalation,
margin improvements which include the
benefits of recontracting at higher
pricing. It's the execution of our
development pipeline. And then it's also
the upside with respect to M&A and
capital recycling.
First on inflation, 70% of our revenues
are indexed included or index um uh in
indexed to inflation and at 2 to 3% per
year that equates to roughly 150 million
of incremental FFO for our business over
the next 5 years or 2% growth per year.
Second, we have 6,500 gawatt hours
coming up for recontracting in the next
five years alone. And at reasonably
conservative assumptions with respect to
recontracting, we would expect that to
drive 100 million more of incremental
FFO over the next five years
across the entirety of the portfolio. In
addition to recontracting, we have a
significant program focused on improving
and getting more output from our assets
as well. And we believe that will
generate another 1 to 2% of FFO growth
per year over the next five.
And one of the largest drivers of growth
from an organic perspective is going to
come from continued execution of our
development pipeline. By 2027, we will
put online 10 gigawatts per year every
year from there on. And based on our
math and our assumptions, we believe
that will generate $385 million more of
incremental FO or roughly 5%.
All of this in the context of M&A and
capital recycling being an upside to
that 10% growth figure.
And so in conclusion, we've had a record
last 12 months. It's built on an
incredibly strong track record of 10
plus years of cash flow and value
growth. We're continuing to focus on
strengthening our sectorleading balance
sheet and maintaining high levels of
liquidity while not compromising on our
approach to financing.
We've enhanced the quality and the
diversification of the cash flows of our
business. And lastly, we've have a high
level of conviction around the cash flow
growth that's embedded in our business
today, given all of the positive
tailwinds are accelerating for our
earnings growth.
So, with that, I'll hand it back now to
Connor for some concluding remarks and
Q&A. Thank you.
So
in conclusion, we'll be quick. We feel
that our leadership position in the most
important technologies
and our market position at the forefront
of the biggest trends of in energy
position our business to outperform.
As Jay mentioned, our increased capital
recycling activities are a growing value
driver and a creative funding source
within our business. And lastly, we feel
that we have never been as well
positioned as we are today to deliver
financial performance at or above our
10% per unit growth target.
