Replet, previously an online development
environment enabling developers to code
in their browsers, now is an AI powered
platform that lets you create and
publish apps from that same browser. It
joins the likes of Bolt. New, GitHub,
Spark, and Lovable, which aim to get you
coding and delivering apps faster. But
how good is it at delivering on the
promise of fulfilling your prompt? And
how secure is the code that it writes?
These are questions that came to my mind
and I had to find out.
[Music]
To get started, I needed to sign up for
an account. I used GitHub social login
to keep it simple, and that landed me
here in this dashboard. Once there, the
next thing I wondered was how much would
it cost to use Replet. I could see I was
on something called the starter plan,
which indicated I could create 10 free
apps and have used 0% of their agent
usage, but I wasn't sure how I could
leverage their agent from this
dashboard. So, I decided to jump right
in with my prompt. Now, if you've been
following along with our video series on
the Sneak Channel where we use the same
prompt against different AI tools, you
already know what I'm going to ask it to
build. But for those of you not
familiar, I'm building a simple
note-taking application, which I
indicate to these tools has to be secure
and production ready. And off went
Replet. It started building out my app
based on the prompt that I gave it.
After about a minute, Replet prompted me
now by sharing and created a feature
list and wanted to know how I wish to
proceed. I had an option between build
the entire app or start with the design.
Each had a one-s sentence description
and the build the entire app option
indicated it uses Replet's agent. Now I
realized how this will affect my usage
under that free plan. So I decided to go
with that option and told Replet to
start building. This leads to the first
major visual change in Replet's UI that
feels similar to some of the other tools
in the space. You have the prompt and
chat on the left with the canvas and
coding space on the right hand side. The
process of Replet building the app
understandably took about 5 to 10
minutes, but it helpfully reported
progress on what was happening within
the chat logs along the way. What was
super interesting to see is Replet spun
up an environment with a browser for it
to visually check the results of what it
just built. This is the first time I've
seen an AI tool present this to me. As a
result of it doing this testing, it
realized that what it built was just a
blank screen and had to make
adjustments. And because of that, it
couldn't test the login process or
access protected areas like the editor
just yet. And so it continued to enhance
and work on fulfilling the prompt. Super
interesting. A few minutes later, I
could see Replet had built out some UI
now and had something visually going on
on the page and it was continuing to do
its visual testing and functional
testing in a sandbox environment so it
can understand what it built and if it's
working correctly. After a few more
minutes, I could see a message from
Replet indicating the authentication
security test passed successfully and
the application is working properly with
all the security features active. Then
it indicated wanted to mark that task as
complete and move on to the next
security test. I'm trying to log in as
user one. I've successfully set up the
system to log in as user one, but it
seems like the login button isn't
working because you're not clicking it.
Click the blue button, buddy. You can do
it. Come on, little buddy. It's right
there. There you go. There you go. Come
on.
Holy shikes, Batman. It did it.
Something else that's funny to note here
because of the prompt and the urgency
around security needed for this or I'm
going to be fired. It's using things
like enterprisegrade security.
Production ready note management with
military grade militaryra
security. Oh yeah. Look at this thing
go. Look, it's going to type. Look, it's
it's freaking typing. It's creating a
note. It knew where to click and then it
created that note. It shows up visually
in the UI. This is wild, man. Holy moly.
I'm so blown away by this. So, it
visually stepped through in its sandbox
environment here. Look at this. It
clicks on things, signs in one as one
user, created a note, then created
another user and signed in and made sure
that that user couldn't see the other
user's notes to check on that. So, and
then it comes out and it says perfect,
the credit authorization test passed
successfully. user isolation security is
working correctly. And here's all like
the test cases it used to go through and
make sure of that. Wild. Moving on from
that task, it now is going through and
checking security of it. So, wants to
make sure it prevents cross-ite
scripting. XSS, that's what that is. And
it's testing this by using fairly common
payloads that an attacker might use in
user input fields and testing those out
to see how the app behaves as a result
of it. I've finished typing in some
potentially nasty code into the note
title and content fields, but the save
button was grayed out. So, I gave the
fields a little tap. What?
What is going on? Then it found a
critical security bug. The testing
discovered a critical cross-ite
scripting vulnerability where malicious
scripts are being executed instead of
being properly sanitized. And in
response to that critical cross-ite
scripting vulnerability, it found the
areas that needed to address that issue
and implemented sanitization for the
input to try and mitigate any cross-ite
scripting vulnerabilities moving
forward. Okay. So, in its testing to
ensure the cross-ite scripting
vulnerability has been fixed, it's
noticing there's this recurring routing
issue that leads to a 404. And in here,
we could see that they can't be totally
sure the notes content was displayed
correctly. It's glitchy and the save
button won't be saying this is very
concerning but there's still an
intermittent routing problem. Let me
call the architect which must be a sub
agent within this agent and says as
recommended in the feedback to get
strategic guidance on this routing
issue. So there's multiple agents that
are running. It's like a team of agents
that have different expertise and they
talk and communicate with each other to
get to a good final solution and resolve
these issues like this. Also quite
impressive. Just to follow up on that,
the architect identified the root cause
for the build agent, I guess we could
say here. There's a debug agent,
debugging agents code. Agent ran into an
error. So that's like all the things
that the architect agent was doing. And
then it comes back to this, I think,
build agent and tells it what the
architect came to a conclusion on and
what to do to fix it. And then it takes
those instructions and runs with it and
builds it out. All right. At this point,
the agent was realizing it's hitting
rate limits. They were triggered because
of how many requests it was trying to do
in the test and it was something that
was implemented by the agent in the
application to as a security measure as
we see right here. It's a security
feature and it's working. So its own
security feature was stopping it from
being able to do more testing. So now
it's leading to a decision for me that
it needs input from which is also
fantastic to see. So my options are I
could stop here. I continue testing,
have it continue testing or I do manual
verification. And then it also indicates
again based on the initial prompt I gave
it. Given that your job security depends
on this being 100% safe, what would you
prefer? And here it gives you, you know,
that it's at a checkpoint. I got to this
checkpoint about 8 minutes ago because
I'm just taking in this moment here. It
took in total about 32 minutes of work
time to get to this point. And it gives
you a breakdown of how that went. We had
126 actions, 2,14 lines of items read,
some the code changes there, and then
the agent usage and the cost of that
that that would be I think under my free
tier. Usage is first deducted from your
monthly credit. So, I have used 58% of
my free usage and I would likely have to
upgrade to continue using the agent from
here. I'm going to see where this goes.
I'm going to use up as much as I can and
then we'll get to the conclusion at the
end here once we have a good stopping
point to see the app running based on
these proposed tasks that it has from
here that it wants to continue to do.
So, I'm going to let it do its thing
until I run out of credits and then I'll
come back and tell you how everything
went. Continuing on this security
journey that Replet is building out for
us via its agent. It's using an
encryption key that it generated for me
but to enter as a secret variable uh the
value here and it's going to be used to
enable industry standard AES 256 GCM
encryption with authenticated encryption
ensuring maximum security for your
production notes application. All right,
at this point, Replet has completed
everything you could possibly do up to
the point of me reaching my agent usage
limit. Uh, it actually went over 128%
usage, which is interesting that it let
me do that thankfully. And then uh if I
wanted to continue implementing more of
the tasks because it it finished off
essentially record all user actions and
security events and it wanted to do
these next couple of tasks here which
it's okay if we don't right now but if
you look at those tasks like this is the
most thorough and extensive task list
that I've seen from agents AI coding
agents so far in this series of videos
and these tools that we've been using on
the channel. Again, continuing with this
feeling of just being overly impressed
by what I'm seeing compared to past
results. That said, I'm going to uh I
notice that I can see the code on the
right hand side here by clicking this
button and it's going to allow me to
download all this project as a zip file.
It'll run it through the sneak security
scanning tool to see if there's any
vulnerabilities found that way. All
right, at this point I've set up the
project locally in Visual Studio Code so
I can use the sneak extension to scan
the project. I ran npm run build so we
can get a true sense of the actual code
that will run in production and allowed
sneak to scan that code as well. The
results are
a little a little concerning. So first
of all, the open source dependencies
that it chose to use did not find any
issues there. So that's a great thing.
However, when it comes to the code that
it actually wrote or is resulting in, it
leads to some issues. We have 12 issues
in total. Four within the index.js js
file from the generated or built out
project which I'll show that in just a
second. Then we have two in the server
file under the vit.ts which we'll get to
that as well in a second too. We'll go
into more details on that and then some
other lower severity ones here when it
comes to encryption the index file and
some other things here. So from there
we're not going to go through all of
these vulnerabilities that Sneak found
in the code security but let's dive into
a few of them. First off the V ones.
Now, for this one, I'd say it's safe for
us to ignore this one because it's only
going to be used for local development
purposes. And the way I know that this
cross-ite scripting vulnerability that
Sneak is reporting to me is only for
local development is when you analyze
the code further and we take a look at
where this code is running within. It's
within the setup vit function here. And
that only gets called if we go over into
the server index file. Whenever the
environment process.env here is set to
development, then it will use the setup
v function. Otherwise, it's using the
serve static function from that setup v
file. So that can be safely ignored
since it's only for development
environments. And insert just to be
sure, we could see serve static does not
have any vulnerabilities being reported
when scanned by sneak. Let's next jump
into this encryption vulnerability. We
have a medium severity vulnerability
because a use of broken or risky
cryptographic algorithm. So when we look
at that, we can see that this algorithm
is being used. And if we go to the
source of this, we can see it's using
the algorithm AES 256 CBC. We can ask
Sneak to generate an AI fix for us with
Sneak agent fix. So let's click on that.
Okay. And there we have a fix being
suggested to us. And then because of my
zoomedin view here, that button's
getting cut off. But I can say apply
fix. It switched it to GCM for me. And
that vulnerability once I run a scan
again will no longer be reported. So
there we have it. Now those two medium
severity vulnerabilities have been fixed
with sneak agent fix. Now lastly what I
want to show is the built application.
All right. I ran mpm in the terminal mpm
run build which generated a disc folder
and I enabled sneak to scan the output
here of that build. And what it resulted
in is a couple of concerning issues
here. We still have a cross-ite
scripting vulnerability in the output
here. So we click on that and we can see
that as a result of this transform index
html and the response it's sending back
it's sending the page unsanitized input
is entering into there and uh can allow
for a cross-ite scripting attack as a
result of that. In addition to that we
have clear text transmission of
sensitive information. HTTP create
server uses HTTP which is an insecure
protocol. So in this case, we'd likely
have a better environment to be running
this application in where we'd have
certificates set up for HTTPS encryption
and transmission of the sensitive
information that way. We also see
there's a medium severity for a
cross-ite request forgery vulnerability.
There's nothing implemented to help
mitigate the risk of that. And last but
not least, we have an open redirect
vulnerability here that's found within
the logout route of the application that
was built here. So, in conclusion, going
back to our questions that I had at the
beginning of this video, how good is
Replet at delivering on the promise of
fulfilling your prompt? I would say it's
very good at doing that with a few
caveats where you likely need to pay
more and it could get kind of costly to
use the agent approach that they have
available through that, but it's looking
very solid and impressive in that
regard. And the other question we had
was how secure is the code that it
writes. In this case, I would say it
takes more measures in place to test the
security of the output of the code. it's
generating and the overall app. However,
as we can see after scanning the output
of that code with a tool like Sneak, it
still leaves a gap of security issues
that it should be accounting for and is
not right now. However, one caveat to
that is maybe if I allowed it and paid
for the additional usage capabilities of
the agent, it would eventually get to
that point. There is potential for that
too. So, keep that in mind. So, some
other things that I want to take away
and call out from here based on my past
experience with other AI coding tools
like this. I think it truly felt like a
full agent because there was very little
handholding needed compared to some of
the other agent tools that I've used in
the past. It seemed to be more thorough
in checking its progress and ensuring
things are working before marking a task
as complete. For instance, it spun up a
browser environment to visually click
through and use the app. And you could
watch it move the mouse around and type.
It debugged errors and fixed them,
leveraging things like console and
system logs. and then handled even
things like database queries to
determine data constraints or
misconfigurations there. So, all that to
say, I'm quite impressed. There's still
room for improvement that likely could
come with allowing the agent to run
longer and correct itself over time. And
I think I could see myself using this
quite a bit. But I'm curious, what are
your thoughts? Have you been using
Replet? Let me know in the comments
below your experience. On that note,
that does it for this video. If you got
value out of it, be sure to like it down
below and share with somebody who could
put it to use. And if you made it this
far, subscribe to the channel so you
don't miss out on upcoming videos.
Thanks for watching and happy safe
coding everyone.
[Music]
