[Applause]
Hello everyone. Welcome to the
sustainability story. I'm Deborah Kidd,
your host for today's episode. Today
we'll be talking about the intersection
of climate change and infrastructure and
why it's critical to understand the
impact of climate change on
infrastructure and why that climate risk
is often mispriced or overlooked by
investors.
My guest is Bill Green, managing partner
of Climate Adaptive Infrastructure.
Bill founded Climate Adaptive
Infrastructure in 2019 after nearly 10
years with McCory as CEO of the group's
renewable energy holdings. Bill, thank
you for joining us today. Before we dive
into our topic, we always like to hear
the sustainability story of our guests.
So I ask you what led you to your career
in sustainability and specifically what
prompted you to found climate adaptive
infrastructure?
>> Thanks for the opportunity to work with
you and and speak a bit to your
audience. I've been doing this work for
my entire life. So I guess uh longer
than even I remember at this point I've
been involved in some form of
sustainability, decarbonization.
Um and it goes of course by many names.
I founded four companies in this space
including Echolink which was the first
company ever to produce alternatives to
chlorofluorocarbons
in the late 80s early 90s. You may
remember those as the ozone depleting
solvents and chemicals. I then co-ounded
what became one of the largest private
equity practices in what at that time we
called clean tech here in Silicon
Valley. Then, as you said, I spent 10
years as a senior managing director at
McQuary Bank involved in their renewable
energy effort and ultimately founding
MIC renewable energy holdings.
And that's where the ideas that we'll
talk about today really took shape and
where I learned about the opportunities
and the risks facing infrastructure.
In terms of sort of what what spurred us
to create CI and do the work that we do
today,
we learned over the years a lot about
infrastructure investments, why
infrastructure investing is attractive
and is the subsector that it is today
for investors. But we also learned about
some very unique risks and opportunities
facing this asset class. And while the
risks of the climate crisis impact every
asset class, whether it's public
securities or venture capital or
infrastructure or debt or anything else,
infrastructure was particularly
vulnerable and impacted and that's what
led us to sort of take the journey that
we've been on now for the last almost
six years.
Well, first let's uh define what you
mean by infrastructure just so our
audience is clear and then I want to go
back to something you just said. But are
we talking roads, bridges, buildings,
power, plants, and cities?
>> That's a great question. Infrastructure
is an all-encompassing category that
effectively has four components or four
legs to this table. One is energy in all
its forms.
Another is water and wastewater, water
processing. A third is urban and
suburban infrastructure which includes
transport data centers would fall into
that category. And the fourth is food,
agriculture and timber. and uh and here
at CI we address the first three but
those four components make up what we
broadly define as infrastructure.
>> All right. Well, thanks for clarifying
that for us. So, I want to start with a
quote from you where you said uh at one
time we continue to build infrastructure
for a planet that no longer exists.
So I thought that was a very powerful
quote and maybe you can tell our
audience what you mean by that.
>> Yeah, thank you. Well, it arose as part
of our origin story and and after the
things that I'd learned after working in
traditional infrastructure, banking and
investment over the 10 years uh that I
mentioned earlier and we were intending
to be a bit peorative with that
statement and get people to understand
as I mentioned a moment ago these unique
attributes of infrastructure. So why
don't I explain that a little bit more
to you? Now, infrastructure is
permanent. One of the many things we
like about infrastructure investments,
these are assets. They tend to be
permanent, contracted, longdated.
They're therefore not inflation
correlated. So, when an allocator of
capital thinks about asset classes,
infrastructure is quite often high on
the list because of its attributes. But
here's the catch.
Because these are permanent long-dated
assets,
they are at extreme risk of the triple
threat changes taking place around us as
a result of the climate crisis. And we
can talk more about the triple threat
later. So, let me elucidate this for
you. If you have a company like Uber and
you decide to sell food, well, you just
change the web page and voila, you are
Uber Eats. But if you build a toll road,
metaphorically speaking, below sea level
along the coast and you now have 100
days of sunny day flooding, you can't
move that road. That toll road doesn't
become an airport or a solar farm. It is
what it is. So what we began to do is
ask questions about the long-term
insights and impacts that we could
foresee around these permanent assets.
In fact, it started a bit naively. We
said, well, does it make sense to build
that metaphorical toll road in that
place? Or is there a chance that over
the next 10, 20, 30 years, the climate
crisis could change
the impact and reality of the business
of that asset. And this is true now in
so many ways as the climate crisis
reshapes our built environment and the
impacts around it. Hence the statement
we are building infrastructure for a
planet that no longer exists.
So when you are looking at an
investment,
how are you differentiating between an
infrastructure investment that is a
traditional build type investment or
or versus an infrastructure investment
that can withstand the effects of
climate change in that particular region
as you can best estimate.
So, here's the cool thing about what we
do. This is not an eitheror
conversation. We're looking at
traditional infrastructure assets. All
we're doing to boil it down is asking an
additional set of questions,
applying these CI climate screens to
those assets. So the same way we would
look at an investment of any kind and
say what is the credit risk of the
counterparty, how much leverage is on
that investment and how much leverage is
safe, what is the debt service coverage
ratio and on and on. All of the
traditional metrics as I say them, your
financial audience is nodding. Yes, we
ask that. Yes, we ask that. We also then
ask what will be the impact of physical
change? What will be the impact of
political change relative to the climate
crisis? Will these assets be resilient?
Here's an example. We've been building
solar farms all over the world for many,
many years. So when you build a solar
farm now in places that are prone to
what we call technically convective
storms, which is simply a fancy way to
say hail, what's happening as a result
of the changing climate, is that hail
has gone from being P-shaped, which is
annoying but not terribly dangerous, to
golf ball size. Well, when golf ballsiz
hail falls out of the sky, it damages
solar modules. So, here to four, one
would build a solar farm and say, "We're
creating renewable energy. This is all
good." But without asking the right
climate adaptive questions,
the solar farm is built without the
ability to forecast the weather, see the
storms coming, and then stow those
modules in a full vertical position
until the storm passes to ensure minimum
damage from these new very destructive
convective storms. Just a simple example
to say it's the same solar farm. We've
just asked a set of questions that goes
beyond what may here to for have been
the norm for due diligence and
screening. So the assets that we invest
in and that others invest in that are
called climate adaptive infrastructure
are the very same assets. They're just
more resilient as a result of our
approach.
>> So you mentioned a couple specific
risks. You mentioned physical risk and
you mentioned is it political risk. Can
you talk about those specific risks?
>> Yes, absolutely. So, we're keen on
inventing terms for things that don't
otherwise have a name and we call it the
triple threat risk. When we started the
firm and we we named these three risks
uh physical risk, regulatory risk and
political risk. And here's what it
means. When we began speaking to people
about climate impacts and
infrastructure, everyone wanted to talk
about physical risk. Oh, they would say,
I understand, I remember Hurricane
Katrina and the flooding or supertorm
Sandy or I remember the fires in Napa or
California, what have you. All physical
risks, all very real, but only onethird
of the risk spectrum that must be
considered or for which we at CI have
developed these screens. The other two,
regulatory and political, are different
in the following sense. Regulatory risk
defines risks that are on the books
today. Things that we can look at from a
regulatory standpoint such as wetlands,
uh, prevention, um, wildlife mitigation,
habitat, things like that. There are
laws on the books today, local, state,
federal, that define those, and we call
those regulatory risks. And then
finally, there is political risk.
Different only from regulatory risk in
that political risk is when we try to
look around the corner to see what's
coming and may not be on the books
today. But funny story, when we started
this, as I said, all anyone wanted to
talk about was physical risk. Guess
what? Today all they want to talk about
is political risk which is sort of
emblematic of how these three risks are
like a sine wave. The three risks are
always present and must always be
considered but in the moment one seems
more pressing than the other. And today
for reasons we all know political risk
seems to be what's on everybody's mind.
But all three of these risk categories
matter equally.
So there are many many ways that we can
also
address the risks of the climate crisis
but make investments that are not only
sustainable but that are quite
profitable at the same time and
hopefully we can leave some time to get
into that um later.
Yeah, let's actually talk about that
because I know you have said that
although you work in a sustainable field
that your primary focus is on the
economics of your investments and I know
you've also said that the that
mispricing is quite widespread in the
infrastructure field. So I'd love to
hear more about the economic benefits
that you find both in the current
environment and maybe looking ahead a
few years or that are compelling.
>> Yeah, for sure. So it what's really
interesting is that we began talking
about climate adaptive infrastructure
and these additional climate screens
simply in the context of reducing risk
and increasing opportunity and making
investors better returns. And I think
all of the CFA audience will really get
that the better we manage risk the more
money we can make. Nothing that we do at
CI is concessionary. We never ask or
consider a trade-off between doing well
and doing good. Everything here is
primarily around how do we maximize
returns for our investors. So how does
it work? Look, basically there are a
multitude of ways that we can invest
capital today and earn returns in the
infrastructure arena. The energy
transition, while it may not be so
politically correct to call it that any
longer and certainly terms as we used to
use like responsible investing in ESG
may even be more politically in
question. The fact is we are dealing
here as investors
with a set of inevitabilities
and I would assume that most of the CFA
audience are quite numeric. If I write
down a set of numbers on a page, those
numbers are not open to interpretation.
Math is math. And the inevitabilities of
the climate crisis are inevitabilities.
As parents or grandparents, we may not
like the inevitabilities. We may not be
able as humans to fully wrap our minds
around the time frames, but they are
nevertheless inevitabilities.
What are they? It is getting hotter.
It is getting drier.
These two inevitabilities drive a myriad
of physical outcomes on this planet that
all investors must be aware of. If it's
drier, there will be more fires. If it's
drier, it's harder to grow food. If it's
drier, the seven states that depend on
the Colorado River won't be able to
access that water the same way. Now,
let's put our business person's hat on.
Data centers used to be considered a
real estate investment. Poor walls, cap
rate, tenants. Now everyone knows that
they are climate adaptive infrastructure
because 80% of what they sell is
electricity and the other 20% is water.
You can't build a data center without
power and water today. So this changes
how we think about those investments.
And the inevitabilities that I mentioned
are the circumstances or facts that are
really unteded by political rhetoric. It
doesn't matter that the current US
administration says this or says that.
It does not change the inevitabilities.
It may distract people. It may depress
people. But the inevitabilities are what
we as allocators, investors and other
members of CFA have to focus on because
that's like the math on the page. Those
are the unchanging numbers.
>> Is there a particular focus or trend
that you see emerging that's going to be
the dominant need over the next 5 to 10
years for this climate adaptive
infrastructure? Is it water? Is it low
carbon? Is there not a dominant one and
they all have to be considered with
equal importance?
>> Well, you threw me a curveball at the
end of your question. There are dominant
ones, but they all have to be considered
with equal importance. I think kidding
aside, I think the I think the question
could be reframed as what is the
priority here, right? What is our order
of operation? where do the greatest
opportunities to invest and earn good
returns and and and address these issues
at the same time. So there's a long list
but they're not all mature at the same
time. I would say the most pressing
handful today include the following.
First of all, we see tremendous
opportunity and have been investing in
what we would call water infrastructure
as a service. And what this simply means
is that there are three or four kinds of
businesses that depend on water but are
not central to water. So their main
business is not water. And examples are
the semiconductor industry. They etch
ever smaller lines on little bits of
silicon but they they demand a certain
amount of very clean water and then
treat all of these heavy metal laden
water streams after production. So they
rely on water but it's not core to what
they do. Another example are data
centers. They host computer servers but
they rely on water quite often for
cooling. So water important but not
core. So here's what's happening. These
businesses are sensitive to things like
PAS and other contaminants. They need
water provided to them at a quality and
speed and cost but they don't want to
manage it. Managing water today is
complicated. Getting it into a plant,
getting it out of a plant, treating it,
zero liquid discharge, meaning you reuse
the same water again and again. So what
we do is we partner with some of the
largest water companies in the world,
Violia, others like that. They build for
us the water treatment systems.
We own them and we lease the water to
the tenants, the data center, the
semiconductor company. So what we
effectively do is we turn a capex. They
would have had to build that water
treatment plant and run it and risk the
liabilities of doing so. So you will see
more and more of that in the
infrastructure industry. People who are
not core but rely on a certain type of
infrastructure.
related to that another huge demand
which I think is probably more familiar
to most people is this whole story
around data centers now we all know
there's an explosion of use of data if
it's actually not limited to AI although
that is a factor but how many times have
you seen someone say I think I'll give
up my cell phone uh and iPad so we're
we're in this explosion of data
capturing photos videos and all the rest
these data centers s rely on energy. And
the way this used to be done is the big
data consumers, Google, Apple, Amazon,
so forth, would say, I would like a data
center to be in city X because that's
where I am and that's where my people
are. Please build it for me there. But
it's now become apparent that this load,
this demand for energy cannot be cited
where you might like it to be. But
instead the trend has now emerged that
says the load, the demand for the
electricity has to move to where the
energy is. So one of our portfolio
companies called Intersect Power has
pioneered this quite effectively
building gigawatt scale. gigawatt scale.
These are gigantic renewable energy
facilities in places with a lot of
renewable energy, sun and wind
primarily, Texas for example. And then
the data centers move there
bringing the load to generation and
eliminating the need for transmission
which in this country is very very
limited and quite constrained. So the
whole idea of moving load be it data
load be it manufacturing load to
generation is going to be another theme
that we think is going to be quite
critical
that has already become quite critical
in fact
>> I want to change direction just for a
minute here and I want to bring up a a
comment you had made in another
interview on standards and disclosures.
So obviously we at CFA Institute have a
strong belief that standardized
disclosures and consistent sets of
information are very helpful to
investors when making decisions about
where to place their money. So you've
commented in the past about how it's
it's difficult for investors to compare
investments in this infrastructure and
environment um because there is no set
of consistent disclosures or
standardized disclosures from asset
owners or an RFPs. So investors end up
with kind of I would imagine kind of a
hodgepodge of information trying to
compare all of that
I just wanted to to get a little more of
your experience with that and your
thoughts on what might be helpful in the
future for investors who are considering
making infrastructure investments.
>> Sure. It's actually a little more
complicated than you've laid it out and
the reason is there are standards. There
are various standards and bodies in
Europe. For example, the European Union
has something called EU taxonomy or SFDR
and and funds or investors can claim a
level of sustainability, level eight,
level 9. CI happens to report to the
highest standard under the EU taxonomy,
level 9. But there there are standards
that exist. So here's where it becomes
complicated. We are routinely asked as
are many other managers to respond to
various standards that are not
correlated with one another. The second
layer of the problem is that even these
standards like PRI which is one you and
your listeners may have heard of
continues to evolve and now there are
questions like well should natural gas
actually be considered a bridge fuel to
a lowcarbon future? Should nuclear be
something that we embrace? because on
the one hand there is toxic waste and on
the other hand it is a zerocarbon source
of energy. So these standards are
constantly being questioned. When they
become popular because of their
popularity many users with different
agendas will then question and attempt
to move them. So these standards become
really complex and then each of your
investors may come to you with a
different set of standards and say
please report to these. What advice
could I offer? Look, this is not a
simple issue and we're not going to
solve this in the podcast. Let me give
you one quick example. We are often
asked about our solar investments. Well,
how much CO2
emissions does that solar farm remove?
Seems a pretty interesting and honest
question, right?
But the problem is it's unanswerable
because that solar plant sits on a place
in the grid. Let's say in the state of
California,
if this solar plant weren't there, the
electricity would come from various
places in the state and out of the
state. At one part of the day, it might
come from other solar plants. So, the
answer is the solar plant we built for
that part of the day really doesn't
remove any CO2. It just adds more CO2
free electricity, but at a different
time of day, the state may be importing
power from another state that burns coal
or they may be using power from a
natural gas plant. So throughout the
day, the benefit of having our new solar
farm in place changes based on a time of
use pattern. Now I've just introduced a
level of detail and complexity that is
actually immeasurable. So, what seems
like an honest but perhaps simplified
question, hey, good deal. You built a
gigawatt solar plant, that's really big.
How much CO2 does it take off the grid
in California? Is really an almost
unanswerable question. So, what we need
to do is ask one another questions that
can be logically answered and addressed
and then be measured against one another
as we look at different opportunities.
So it's it's it's a challenge and it's a
problem that many are working to solve
and I think simplification of standards
is a big part of the answer.
>> We have a few minutes left. I usually
ask but I did not ask. Is there any
question that I didn't ask you that I
should have asked or you would like me
to have asked? Yeah, quite often I'm
asked if I'm optimistic
and uh and and I will tell you that I
am. The knowledge of these
inevitabilities
is, as I mentioned earlier, not always
pleasant. The fact that we are living on
a planet that is getting hotter, that is
becoming drier. But when you think about
taking action and making investments in
the face of these known inevitabilities,
it's a lot more rewarding than you might
think. And and I will also say that the
current moment is requiring us to live
in a split screen reality where on the
one hand we're hearing things, we're
seeing things in our feeds and they make
us wonder or doubt the judgment that we
have around certain work that we do.
certainly those of us in the climate and
sustainability space. But I would tell
you that if you if you anchor into the
inevitabilities of the work that we're
doing, providing clean water for decades
to come for large populations, providing
clean electricity to power the AI
revolution, this is addressing
inevitabilities, earning investors the
kinds of returns that they would like
from investments like this, and at the
same time really sort of helping us get
out of bed day after day to continue to
do this work. So, we really appreciate
your support for letting us get that
message of optimism out to folks.
>> Well, thank you for that. That was very
interesting and informative. And Bill,
thank you for joining us today on the
sustainability story. This has been a
great conversation.
[Music]
[Applause]
