Bitcoin reached $59,800. That
was the goal we had set for ourselves.
There are other objectives. We'll see if
we can potentially form a bottom
here or not. There are some
alarming signals on the trading side.
So I'm going to talk to you about it from the perspective of
American indices, especially regarding the option flow.
Just before we begin, I
remind you that you have free access
to the code report, mentorship,
accumulation strategies and
VIP on Discord. I published everything
this week. Joining us
is free. It's the first link in the
pinned comment. All you have to do is
register on Wix, there's our
partner link and be active on the
platform. Then, you just have to
be active in spot or futures trading. I
made a tutorial for you in the pinned comments
on the platform or on Discord. The
link is also possible.
Then you just have to register in the
form, it takes 2 seconds, it's
the second link in the pinned comment.
You enter your information here, then click
on "Get my access". You enter
your email address and your Wix ID. You
click on submit my access request.
At that point, the
Discord link appears. Click on it,
go to the Discord
registration channel and enter this
command /AF. You choose
Wix affiliation, you enter your UID, you
click on enter, this will allow you
to link your Wix account to your
Discord account and you will unlock
the crypto VIP rooms here. This is where
I shared the
accumulation strategies for these assets. I will
add others, but these are
really the assets that
I personally monitor. And you
also have here the market review
report code which was published last night
to find out what the
institutions are doing this week and it's very
interesting. And we'll talk about it
publicly as usual on the dollar
index, and I think I'll
also talk about oil exceptionally.
So, to get here on BTC, we
reached $59,800. That was
the objective of this consolidation,
manipulation, and expansion. So here is the
consolidation, the manipulation phase
which came to recover the stops in
the ferval value gap zone on a monthly basis.
So personally, I thought the
bottom wasn't in for the reasons
I've already explained.
For what ? Because I don't think that's
an area where you
can bottom out. I'm not changing my mind again
. I think if we
were to bottom out, it would be below 49,000.
Will Bitcoin go there? I don't know
. But what I
explained to you is that basically for me, there is
no suffering here on these
levels. That is to say, if we look at
the average volume and how it has
deployed, this is an area in which
investors have taken exposure.
And often bottoms form in
panic and surrender. And to
conclude, for me, it forms in
the trough areas in the volume
profile. For what ? Simply
because it considered that as a
support zone. The next support is
here. So those who bought there, to
scare them, you have to come to the
hollow. And the trough here is between
53000 and 45000. And so that's what
the volume tells me. Based on what the price tells me,
if there is ever a
bearish leg, and there often is one,
the market will purge the stops and
liquidations on the derivative product, and
often this is what forms the excesses, and
the bearish excess would be below this
low point here at $49,000. Now, are we going to
go? I don't know,
but honestly I don't think
the bottom is here. Now, from a
technical and fundamental point of view,
we are in interesting areas.
For what ? On the one hand, because we are
in the average production price, if you
are an investor and you don't buy
Bitcoin here, honestly, it can be
considered a mistake because we
are on average production prices.
Again, tell yourself that by 2028,
the production price will double. It will
go between $1600 and $90000. What does that
mean? This means that
Bitcoin in 2028 at the next halving, if
the hash rate doesn't collapse, we won't see it back
at 60,000. This means that there is
an asymmetry there. There is an
opportunity, uh, there is a
statistical asymmetry. This is an
extremely interesting opportunity for an
investor. I'm not saying that if you
buy here, you're going to make money. That's
not at all what I'm saying. What
I am simply saying is that
someone who comes here to expose themselves to
$60,000 on Bitcoin is
someone who statistically has a high
probability post-halving of being in
latent profit, of having made a
profitable investment. Unless
Bitcoin disappears, unless quantum computing
kills Bitcoin, unless the hash rate has
lost 90% because, uh, all the
mining farms have switched to AI because
nobody believes in Bitcoin anymore. What if
, what if, what if. But again,
when you're an investor, of course, you have to
weigh the pros and cons.
Personally, I don't think
Bitcoin will disappear. So, these are the
areas of interest. From a technical point of view
, once again, it's a
little bit different. Here, I'm talking about
fundamental value. Basically,
we're in some really
interesting areas. From a technical point of view
, it's even a little bit
lower. Let me explain. And 618 already,
that's a very nice area, that's 57755.
We're not going to quibble, we'll say we're
already there. Also, what we can see
here is that we are on the MA2 weekly.
What you need to know is that the
weekly MA2 is historically a good
long-term buying zone. We're not
far from the bottoms. I don't have
the full history here, but we have bottoms in
previous cycles on the MA2 weekly chart.
That wasn't the case in the
2022 cycle, but we bottomed a little bit
lower. But anyway, often
when we look back at the MA2 weekly,
it's not bad. Bitcoin often does what it does is
come bottom into the
long-term reload zone and this
long-term reload zone here
is between 39000 and 57000
dollars. So we're really getting into some
super interesting technical areas.
Secondly, we also have the VWAP of the
entire cycle. VWAP is an
extremely interesting piece of data. When
we come back to it, we have to say that roughly
half, well, we have to say that
investors are a break-even in
quotes.
So the pressure from the seller fades away
. On the other hand, what we can
have is a capitulation, therefore a
phase of panic under this VWAP. So
everything that is under the VO longer
term. Wait there, you have to say,
what is he telling us? It's
true that we can't see her at all here.
Give me two seconds. I
need to be able to display it clearly for you. Here
, then. So. I think that will be quite obvious
. That's the long-term VWAP.
See, that's actually been the price
throughout the bull run; it stayed above
that VWAP. Here we come back to that. It
's roughly around 53000.
Consider that under the VWAP, it's a
very good investment. On the VWAP,
it's a very good investment. Very
close to the VWAP as well. But
frankly, that's an asymmetry
when you're underneath. This is an
extremely interesting opportunity.
So if we ever fall below 53000, we
will be in
extremely interesting investment zones for Bitcoin.
Now, what we will need to monitor
over the next few months is the
BTC hash rate. because if the hash
rate continues to fall, of course the
fundamental value of Bitcoin falls a
little bit and so that is what makes it
possible to achieve other objectives.
But here we see that the hash rate
is decreasing a little bit,
but it's not
collapsing either. If we look at the long
term, it's not the end of the world.
There have already been drops in hash rate here.
So that's important to know.
Give me two seconds, I'll
fix it properly. Hey, I don't really like
overloading my graphs. There you go, now
I know that it's interesting at these levels
. I take that back. The
production price floor, that's
really only if there's a monumental crash;
we know that the
current fundamental floor value is around
34,000. Again, you shouldn't
reason based on 34,000. OK? The difficulty will
readjust, it will decrease a little, it
could drop to around 30,000. But
again, you have to think
intelligently. If we think
intelligently and consider
investment, what will the minimum production price be
in 2028? Ah well,
it will be around 60000 or maybe
50000. If the hash rate has decreased
sharply, if it has lost another 20 30%,
which is plausible because of AI and
so on. Ah well, if I buy at 60-50, I
'm really in some
interesting areas. This will be the future
floor price of 2028. So it will be a
potentially interesting investment; again, I'm not
saying you should invest in
Bitcoin, far from it. Once again
everyone does what they want but from a
probability, fundamental value and so on point of view
, market symmetry
between 50 and 60 we are already in
areas where we are on the future
floor production prices. I'm not saying
means, I'm saying floor plan. Areas that
are very rarely reached in
the history of Bitcoin. It may have been
reached once or twice at most.
once during Covid and I believe that's
the only time it was
reached. So if we ever reach
50 and so on, there are big
asymmetries because the floor price in
2028 will probably be above 50000.
So these are prices we
probably won't see again in 2028. So if it
happens to be offered in 2026 or 2027,
it's extremely interesting while
people are asleep at the wheel regarding Bitcoin, it will
probably be interesting.
Then now we're in the lower part of the market
, so this was really for the
investors. Now, in terms
of pure technical analysis, can we
validate the bottom here? No. OK, we ca
n't confirm a technical bottom yet
. The first signal that
I personally often observe is
at least, it's really the first, it
's very aggressive but it's at least
liquidity intake, green candle. That's
really the kind of thing where you think OK,
something is happening like here for
example or uh the order block daily. So that is
to say, a break of the last
bearish candle, a ferval gap is
forming. Often there is an OB and so it
marks a support point and the market
is entering consolidation. At this point we
can say, "OK, something's happening."
For now, there's none of that.
Does this mean we shouldn't
buy Bitcoin here? From my point of
view, once again, it depends on the
individual. I'm not saying here that what I'm
actually saying is that from a technical point of view
, there is no bottom and
maybe it will emerge later.
Personally, I don't think the
bottom is here. Once again,
now since the breaker, we are
definitely in a rich flu, OK? But
a quarter
of downward expansion has not yet been confirmed. OK? If you
look at the quarterly candle,
certainly it is in the red and that
signals an expansion probably for
the next quarter, but again
, we are at the level of the low of the
previous quarter. So, we can't
say that we're in a quarter of
continued decline. The term
ends at the end of June. Will we break out of
the range before the end of June and thus
enter a quarter
of expansion and perhaps form the
bottom for this summer? Or on the contrary, now that we've
returned to
the bottom of the range, what exactly is the market going to
do? to
move on, come back to work a little bit on what he
left behind and
then break the range and that will be the
expansion quarter. That's plausible.
But we can't say "Ah, the
range is broken" yet. So, knowing that we
are on a ban range and that we have chased
the stops for those who are short,
taking profit is mandatory.
Also here, uh, we are in areas where
profit can be taken from short positions, and what
I wanted to show you is the
option flow. The option feed is still
extremely profitable here on
Bitcoin. Next, I'll talk a little
about macro because it's interesting
and you need to understand what's happening
in traditional finance with
Bitcoin. The Dex yesterday was at -2.4
billion and the JEX at -50 million.
So when the GEX is negative and
the Dex is negative, dealers are
forced to sell spot. So that's what
accentuates the decline. Today, the
data shows us that we are at -1.9
billion and that we are at 30 million. This
means that on $60,000,
option traders, who are often
institutional investors, do not increase their
bets on the downside. They are in the process of
reducing them. That doesn't mean it's going to go back to
the Moon. That doesn't mean
they are speculating on a
rise. This means that even
options traders are starting to
take their profits. So right now, the market is
still extremely unprofitable and
dealers are still forced to sell
spot. He could slowly start buying more
if we exceed
$61,900, and frankly, that's very, very
low. Uh, and if it still
sells, there's a major target of 60,
we were talking about it, it's already been reached. The
second target on the options, the
next one is 58 and 55000. So that's
really if we start to break out
of the range, we go down. Now,
for me, the fact that the Dex and the JX
are so negative gives me
the impression that there is a greater
probability of encountering
still quite strong selling pressure, therefore having
rather weak rebounds and
potentially breaking the range.
Now I will check the data option with
you every day, to see if it changes.
For example, if we see the Dex and the JEX
rising, then we would say OK, the market
may be pricing in a retracement, which
is not the case here at all yet. These
are simply profit-taking actions in the
options market. Secondly, there are
derivative products. As for
derivative products, then, wait. I'm going to
update it because it's not up to
date right now. I told you about
long exposures that can
trigger a cascade of liquidations and
we are still potentially in that
scenario. So the first major objective has
been achieved, which is this
stop zone right here. So here we see that
the stops are bought back but it doesn't
trigger anything again for the moment. But
what I did here was
show you the exposure of the long ones.
And so what I'm quickly showing you here
is what percentage of the
long lines have been closed. Well, this is
n't Fibonacci, is it? I'm not showing any
Fibonacci ratios here. This is just to
show roughly that 33% of the
long positions that opened on this
movement have closed. That's
extremely low. On the other hand, on the
short side here, it has
closed extremely on the rise. The shorts have all
practically surrendered and now they are starting
to rise again. But again,
we are very far from the short peak we
had at the bottom here. What does that mean?
That means we have a big
asymmetry, long shorts. Basically,
what's scary about this movement is that
only 33% of the long positions were
closed. And that's scary.
For what ? because we are in the same
place with three times more I'm exaggerating
but we are in the same place with
much more long than before than
when we were here and on this
movement we are talking about a
25% drop and even if I take
from the top we are on a drop of 27
28% only 33% of the longs were
closed the longs here which have started to
reopen. So what we know is that there are a
lot of people who
bought into this movement who are
praying that it will recover and that they won't get
liquidated. So, we are in a
market that can seek what is
called a margin call. What is a margin call
? It was the traders who
refused to close their positions who were
completely liquidated. And here we're talking about
hundreds of millions or even billions
of dollars in liquidation. And that
can accentuate the downward movement. And
when I see this data, I tell myself that it
is extremely likely,
unfortunately, to beat up these people
because it's not normal. The fact that we've
come back to 59000 and that the guys haven't
closed their long lines, of course some
long lines have closed and that we
still have a majority of these long lines
open, that's not normal. It can mean
either of two things, and in any
case, it's not a good thing.
Either there have been a lot of new
long lines opened on this deep and people
are in deep-market trading mode with leverage and that
stinks. Either people simply
refuse to close their positions. There haven't been a
lot of new long positions
opened, but people are refusing to close
their positions and that stinks too.
In any case, this data
is catastrophic for me.
That's what we're supposed to see, actually. We're supposed to see
people panicking, their long pants
massively closing, their shorts
massively opening. That's not the case
here. So the market psychology for
me here is still in Ah, this is
an opportunity. The last time
I saw that, and I remember it and I was talking about it
, I remember it like it was
yesterday, it was when I was 6 years old, it was during
Covid. I'm not saying we're going to have a
Covid 2.0, far from it. What I'm saying
is that people's psychological state
is the same as when we were here.
So, I don't know if
I can show it to you normally on this chart.
Yes. Uh, if I remember correctly,
the data was already there. So. I
remember it looking like this. I
mean, I remember that in
2020, I'm not saying that this is going to
happen again, far from it, what
I'm saying is that
psychologically, I remember
seeing my entire Twitter account saying "Oh my god, this is
the opportunity of the century,
Bitcoin here, then boom." And then,
nobody wanted to buy anything anymore, in a "Oh dear
, it's the end of the world" kind of way. So,
fundamentally, it's different because there was
a big
fundamental catalyst that could make the
legs rich, but I feel
that psychologically, it's somewhat
similar. That is to say, everyone is
thinking, "Ah, this is an opportunity, ah, it's a
long shot, ah, we have to buy. Ah, it's good
that Bitcoin is falling, we're happy." I don't
see any fear or
trauma here yet. So that leads me to
believe we can look for it further
down. And for me, the data, and this is
n't my feeling, it's what I see
in the data. The data confirms that for me.
Only 33% of the long lines were
closed. That's not normal. If we were
here on almost all the long closed courses,
I would say to myself, it's all good, the guys have been cleared out
, they have all closed their
positions. But what I see here is
already praying, hoping that things will
turn around so they don't get liquidated. And
knowing that we've already lost 20% here,
for me, if you're a serious trader, you
've already activated your stop. If you have
too much leverage, you've already been
liquidated. On the other hand, if you are someone
who saw this as an opportunity to
enter with low leverage, then
liquidations are
theoretically lower. And what's further down?
That's on average, people often go for
long leverage x 2, leverage x 3. So we're
talking about 50% to 33% lower
theoretically. Uh, for example, someone
who has long held Bitcoin with 3x leverage and has
n't taken their profits, they get
liquidated at around
$45,000. Someone who has the long, I do
n't know, the x2 leverage in the 80000
and says it's good, it's going back to the moon thing,
well, he
also gets liquidated in the roughly 40000
dollars and so on. What I mean is this is
an
extraordinary opportunity to place limit orders
on the spot if there is a cascade
of liquidations because this kind of
data here can indicate that there is a
cascade of liquidations that may be
preparing potentially.
What is a liquidation cascade for those who are just
starting out? Basically, when people
bet on derivatives, they
are betting on the rise, they can have
their position liquidated or invalidated. When you bet on a price
increase and your position closes, that's
a market sale. In fact,
imagine a domino effect, this guy gets
liquidated, which causes a sale on the
market, which triggers the liquidation of the
next one, who sells on the market, which lowers
the price even further, who liquidates
the next one and in fact there you go, it creates a
domino effect and boom boom boom, it
falls like that. And that, in fact, represents
huge opportunities for
spot investors without leverage, once again,
if that were to happen. So my
personal recommendation on this kind
of market is don't hesitate to
bomb the bases very low, there are never
these kinds of movements that can
happen. For what ? because we are
starting to see this kind of movement
in the American indices. That's a
squeeze here. Too many people have been
exposed for long periods. The market is snapping them
all up. And if this
momentum here does not reverse,
that is to say if we are really in what is
called a gamma squeeze and that is what
I am seeing
on the options and that is scary. That's what
I wanted to talk about especially
on the translation here, that's the
most interesting information of
what I'm going to show you here on the
options. Something's already happening. We
talked about it at the beginning of the week, uh, the
beginning of this week, what were we saying?
We were saying, be careful, the Dex and the GEX are being
massively reduced. What does that mean? This
means there is massive institutional edge
on the indices. It didn't fail.
They were once again at the top.
The code report, which I mentioned
last week, also shows
signs of edge. For those who saw
yesterday's report for VIPs, you can see
that this sign of potential edge is
continuing. Now, what
interests me here is
combining the code with the options. And so,
regarding the options, from what I
see, on the NASDAQ, we
now have a Dex and a GEX that are
negative here. So the options market is
officially a seller. That's what you need to
know. So be careful about that. That's why
I said we have a
game squeeze. Buyers on
options got wiped out, are
forced to close their positions. And so that's what
triggered this big
downward movement that we saw. And it
can actually continue. It simply depends on
how far the machine is going to go
. If too many guys have
bought options and are
forced to close them in a panic, it
could really fall even further. We
need to be careful. What we experienced
here is not normal. Indices
losing 4.8% in a single day is not
normal. There's something, there's a
mechanism that has broken down, and that's the
options market. It could be even more
disastrous if this continues. That's what we'll need to
observe
next week, and that's why
I'm telling you to be
careful with BTC. I'm not saying you should
come here to short Bitcoin, far from it. I'm just
saying that asymmetry and
opportunity are basically just about setting
limits. And I'll explain
why. Because we know there are
plenty of guys who are still holding out and have
n't closed their position. And here
we see that there is a risk of
a continuation of the downward trend in the indices
because there is a gamma squeeze. So
the point is not to say "Ah, the throne
tells us that it can fall. Go ahead,
I'm an idiot, I'm going to come and short
here." No way. The short zone is
the monthly iron valuap. It's not there
, it's not here. You wake up,
you say, hey, I'm going to short.
What is opportunity? I'm
smart, I don't use leverage, I'm going to take
advantage of the symmetry, I'm going to screw it up
, I'm going to bombard the B limit if
I want to invest in Bitcoin because
eventually it could be a
sign of a second leg because
of what we have on the order flow.
So what I
showed you 2 seconds ago, too many
buyers here still haven't
closed their positions. And the 2nd risk which
comes from traditional finance and
then I will talk to you about the other
markets and we are starting to see that there
may be margin calls which are
triggered on the trade but I will
talk about that later here on the option flow
a gamma squeeze which is
happening which is forcing dealers
now to sell massively and
some institutional investors probably
who are forced to unwind their
position probably at a profit. We don't really care
. We shouldn't assume that
the institutions are losing
money. The institutions, they're not
the idiots who came
here in droves to buy big
calls, huh. They did it there on that
kind of dip. They did it when we
were at our bottom in April. They
reinforced it here. It's profit-taking,
in fact. But if everyone starts
taking their profits at the same time and
you have other people who start getting
massively liquidated, well if
this Gamascou continues like this, I'm
not saying it will happen, but it's a
possibility that there will be a second
leg and that has a strong impact on
cryptos. And so here, I'm talking about the
SNP 500, right where it's really
more alarming. We had one Dex at +197
billion and one at +52 billion. So
the dealers were forced to buy back
the spot. We started to see the hedge
here. So it started to fall
until it reached, as we were talking about yesterday,
28 billion. We still went from
197 to 28 with a G this time which
was already negative from June 4th.
So in fact, short-term dealers
are really forced to sell spot money
directly. So it's a
sales pressure tactic. And that's when we see the
deck collapse. What does that mean? This
means that the calls are being
sold massively. So
profits are being priced off
massively and everyone is
abandoning ship. In fact, that doesn't
mean we're at a
definitive top. It's just that there's
an asymmetry between buyer and seller
where all the top buyers
looked at each other and said, "Ah damn,
now's the time to sell
." And so, well, everyone is
abandoning ship. This is what is
creating this large downward movement.
Of course, they will probably buy back
afterwards because it remains a
sky market for American indices. Those who
fantasize about a bulldozer exploding in a
1927, 2008 crash, maybe they'll be
right one day, but you can't
predict that kind of thing. Well,
it's true that what's
happening with stocks looks like a bubble,
but again, it could burst
in 1 year, 2 years, it could burst
now. In short, if we assume
that it's not about to explode, it's
still a market too. It's just that
all the buyers are being looked at
squarely in the eyes, they're thinking "Oh [ __ ],
nobody's buying us anymore, we
have to take our profits, we have to get out of here
." That's why we're seeing this big
downward movement in the indices. And so
here on the other hand the
deck is now at -84 billion, which
confirms the gamma squeeze. That's why we're seeing
this big
downward movement. And now the GX is at -19
billion. What does that mean? This
means they are forced to sell off the
market on a massive scale. And so we end up
with lots of buyers who have
taken their profit and the market maker and
the dealers who are forced to
sell. And that's what's causing this
big downward movement. That's why
I'm telling you that if the machine does
n't reverse quickly, it could
theoretically fall even lower. We'll see
later, based on the clues, how far it
might go. Now the
options market is already showing values ​​of 7300 and
so on. I don't know how many of us there are here
? The closing price is at 7004.
So there are already major levels at
7375. We'll see if it buys back on those
values. Otherwise it's 7300. So there's
still a little bit of play and it
could go up to 7225. So it's not
the end of the world just yet
. Uh, it's not
that serious. And so if things
really start to get out of hand, uh we
see that the first zones are
theoretically in its faugap. So on
the Nasdaq it's between 28690 and 27900.
It's not the end of the world. If we
look at the last swing high, it's there,
26800 would be the TH. If things really take a turn for the
worse, it could return to its
values, but it will be another opportunity,
meaning that this
looks like a bottom of an impulse, and
so if it falls sharply,
falling as it theoretically rose
, it could perhaps return to
its swing high of 26800. Again
, I'm just saying this, but maybe it's a
good sign. Next week, we're going all the way to
the moon again, it's possible.
Momentum is super strong. We'll just have to
see if the feed option confirms the
gamez pass. And there, I was talking to you, this
video is going to be finally, it's already long, and
I was talking to you precisely about, uh, there is
potentially, I would say, margin
col, well, it's not really margin
col, but there is probably a need for
liquidity when it falls like that on
stocks and indices and so it
can force selling the crypto market,
it can force selling gold here for
example which is getting smashed. But
the real thing we're seeing is that
yesterday's economic figures were
so good. An NFP of 172,000 puts a
stop to the party for lowering rates.
The economy is too strong. The FA is
completely blocked from lowering
rates. That's precisely what caused the
dollar to boom and trigger
this movement here. He is freeing himself
from these areas of ferval
Gable. So the dollar could come and
visit these areas and that of course puts
stress on risky assets. But above all, it's
mostly about gam squeiz.
Too many buyers who are making a profit, too many
people who are making a profit, and
when everyone leaves the ship at the
same time, well, that's what happens. So, well, we'll have to
wait and see how long it takes to
find buyers again, and so on and so
forth. And Bitcoin was already in
this downward movement. We can see that
Bitcoin was already falling, but that
could have been a -15% - 10% drop on
Bitcoin, it didn't happen. So we know
here that there are still
potentially institutional buyers who are
interested or especially people who are
taking their profit on its
downward movement. So that's interesting to
note.
I have nothing more to say. I think I've
covered all the
important information. So the key takeaway
is that it's not the end
of the world for BTC. Far from it. We are arriving
at fundamental and
technical values ​​that are interesting in the long term.
The risk is that there could
potentially be a long, strong squeeze
due to people who are exposed to
derivatives. If that ever happens, it does
n't mean you should be the idiot who
buys the glass from the fall because
you too risk getting
liquidated quite simply. The idea is to
buy spot care calmly and
send it in the toilet and
let it sit. From my point of view,
and this is not
investment advice, it's just
personally what I would do if I were doing
this kind of strategy
and then let it sit since we will be at, uh, half
the
production price of 2028. So if it's an
investment horizon of 2, 3, 4 years, well, it
will probably be an investment
that can be in the right profile
eventually. Uh, then, the second
thing I was going to say, yes, is the
targets for reduction. If I ever break the range
, uh, what I
always do is calculate the
extensions of the previous move. So,
for example, here is an objective that has been
achieved. The target was between 69
and 62. We stopped there, we consolidated
here. If history repeats itself, this
time it would be between 45900 and 36500.
If we really break the range, these would be
targets. And I've also included
the AB = CD objective for this movement. So
we take this downward leg, we
project it to the level of this peak and that
gives us a target of
$44235. This would simply allow us
to go back and work the
ferval value that we left open here
between 44100 and 7 cell at 48696.
In fact, this is the
trough in the volume profile. Hop. So.
This is really the area where things
get extremely interesting here. If there's ever
a cascade of liquidations, for
me, we need to bomb the borderline spots
here. Uh, I'm quickly going to talk
about Etherium, which really messed up its
range there. Finally, yeah, it's clearly
a range breakout here, regardless
of the weekly close, but well, it certainly
looks like it's breaking out. Uh,
major objective, I've already talked about it. So, on
the CME, that has already been achieved. We might as well take a
quick look at this. There you go,
the 2025 low has been
delivered. So here, we are already in
interesting areas on the CME, except that for
us in the Perf market, it is more
the lowest of 2025 and even this
liquidity grab and making it valuable. So
I would say between 1227 and 1376. I
think it's more likely that
we'll see
massive buyers on Ether around these levels. I wouldn't be surprised if we go.
And likewise, these are
interesting spot opportunities.
Look at Ethereum, what it's been doing
here for months, even years, it's
in a long-term range. So the idea
is to buy the bottom of the range and
resell the top, make a profit
if it breaks, enjoy riding and
simply sell the broken part of the range on the
climb. So it might be in
several years. But in any case, these are
price zones that are becoming
interesting again. Just in the short term,
I clearly don't think we're going to
bottom here. I think Ethereum has
plenty of room to
recover its 2025 yearly low
below 1384
here. The difference with Bitcoin is that, in this
case on Ethereum, most of
the long positions that were opened
recently are already all closed. Here,
not many people have dared to go the long way, well, that's
different. Look at all
those who have long been closed on Ethereum. There are a
lot of shorts. So I think
the next rebound could be
stronger on Ethereum. Just because I
say that doesn't mean you have to come back again,
the real ones, not at all. It
just means that below the 2025 low,
below 1380, if you are a spot buyer,
uh you could possibly resell the
valuap funds that we are
creating. So between 100 and 1600, there
can be interesting swings, but only
in the spot once again. That is to say,
you buy long term but you tell yourself
that you can possibly
easily resell between 1700 and 1900 in the
coming weeks below the low
of 2025. This makes for swings
which can be interesting.
Taking initial profits to
reduce risk could be
interesting, but for me at least
not before $1380. And so here
we see that we are starting to have a
record number of short positions here on Ether. So
perhaps there will be a big short
squeeze coming on Ethereum. Perhaps
stronger rebounds than on BTC. I'll
stop here. Long video but there was quite a lot
to see. I do
n't think I'll make a video tomorrow. If you liked it
, don't hesitate to smash that like
button, subscribe, and leave
a comment. Thank you very much.
I remind you of all the links in the
info bar, the accumulation strategies,
the code report, the VIP on the Discord. Well, perhaps
I'll give you
updates on my
market positioning if you're
interested. I'm still featured on
my Tao shorts here where I've already recouped
some profits. My goal is
always to play under 140. I was
talking about that on that rebound. Tao is doing Tao,
he came to fulfill his ferugap. In
my opinion, it will fall back below 140 and that will be
good spot buying zones. In
any case, this is where I intend to
take my final profits on this
position. I'll stop here. We'll
probably meet again on Monday, or maybe
tomorrow if the market has moved.
