Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you [music]
on the ground conversations with
business leaders, educators, and
industry [music] colleagues from around
the globe. Educational Alpha is
sponsored by I Capital, the financial
technology company with the mission to
power [music] the world's alternative
investment marketplace. Part innovator,
part educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives [music] industry, IC
Capital offers intuitive, scalable
digital solutions [music] that have
transformed how private market and hedge
fund investments are bought and sold.
With I Capital, financial adviserss,
wealth managers, and asset managers
around the world now have access to
everything they need to deliver the
return and diversification potential of
alternatives to high- netw worth [music]
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, host [music] Bill Kelly
speaks with Andreas Bzner, CEO and
co-founder of Stapleton to explore how
secondary markets are transforming
[music] access to latestage private tech
companies. Andrea shares his
entrepreneurial journey, the evolution
of Stapleton, and the creation of the
top 20 Unicorn Index Fund. The
conversation unpacks the value of
secondary market access, the convergence
of public and private equity, and how
investors can tap into innovation
without traditional barriers like high
minimums and illquidity. Andre also
reflects on trust, [music] transparency,
and the future of capital markets.
>> Andreas [music] Bezner, welcome to
Educational Alfred.
>> Hi, Bill. Great to have me. Thanks for
inviting.
>> It's great to see you again. And we're
going to get into this in a moment, but
I went back and looked at my past
experience and when we first met and I
believe it was in your offices in Zurich
in 2022. We recorded a set of videos. I
think they're somewhere out on LinkedIn
and social media. So, anybody can go
back and see those. And I think it was
semi early stages for Sapleton. I know
you've been around probably seven years.
So, this is maybe a little bit more than
halfway through the life cycle. And it
was very interesting conversation. As I
recall, we did a survey with our
Swissbased Kaya members with you folks
as well, and we'd get into some of that
in a moment, too. But maybe a little bit
of your background and experience, and I
would put you in the serial entrepreneur
category based on some of the things
you've done with some successful exits,
which I think was a very good setup for
what you're doing at Stableton, but
maybe a little bit on your prior
experience.
>> So, I'm German by origin. In the
meantime, I'm living over 15 years in
Switzerland. I also have a Swiss
passport. I studied economics, wrote my
thesis about the secondary market for
private equity. Then I joined Ernston
Young as a transaction advisory analyst.
Then I moved to Switzerland to work for
a private equity company where I managed
a Swiss exchange listed technology fund.
Then I set up my own hedge fund firm in
2006 with a focus on long short equity
strategies with a focus on technology. I
scaled that to a team of 12 people, 150
million in assets. Then I sold my stake.
Was a pretty good experience as a young
man going through the great financial
crisis. But we made it. We were positive
in 2007 and 8. And then after I exited,
I was spending my time working with
emerging managers, alternative
investment fund managers to set up shop,
launch and distribute the products, get
through regulatory projects. But I was
still managing money for wealth manager
in the family office space. And that's
when I came up with the idea to found
Stapleton because mixing alternative
investments and the needs of a wealth
manager or the wealth channel, it was
just like mixing oil and water. It never
really mixed. And so we thought, well,
let's create a new offering where we
would bring alternative investments to
the wealth channel in Switzerland where
we would wrap strategies into
performance and replicate the
performance via certificates and allow
investors to get access to those. So it
was really the access problem. Then in
2020 we were doing the first growth
equity deals and we saw that this is
really the strong demand by investors.
So we thought okay how can we get a
consistent way to access the greatest
growth equity companies in the world.
And then all my experience from the past
came back together transaction advisory
work longshot equity hedge fun
management but especially my knowledge
and interest for the secondary market.
So we then 100% focused on providing
access to latest stage venture capital
back companies through the secondary
market and were basically 100% focusing
on offering and so now we are basically
one of the I would say global leaders in
direct secondaries and manage index
funds with stable we are Swiss firm 28
people more than 400 million in assets
so that's where we are it's going pretty
well
>> excellent and the origin of the name
Stapleton I assume stable has something
to do with it but maybe that's my
English translation I missed it.
>> Yeah, stable that was basically from the
old days where we want to provide stable
returns through alternative investments
to our end clients. Of course, those
stable returns have become a little bit
more volatile with basically focusing on
private blue chip tech companies, but
still it's still a fairly good name to
be a stable partner to provide
highquality investment opportunities to
our clients.
>> Thanks for that background. And as I
alluded to in my opening remarks, I went
back and looked at this joint survey we
did with you and your team and I think
it was just our Swiss base of Kaya
members and I think there were five
points that were raised coming out of
that and one of them was the access
problem which you just alluded to and
manager selection and due diligence is
everything if you're going through a GP
but you seem to have solved for that by
I don't know if bypassing is the right
word but going direct to the secondary
market to the holding themselves. So
manager selection is not necessarily
part of the mix at all. Was that part of
the original design of Stapleton when
you first thought about solving for that
problem?
>> When we first started stable as
mentioned we were focusing on the
broader offering of alternative
investment. So here also an excess
problem was teaming up with the right
manager having the large minimums to
diversify and being able to deploy from
a bank or wealth manager point of view.
So you need that bankable to deploy that
to all your clients. But when we then
switched the focus only on growth
equity, we kept the original promise. We
wanted to solve problems for our core
customers, which are financial
intermediaries, the wealth channel, but
we have also expanding to institutional
investors, but they still have the same
problem. And the problem that private
markets investors have is that it
requires huge minimums. It's very
difficult to value them. You receive
infrequent reporting. client assets will
leave the bank to invest through private
contracts in these private companies. So
there is of course no incentive for the
banks necessarily to offer that to their
clients and hence it's important that
they have an eyes and they can be held
in custody by the banks. So they be they
are kind of within the mandate of our
clients. Something else was then the
problem of carry payments of capital
calls commitments which would make this
super difficult to deploy across all of
their clients. And so we thought okay
let's remove all of those frictions
remove the manager selection risk
because client relationship and they
don't want to lean out of the window.
And that's why if they do private market
investments, they like to go with the
global brand names KKR, Apollo, etc.
because you can't be fired by making
those investments. But they don't
necessarily need to lean out of the
window. So we solve that by not betting
on Stableton, but betting on our
underlying companies like SpaceX and
Stripe and Revolute and Data Bricks,
OpenAI, etc., which are in our
portfolio. So they're effectively
they're not betting on a manager but
I'll come to how we do this but they're
betting on a portfolio of existing
companies that they know. Secondly then
the access problem in order to be
participating in this market you will
need to otherwise build relationships to
very strong managers like Sequoia or
Andre and Horowits to potentially be
invested in some of those unicorns. But
through the secondary market you do not
need to commit capital to these funds.
You can also buy into the winners
through direct secondary transactions.
Then in terms of transparency, the
problem was that you just commit your
money to a manager that has historically
had a great performance and they say
that they are going to identify the next
big theme and the best companies and
then identify the future winners. In our
case, you're investing in an existing
portfolio of companies where everything
is known, the composition, the targets,
the valuations, the fees, everything is
known. So it makes it also much easier
when it comes to valuation. You can
already know what's it worth and because
there is a secondary market for these
companies which we hold like most
valuable private top 20 private blue
chip companies. So we value our
portfolio always based on secondary
market valuations on a marktomarket
base. So that risk is gone. And lastly
the high fees with fees on committed
capital which doesn't mean that this is
actually invested capital and the carry.
So we just take the took this analogy of
a lowcost index fund where you just have
a low ongoing fee on the assets under
management or on the NAV. So we've been
solving a number of problems and that
led to a great success because now it's
possible to be invested in private
markets without the hassle in an easy to
understand product. So that has been
really then taking off.
>> So I do want to spend a fair amount of
time in this unicorn top 20. Before we
get to that and just listening to you
now, Andreas, I'm curious to get your
views on alpha versus beta and maybe
I'll give some of my bias coming in.
Alpha is very difficult to find. Today's
alpha is tomorrow's beta. And if I think
about how maybe access to the private
markets is being sold around the world
is the alpha component to it. That may
or may not be true. And as you said,
today's great fund might be tomorrow's
dud. Who knows if this performance is
sustainable? And I once said to a
reporter when I talked about accessing
alts, it's really about trying to give
the investor exposure to beta they may
not be able to find in the public
markets. And where the alpha is going to
come from is how much you allocate to
each one of these beta sleeves. So the
asset allocation maybe becomes the
alpha. So when you think about creating
this top 20 unicorn product, is it
alpha, beta or both? In general, I think
it's a super interesting asset class to
be invested in. The problem is you
cannot participate it if you can't
invest in it. And even if you invest in
it and you pay higher amount of fees,
for example, as a proportion of
long-term expected returns of other
asset class, it's also not really beta
that you want to have if fees kill your
performance or if the hassle of
allocating is outweighing the additional
benefits of incremental positive
returns. So, in a way, we're really
focusing on beta, not trying to pick the
one or two winning companies, but bet on
all 20 instead. Of course, you could be
doing the home run if you invest in
early stage funds and you've got the
winner company. However, it's likely
better on average to invest just in all
companies and work on the fees just by
removing the fees, you're already much
better off. It's just exactly like how
Vanguard became so successful because on
average you can actually realize the
average and reduce what you can control
which are the fees and optimize the
access and the entry but not having an
opinion to outperform in terms of
selection. And then you've got that
alpha that we can hopefully create but
not because we select or do something
magic but just because we are investing
through secondary market transactions.
So the alpha in this respect would be
that we buy company shares from early
investors that are maybe common shares
or early preferred shares. So which
don't carry the same shareholder rights
or liquidation preferences. And then
you've got the liquidity discount.
Someone wants to sell and we've got
let's say worse shares compared to the
latest preferred shares of the last fund
raise. So that leads to a discount.
Sometimes the discount is also in terms
of timing. For example, if you're paying
the same price, but the company has
grown revenues 30% ever since, you're
already investing a discount based on
price multiples. And then that is
actually a source of alpha compared to
beta investing in primary fundraisers.
And that reason for the discount will go
away naturally if the company continues
to be successful. So the liquidation
preference really don't matter. If they
go public, all share class will collapse
into one. And hence this is an extra
basically boost to the long-term
performance of that asset class because
illustratively you can invest let's say
at 80% at a discount compound your value
because the companies may grow 20 to 50%
on average in their revenues and exit
when a company goes public and
potentially gets preipo or IPO premium
and then we repeat the same but in
general I think if we say an investor
should be participating for 3 to 5 years
then most of that performance will be
driven by the great fundamental growth
of these companies. instead of that
additional alpha component. So the
longer you hold, the more beta it is.
>> And one followup and we can move on from
this. And this I think something we
discussed before we hit the record
button about companies staying private
longer and maybe in some cases forever.
And if I'm thinking about myself as an
investor, every investor should want
exposure to innovation in their
portfolio. But if a lot of that
innovation is happening in the early to
late stage VC market, I can't get that
in the public market. So if nothing
else, if I'm thinking about a beta
component that will lead to alpha, as
you just described it, potentially lead
to alpha, I can't really get that
innovation exposure. At least I don't
think I can. Is that part of the
dynamic? Not so much for Stapleton,
maybe it is, but part of the dynamic as
to why a fund like this exists in the
first place.
>> Everyone knows that companies stay
private for longer. Historically,
they've been going public much, much
earlier than today. Why would a company
go public in the first place? It's
because they either need to raise money,
which they can now do basically every
amount in the private market space, or
because their investors want liquidity
at the IPO or after the IPO. But these
companies, they are maybe already
profitable. 50% of our companies in the
top 20 portfolio are profitable. They
have positive cash flows. They don't
need to raise. So, hence, they could
stay private forever. And if they've got
single investors that want to exit, they
can just utilize the direct secondaries
market to exit whenever they want at
their own discretion without forcing the
company to go public. So that means that
a company would likely only go public if
they have an advantage. That maybe being
public is an asset and not a burden by
disclosure and regulations. Or that the
growth slows to such a degree that the
private market returns will not justify
the returns for a private market
investor and then the company will go
public at a let's say slower growth,
higher valuation and then it's a great
outcome for the company to go public.
But I continue to see companies stay
private for longer. Some will never go
public, but the private and the public
market space will converge even more.
Just some illustration, the public
market is likely 99.9%
a secondary market where investors sell
shares to each other all the time, but
hardly used for fundraisers. The private
market space has been historically in
100% fund raise and no secondary market.
So now there are different estimates but
I would all say it's between maybe 2 and
5% secondary market but that proportion
is going to increase significantly. So
it will actually converge. So it's
actually happening that there is like a
private stock exchange even though it's
fragmented happening on different places
or directly with shareholders but it's
getting much much more liquid compared
to previously. So it's great you don't
have the burden of being public but you
still have the liquidity in the
secondary market. companies can grow,
have long-term shareholders, long-term
views without the burden to report
quarterly and meet analysts expectations
on a very short-term basis.
>> It's interesting on that point of the
secondary market, Andreas, and maybe I'm
thinking of specifically the buyout
space and maybe it's broader capital
markets that I had a number like 1% in
mind. You said two to five, but
regardless one two to five it is a small
number and I absolutely agree with your
thesis in that not only did we see it in
the institutional space where markets
freeze up over time and institutional
investors have needs. These pesky
pensioners need to get paid every two
weeks. So you need to have some level
liquidity. They want to invest in the
next vintage fund. And then as you're
getting greater access to the individual
investor and you've got interval funds
in the states offering 5% liquidity
every single quarter, I think a
maturation of any market naturally is
greater depth in the secondary market.
So I think you're spot on to think that
this was just a phenomena that's going
to go away again. And we saw the
secondary spaces maybe a bit of a crisis
window coming out of the GFC, but I
think we come out of this liquidity
freeze. Not only is it here to stay, I
think we want to need greater depth
there. Yeah, 100% agree. You have more
solutions to create liquidity in terms
of direct secondaries, LP secondaries,
continuation funds, n financing, all the
different tools to provide at least some
liquidity. When I'm talking about our
space, it's of course more liquid than
let's say a buyout of a mid-market
company or smaller company. What creates
the highest amount of liquidity if
you've got standardized products like a
future exchange or currencies or large
cap stock market companies. But those
companies are so large already in value.
So they've got 10 billion to 400 billion
in valuations and it's not standardized
yet, but there's a lot of interest. So
that also facilitates you've got new
platforms, you've got more information,
you've got ratings, you've indices,
you've got market participants and that
also creates more liquidity and helps
then to make that even more liquid.
>> And maybe just as a public service
announcement for the listeners, just
because liquidity is there doesn't mean
you should be taking it every single
time it's offered. I think it's a
natural release val. And I think
investors particularly of the individual
variety have a tendency to come in and
out of these markets at the most
inopportune times and having a good
asset allocation mix and staying fully
invested. I think it serves the investor
well at the end of the day. But I do
want to turn to this unicorn top 20 fund
and spend a few minutes on that. Andrea,
so 20 names equally weighted not cap
weighted. Is that correct? 5% holding in
each one.
>> That is correct. The purpose of that
index is to provide broad diversified
exposure to that segment of the world's
most valuable privately held tech blue
chips. There is a broader unicorn series
done by morning pitchbook. It's a global
unicorn series including all unicorns in
existence. However, of course, that's
not physically replicatable. You can do
so many transactions and the liquidity
dries off significantly after number 30
to 50. But the top 20 unicorn fund is
physically replicating the morning
pitchbook unicorn select 20 index and
that's equal weight 5% allocated to the
most valuable 20 companies that also
have a liquid secondary market and are
from developed markets.
>> So the primary criteria then is it fair
to say billion dollar valuation and
reasonably good secondary price
discovery?
>> Yes, that's on a statistical basis. So
some companies like Whimo or
Checkout.com may be valuable based on
their last primary fundraising round,
but there's hardly any liquidity or none
in the secondary market. Hence, we
wouldn't be able to physically replicate
it. So it's removed, but you're
typically removing maximum 5 to 10% of
those companies. All other companies
typically have a more liquid secondary
market and that's basically naturally
driven because typically 50% plus of
those companies are held by business
angels early stage VCs employees with
vested stock options and they have a
liquidity need at one point in time
>> and I assume you don't necessarily go
into this with a sector bias but because
of the way the VC space has developed
and where the emphasis is this tech play
to a very large degree
>> regardless where you look if you Look at
the S&P 500 as well. So the tech is
driving the world and now of course
venture capitalists like to back
techdriven asset light very fast growing
high margin businesses and that's kind
of the case. So our portfolio consists
of four AI machine learning companies
then software consumer like Epic Games
or Discord or fintech companies like
Stripe Rex Chime or other like SpaceX or
Kraken. But that's the natural
evolution. But within the broader tech
ecosystem, the shift of the index can
vary depending on what's valuable,
what's not, just like in the NASDAQ 100.
So there were times where maybe
databases like Dropbox or Box were more,
you know, overweight or sometimes soft
as a service, sometimes fintech. And
today we definitely see a trend towards
more exposure to AI companies. But
that's also a positive because if you
bet on a certain theme, let's say you
had the great idea to bet on the
metaverse in 2021, you would be stuck in
metaverse stocks until 2030. And I'm not
sure if that's a good idea. So this
naturally really adjusting to what's
valuable and self adjusting without the
investor needing to switch themes. is
always following just in the NASDAQ and
of course it's driven by very large
successful companies that work on mega
trends have huge markets and hence
deserve the valuation that they're
having
>> and as this fund then continues to grow
and the underlying markets move not
always in lock step I assume there's
some rebalancing mechanism which you can
talk about but maybe trying to pull a
couple things together exits as well is
the only way one of these 20 names comes
out of this index is IPO or are there a
fundamental reasons why you take one of
these 20 names out.
>> The beautiful thing about an index
strategy is that it's based on a rule
book and the rule book has hard factors
when a company's included when it exits.
So every major index has a rule book. So
that also allows looking at the data to
go back in time and an analysis
basically every single day what
companies were included in the portfolio
and what were the reason why they may be
replaced. So with the Morning Star
pitchbook index, you use the pitchbook
data. So you can go back in time every
single quarter and see what companies
would have qualified based on the rule
book. So when you look back of the last
10 years, 69% of the cases when a
company left the index was because it
was acquired or going public and only in
25% of the cases the companies were
replaced by another large company. that
could happen because either they had a
down run or were unsuccessful and would
fall out of the top 30 or because
another company would make it actively
into the top 10 to replace one of the
existing companies. So there is some
buffer so you wouldn't immediately
follow if you're only top 21 first
company that's basically to create index
continuity but the biggest exit channel
is definitely an IPO and acquisition. So
as of today, we actually foresee there
will be more IPOs. But even if there
none, you could still rebalance the
index by having new companies join the
index and some others fall out and you
would then be utilizing the secondary
market to buy into the new companies or
selling the existing companies. We are
the secondary market alike.
>> And I don't know if it's a hardwired
portion of the rule book, but I think I
read somewhere that the holding post IPO
is 180 days. And oftentimes it seems
like with these IPOs and maybe these
rules are being rewritten in real time,
not your rules, the rules of the market,
but oftentimes that pop happens in the
initial trading sessions and trying to
capture that upside. Maybe that's a bit
of a fool's errand, but if it is 180
days post IPO, what's the thought
process behind that as a hardwired rule?
>> Well, you have restrictions. If you are
a private investor before the company
goes public, you are subject to a
lockup. There are companies that go
public where they may not raise assets
but allow for secondary liquidity. So
maybe then you have the opportunity to
sell earlier or if it's a direct listing
but most companies still have that lock
up where you're subject to. And of
course we've done a great analysis of
what happened after a company goes
public. Of course you have a documented
I think it's around about 24% first day
gain for tech IPOs over the last two
decades. Typically you've got that pop.
That's correct. And typically companies
go public more in positive market
environments when there's a lot of IPO
frenzy and people bid up those stock.
But even then after that pop fades out.
So you will still have a positive
performance on average after the company
has gone public. Even though IPOs then
tend to underperform the S&P 500
slightly, but they still have a positive
average outcome. But our thesis is not
to bet on the post IPO performance. or
ceases to bet on the private market
performance and hence whenever we can
sell it in the now public company we
would be exiting it as soon as we can
after the lockup then redeploy that
money into the next private company to
harvest both the stronger fundamental
growth of those private companies but
also the secondary market discounts that
we receive when we buy into these
companies and then the IPO premium that
happens when they go public
>> and you don't have to mention any names
specifically unless you want to Andreas
but I know this product is relatively
new Have you had exits and then gone
back in the other way and bought a new
investment on the unicorn side?
>> All of us know that there was a little
bit of a no IPO phase in 2022 2023. We
had one company which was part of the
index but Instacart which went public
out of the index and one company that is
part of the index and the portfolio
currently is Jime which went public but
is still basically within the lockup
period but we foresee a number of other
companies to go public anytime soon and
there's a lot of preparation for some of
those companies. I don't know when this
is going to be released, but we're
sitting here in the latter days of
August and it seems like the IPO
calendar for Q4 is already quite active
and if rates are cut, it seems like all
bets are off in terms of this nuclear
winter. So, it's going to be interesting
to see. So, it seems like you've seen or
at least close to seeing the full
maturation of the early stages of
acquisition through the exit. And as you
go through that process, Andreas, if you
come back and then looking for a new
quote unquote portfolio company as you
exit one, I know we talked about before
having the unicorn status and reasonably
good secondary market liquidity. How do
you make a judgment if there's 10, 15,
20 companies that meet that criteria?
Then coming in, is there some additional
analysis you do to decide who is that
winner that gets into the portfolio? No,
it's really purely systematic and driven
by the index calculation agent which is
Morning Star. So the index basically
whenever a company doesn't meet the
rules of that index anymore like chime
because it's now public and it's not
private anymore and hence after the
lockup is going to be sold it's going to
be replaced by the next largest most
valuable company that could be very
likely for example and those valuations
are known they are part of pitchbook and
hence the logic is take a look at the
valuations of those largest companies
ranked by most valuable to least
valuable check if they are from
developed markets yes or no and then if
they've got a liquidity which is decent
and it's basically on statistical method
by looking at liquidity on certain
platforms and then that would qualify
the company to enter. But then of course
you would actually need to build
relationships to the companies to
shareholders. So you can do this by
purchasing those shares directly from
existing investor and become a direct
shareholders. For example, we are on 13
cap tables of the top 20 companies and
where it's not possible, then you can
invest in cap table SPVS where we would
be a shareholder of an SPV that's
already an investor in the fund by
replacing some other existing investor
or by leveraging for example some praa
rights of those investors when they want
to take part in some primary fundraising
rounds for example. And maybe a thought
for a son or daughter of type of product
as I think about the market cap of some
of these names and we talked a moment
ago about companies staying private for
longer or forever and I also think tied
into the same observations last question
the economist I believe and maybe the FT
did an article on these valuations and
it's almost and I forget you may know
what I'm talking about where the term
unicorn was no longer applicable because
firms like chat GPT might be trillions
and trillions of dollars and still
private as opposed to the billion
dollars really being a major plateau for
a VCbased company. That may be true in
some industries, maybe less so in tech.
So you can take the other side of those
observations, but to formulate that into
a question, you could be sitting here
three to five years from now with 20
names that have multi-unicorn
type of market cap and yet there's still
some very interesting companies reaching
that billion dollar level that would be
very good to have exposure to. So I
wonder if there's a mega unicorn top 20
offering and then maybe the son or
daughter of that might be more to get
exposure to the next generation because
there's no reason for you to exit any of
these other 20. So maybe some of your
thoughts there.
>> These companies despite being public
they become very very large. So 50% of
our holdings would immediately enter the
NASDAQ 100 if they went public.
companies like SpaceX, OpenI, Anthropic,
XAI, Stripe, they're all on the
secondary market above 100 billion in
valuation. So these are very very large
mature companies. You've got like so
many companies that generate hundreds of
millions or even billions of cash flow.
These companies just by their
fundamental success become more valuable
and larger. And then of course you've
got some newer companies maybe like
Perplexity or other companies that have
a rapid rise and may still make it to
the top 10 where they may not have those
fundamentals yet but then they have 200
to 500% revenue growth year over year.
What you're saying is right so you're
buying into a specific segment of
companies that are super successful or
super innovative disruptive cover very
large markets which will then ultimately
lead to very large valuations. And if
the company still doesn't see the need
to go public, there will be trillion
dollar companies soon that are still
private.
>> I'm sure that you have some information
on this offering too, but I did see in
advance of this discussion, Andreas,
that Morning Star has a very nice 12 to
14page explainer paper out on this and
I'll put a link to that when this comes
out and it actually names the 20 names
and talks about the origins of this
index as well and I thought it's a very
interesting piece. So, we don't have
much time left together today. Andreas,
but you're probably pretty well
positioned to look out in terms of what
does public versus private markets look
like 5 years from now. And something you
said earlier was very interesting to me
because I often times say something very
similar. And if you go back to the
Buttonwood agreement which started the
public offering of equity exposure, that
goes back almost 240 years ago. And back
then there was no such thing as public
equity, but they created an exchange, a
specialist network, the ability to
create a secondary market. And now, as
you said a moment ago, the public
markets are all secondary exposure.
We're going to start to see more and
more of that privately, and you and I
agree on that. I think most sensible
people would not be able to take the
other side. Do you see a convergence
where equity exposure is equity
exposure, and you can maybe get some of
it public, some of it private? What does
the future look like in the capital
markets and particularly this private
versus public dilemma that we face
today? In general, I you hear this from
the very large players to players like
us. There's going to be this
convergence. Actually, I think it's the
wrong approach to look at public versus
private. It's actually about the
exposure you're going to buy. So, if
you're buying, let's say, debt exposure,
you should consider private debt and
bonds. And if you look at
infrastructure, it doesn't matter if
it's public or private. I think it's
more about what are you able to tolerate
in terms of the liquidity of your
products. If you can hold that liquidity
or invest over longer periods of time,
then I think you just have much more
opportunities in the private market
space and specific exposure that you
cannot get on the public market side. So
that's going to converge even more. In
in our specific case, I definitely see
the convergence of that preipo space or
private blue chip tech space where
you've got a lot of participants,
ratings, research, trading platforms,
brokers, automations, specialized
players like us asset managers that
participate in that. I could foresee
that there is going to be some private
exchange where you've got different
requirements for these private issuers
or these companies which is not so
burdensome. On the other hand, you also
only have qualified or very professional
participants involved because still
sometimes it's a little bit of a wild
west and it's super fragmented and super
difficult. So it's certainly useful to
have some more standardization and more
rules and ways but I think everyone's
working on that. So in general I would
more look at it like what types of
exposure you want to get and what's the
best way to achieve that exposure
private or public and that's really
subject to restrictions in terms of
liquidity needs etc. you're preaching to
the converted there. I think allocating
to rappers or allocating to private
equity never made any sense to me. And I
think we're seeing here in the states
this siren song of the 6040s dead to me
and now has to be 50 3020. It makes no
sense at least from my vantage point and
I'm not trying to put words in your
mouth and but if I want equity exposure
why shouldn't I just widen the aperture?
and hearkening back to your prior gigs
before Stapleton that if I want equity
exposure, but I don't like the
volatility. I don't like the draw down
risk. I could minimize some of that.
There's a product for that. So, I can
maybe be long public and private equity.
I can maybe use some options and then
have hedge funds tucked in there as
well. And I think it's a wiser way to
approach asset allocation as opposed to
20% to privates. It doesn't make any
sense to me.
>> I think it's the same as if you look at
an index like the S&P 500. you're just
buying into a big group of companies,
but within that index is completely
different. Different types of exposure,
different types of companies. Why would
you invest in the NASDAQ 100 if you can
also invest in the let's say in most
valuable largest 20 companies which
would easily make it into the NASDAQ 100
if you could actually as efficient and
you should you should invest not 10% in
the NASDAQ 100, you should invest seven
and 3% in the top 20 unicorn portfolio
for example. So I think the basic
categories and boxes that you put in
investment they need to be rewritten
definitely and look more at it in terms
of exposure that you can achieve and
utility of your investments. What are
they? In our view our portfolio looks
more like a grosser than a reasonable
price portfolio strong growth reasonable
valuations like a venture portfolio for
example. But yeah it really depends but
I think those boxes and definitions need
to be rewritten over the next five
years.
>> I agree. So, one final question is
having gotten to know you a little bit
when we were together in Zurich and we
recorded some of those videos. You know,
you are a serious professional, but then
I have recently seen that your social
media profile has been pretty active and
I'd like to think that you're playing
into this trying to demystify these
markets, but it seems to be purposeful
that you're out there not so much trying
to ultimately sell product. We all do
that at the end of the day, but I think
you're trying to sell education and do
it in a way that the investor does
understand it. So, I don't know if
that's a purposeful move, but I've seen
you quite active on the content and I
commend you for it. I think it's great.
So, just curious as to how that's going
and what you're trying to accomplish
there.
>> Well, there's many reasons. One is of
course people or investors or people
that buy our products effectively need
to trust us as a company and hence the
people behind the company. Secondly,
there is a lot of things that you need
to learn about where we operate because
it's so new and people may not
understand it. So there's of course
education involved. Third, we don't have
as a younger company don't have the
means to sponsor about every single
event and they do marketing. So I think
it's also very costefficient way and to
be competing on a different level with
those large companies. We got really
good feedback and so we are of course
then leveraging that. But I think the
positive feedback effectively financial
investment products are a very rational
thing. So, I think it's important that
investors have a good feeling about
them, understand what they're looking
for, and somehow also align with what
they're investing. And I think that's
super easy to achieve what we do because
you can actually align with all these
great companies that are shaping our
futures that of our families where you
would otherwise have no exposure to. So,
I think it's an easy place to be writing
about on social media.
>> Well done on that. And I think without
trust, we have nothing. And who doesn't
believe in trust? We all do. And most of
us have it in a mission statement, but
living in and breathing it for the sake
of the end investor who is coming to our
window is critically important. So
congratulations on that and I wish you
and your partners continued success.
It's been a great I think approximately
seven plus years since you launched and
I'll continue to follow the story and
hopefully next time in Missouri can stop
in and maybe record a video or two with
you once again. So Andreas, thanks again
for your time today.
>> Thank you so much, Bill. Always happy to
meet you in Zurich when you're back. So,
thanks for the opportunity and your
thoughtful questions was a pleasure.
Thanks so much.
>> Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association [music]
and subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's cia.org.
See [music] you next time.
