Hey, thank you everyone for sticking
around for this next conversation. And I
think this one is incredibly timely. Fed
rates are on the move. Inflation has
come down but hasn't quite gone away.
Trump geopolitics are in play worldwide.
And then of course there's the
technology cycle which we've been
talking about a lot today, especially
around AI, which is also moving really
fast right now. So we have the perfect
group on stage. In fact, I would go as
far as to say it's like getting the old
band back together from last year as
well to talk about where to allocate in
2026 with a combined $750 billion US
under management on stage in front of
you. So, let's dive straight in. An
Walsh from Guggenheim Partners
overseeing some 350 billion in assets.
His excellency Wed Almahari from Abadler
330 billion in assets under management.
and Tony Manella from Eldridge, 70
billion in assets under management. So
so happy our team is back to talk about
what's happening in the year ahead. Your
excellency, with that in mind, I'd like
to open it up with you. Uh perhaps make
some opening remarks for us and in so
doing, what is Matala's macrobased case
for 2026 and where are you seeing the
most compelling global opportunities
right now?
>> Well, first, thank you. Thank you so
much for having me back on this year.
It's great to see so many familiar faces
in the audience and of course it's an
honor and a privilege to be sitting next
to the panelists I always speak with
[laughter]
which I think is great. I think uh I
think from from our perspective number
one we can't start other than by
welcoming everybody to Abu Dhabi it's
it's the season where we are able to
convene whether it's through milk and
through the races or through Abu Dhabi
finance week forget 750 billion in
assets trillions upon trillions of
assets as Abu Dhabi really kind of turns
into the capital of capital so as we
think about what 2025 looked like you
know I was telling telling some members
of my investment committee I said, I
sure wished that the year ended about 3
weeks ago. Not that not that there's
anything wrong with with with where we
are today, but but but I think that that
brings me to I think my first kind of
point in terms of uh 25 and and very
likely 26. And that is volatility is
very unlikely to go away. And and I
that's not a that's not a very hard
statement to to to disagree with. I
think I think at the end of the day we
are we are entering kind of this this
period over the next 12 24
goodness knows how long it's going to be
set of time where I think two things are
going to distinguish the winners from
from the folks that only do okay. I
think number one is how you manage
volatility through building resilient
portfolios and I'm happy to speak about
that if that's if that's interesting.
And then second, and here's where we're
spending a lot of time is figuring out
where we can discern signal from noise.
Okay, so the more signal to noise and
and the reason why that's important.
Investing has never been
straightforward, right? But but I think
it's it's getting harder because you
have many discontinuities that that I
think most most members of our audience
are very clear about. We're navigating a
huge technological shift
through artificial intelligence, right?
And so a question, you know, is this
going to turn into a huge boost in
productivity? So I happen to think so,
but you know, you've got you've got
folks all over all over the spectrum
from an opinion perspective. You've got,
you know, folks already talking about,
you know, what's what's going to happen
with a potentially overextended private
credit set of portfolios. I happen to
think they're probably going to be fine,
by the way. But again, you have a lot of
folks who are saying, "Hey, look, you
know, things things might get a little
shaky." and private equity still hasn't
resolved its DPI problem. So you're
seeing a lot of different things that
are coming together again that that that
really just point me in one direction
which is how do we stick to our guns of
being thematic investors number one and
in so doing hopefully discern what that
right signal is in the increasingly
noisy environment that we are seeing and
then ultimately give give our
shareholder in this case the government
of Abu Dhabi the uh the return that
they're expecting of us. Mhm.
>> Fascinating and the perfect setup for
the conversation, raising a lot of
interesting points there. And this is
something that you and I also discussed
earlier today, tracking the signal, not
the noise. What's your macro base case
for 2026? And how are you thinking about
where we're at in this rate cycle,
particularly the conversation around the
Fed right now given the normalization
underway and also the uncertainty over
who is ultimately going to be leading uh
that institution in the coming months.
>> Certainly. Again, thank you so much for
having me today and I am in violent
agreement with Wed so many points. Um,
but let me add a few uh about what's uh
going on. Um it's interesting with all
this backdrop, all this really big
picture long trend change that's
happening whether it's technology,
infrastructure,
um globalization or in this case maybe
more deglobalization
uh and uh multipolar world that we are
in.
What seems to have emerged at least as
regards the rate cycle in the US in
particular is a trading range. Weirdly
enough, what we've seen is the 10-year
in the US has really traded between
three and a half and five. And once the
Fed last year started cutting rates, it
really kind of took the top off that
range. So, you're talking about mid-3s
to mid fours. And we're entering the
third fourth year now of we're through
the third year and enter the fourth year
uh of of this trading range. So that at
least within the world of volatility and
you know significant change uh is kind
of an anchoring point. But it's
interesting as we watch the rate cycle
evolve and the Fed um you know
regardless of who gets the that nod
ultimately it's Fed share coming in
we're looking at a relatively dovish
Fed. No matter what they like to say in
the narrative that they're using they're
really pretty dovish. Let's look at
where we are. They've ended quantitative
tightening um and in fact are probably
going to start buying back onto the
balance sheet. That's a stimulative
action and they're certainly going to
continue to cut rates. We happen to
believe that neutral in the US on Fed
funds is 3%. So that means they have
room to cut a few more times and we do
believe that they'll cut here this month
as well. Um and uh and probably at least
two uh times based on the employment
story in the US. Why is all this
happening? Well, actually what we're
seeing is is the sort of in equilibrium
state in the US in terms of growth. So
trend growth in the US over the long
term is about 2% real GDP. Our
prediction for this year and next is
sort of right around 2%. Maybe it's a
little lower, but it's not a recession.
And if that's our base case, then that
seems like it's a pretty easy
opportunity for the Fed to move towards
a neutral stance, not a stimulative
stance, but a neutral stance in response
to what is a emerging as a more of an
equilibrium US economy. And that is in
the backdrop of a fairly equilibrium
global economy. So it's sort of a steady
state at least until about mid 2026 in
our view. albeit I agree with some real
volatility because the headlines are
going to continue and we have to
continue to to navigate in uncertain
waters.
>> Tony weigh in here as well. What's your
macro base case for 2026 and what is the
thing that investors are perhaps not
talking about in this rate cycle?
>> Well, uh first fantastic to be here and
honored to be up on stage with Ann and W
and you Dan. So, thanks for having me
back. Um, you know, I think certainly as
Anne mentioned, rates are going lower. I
think the question is, um, as the Fed
lowers interest rates, what do, you
know, corporations do? Um, historically,
you've looked to hire. Um, it's been a
stimulative for for for employment. Um,
you know, given what Wed's talking about
with artificial intelligence and how
we're using it as an organization, you
know, I don't think you're going to see
a knee-jerk reaction of companies uh to
actually just go in in in mass go out
and and hire. I would rather spend an
incremental dollar of capital available
to, you know, to Eldridge on compute, on
technology. We have one person that's,
you know, just dedicated to focusing on
artificial intelligence and how do we
use it? And the only way to use it is
really to throw yourself into it. And if
you throw yourself into it, then you
can, you know, identify opportunities
where you can save time. Uh you can get
to an answer quicker. Uh Ann and I were
joking, you know, backstage that, you
know, we gone are the days that junior
analysts are going to have to, you know,
uh read through 10Ks and 10 Q's in order
to, you know, analyze a company or even,
you know, probably build spreadsheets in
the very near future. And so you got to
take a step back and you got to you know
really you know analyze and use
information and become a better investor
um you know really by leveraging you
know that technology
>> and just given the backdrop you're
comfortable taking risk in credit and
equities in this environment at least
through the first half of of next year
Tony I
>> I mean what are you going to do right
you can't you can't not I mean I think
you're always we're we're we're looking
to deploy capital uh we have a cost of
funds we got to you know thoughtfully be
able to deploy it. Um, I think right now
the way we got we look at the world at
Eldridge, you've got a risk-free rate of
about a little north of 5%. So, it's
unacceptable to earn anything less than,
you know, call it 5 and a quarter right
now. And you can get that through AAA
CLLLO liabilities which have never never
defaulted. Um, which are about 128 130
basis point spread to sofur. Um, you
know, on the other end of the risk
spectrum, you have, you know, equity
opportunities that we're looking at that
are, you know, into the 20s. Um, it
takes underwriting. Now, what's the risk
to go from, you know, five five and a
quarter% to, you know, 20%, that's
that's our job to be able to, you know,
analyze that and um, you know, be able
to put ourselves in a position that it's
more likely than not that we're able to,
you know, achieve the yield that we're
that we're underwriting to. and
reasonable to expect public equity
market correction particularly at the
top end on this innovation trade in the
coming weeks and months though
>> I I I don't um I I you know I don't I
don't see a a major I mean I think there
certainly there's been stocks that have
that have run up I mean Google's doubled
over the course of you know uh the past
6 months or so um for good reason right
and I think there's going to be winners
and losers in the whole you know race
for for uh for capex X and spend. Um,
we've been big investors in in in some
of the data center, you know, financings
and the GPU financings. Um, I think
unlike previous cycles on uh on on fiber
optic, you know, buildout and and the
internet buildout, uh, you have some of
the biggest market cap companies in the
world that are behind this data spend.
Uh and so I think you can you can you
rest assured that the financing um
absent you know a bet on GPU recoveries
and uh and what the residual values are
there I think I think the the financing
structures that have been put in place
and investment grade financings are are
uh are are good solid ways to earn high
singledigit rates of return
>> and I'll get you to react to that as
well. What's the public equity market
correction risk right now? Well, so I'm
I I'm in agreement. I I like to think of
where we are. The valuations appear
stretched at the macro level. Um and but
I would say it's bubbly, but not a
bubble. Uh it I contrast very
significantly where we are today to
where the dot era uh bubble was. Uh for
the reasons that that Tony has already
cited. Um and but I agree also when
you're looking at these markets, they're
very unequal. There's in the US there's
the mag 7 and then there's the 493 other
members of the S&P 500 and the
performance of these various parts of
the equity market have diverged quite
considerably which tells us that not all
parts of the equity market are actually
contributing to or benefiting from uh
the use of technology and I would say
yet so we have a long way to go and I
also think that when you look at the mag
seven andor the very largest tech
companies They're conglomerates today of
technology. And so, you know, when you
think about back to the dotcom era and
we were looking at those companies, you
know, they weren't they didn't even have
real earnings. Uh, and we saw very very
significant multiples on basically air.
And I don't think that's the story right
now. We actually have fundamentals uh
that work uh for these kinds of
investments at this particular time. But
I'm going to underline something Tony
that you said and that is when you're
underwriting to data centers and I think
there's a lot of concern at the headline
level that we're overinvesting
particularly at a debt level leverage
level within uh data centers the
residual value is really important and
to think about how you get repaid as a
credit investor over that period of of
investable time and that you get return
of principle and you don't leave
yourself a large amount of residual
value against which you're lending. Uh
because I think that is obsolescence
risk is real in this particular
storyline.
>> Um before we move on from um that as
well, I do want to ask about what's
happening in AI, but your excellency
maybe weigh in on this as well. What's
your take on the innovation trade right
now and you mentioned earlier perhaps
some concerns, some fractures in private
credit. What concerns you the most at
the moment? So, so, so starting with a
AI. So,
per personal opinion, I think we're at
the very beginning of another kind of
technology super cycle. Okay, it doesn't
mean that it's always going to be up and
to the right. So, there could be some
volatility. There could be some
pullbacks as we've seen and the winners
of today may not be the winners of
tomorrow. But but I do feel that we're
kind of at an inexurable time at the
moment where a mix of corporations,
governments, and ordinary men and women
are just using something that is making
their lives so productive. Okay, so
forget PE multiples, forget the public
markets for for a moment. Maybe just
just kind of a human type of story that
tells you something. So, for for those
of you that that either live here or
have spent any amount of time here and
you pull out your smartphone, we have an
app here called TEM. Okay, TM is uh is
our government services app. Okay, and I
see that there's some folks in the
audience that have interacted with it.
And what's incredible about this app is
it has more than 1,500 government
services on it already. You can talk to
it in a dozen languages. And I'm not
advocating that this is necessarily the
best thing in the world to do, but you
do not have to interact with another
human, okay, when you want to put an
addition to your house, which which
which obviously used to be a very
painful process, right? Uploading
documents, doing all that stuff, getting
your driver's license, having an
addition to your family, change in
status, paying fines. You're at a point
now where,
you know, all the way from young kids to
senior citizens, you know, 75, 80, 90
year old folks are sitting here talking
on their phone to this government app
and they're saying, well, you know,
what's my pension calculation or how
come I didn't get this payment in or I
want to, you know, build a a little
addition to my house or whatever it
might be. And so when you see that being
pervasive in a society, you know
something's changing, right? and and you
can't help but think even though it may
not be fully clear to you that there are
going to be productivity increases that
are going to come as a result of that
and if that's true then we are we are in
a time of great change and hopefully
growth that will come as a result of it
as mubadla
our AI journey is just beginning but
we've already seen kind of three waves
in that in that journey the first is the
easy stuff the lowhanging fruit that
that I think everybody has been looking
at how do you use AI to help with things
like, you know, hiring people,
recruiting, interviewing, uh, uh, you
know, legal legal document preparation,
kind of the the back office corporate
side of stuff. And that's been great.
The second phase is we developed
something where we actually have an
investment committee member that sits
alongside us that appines on all the
different things that we do. And and you
know, if I was going to characterize it
right now, I would say that it's it's
it's about the same level as kind of an
early stage associate,
which is great. It's only going to get
better as we feed it more data and as we
interact with it and so on and so on and
so forth. And then ultimately, I don't
think we have the tools yet to do this,
but but the ultimate goal for us as a as
an institution is how will it enable us
to be better investors? And remember,
we're generally private market investors
and and that's a harder nut to crack. So
if you are in the public markets,
there's so much data, it's easier to
apply artificial intelligence to it and
then and then, you know, either pick or
look at momentum or trends or whatever
it might be. In in in the private
markets, it's a little more difficult,
but we're working with our partners to
figuring out how we can do something
that will be impactful. And so that's at
an institutional level. And then once
you once you build out and start looking
at well you know how do you how do you
enable AI buildouts around the world as
you know we've created something called
MGX uh in in in partnership with many
like-minded uh uh investors and here
it's about infrastructure and how do we
enable through the provision of energy
and and all the different parts of you
know AI buildouts how do we enable that
capability around the world right here
at home in the United States and in
other parts of the So from my side, when
I think about AI, I'm very optimistic.
Again, it doesn't mean I know what
direction it's going to take. It doesn't
mean we necessarily are able to
translate who the winners and the losers
are. But we do know that, you know, like
the internet, this is this is something
that's really going to revolutionize the
way that we live and therefore it's
going to have a pretty big impact on the
world.
>> MGX also an investor in open AI. Is that
still a good bet?
>> So you're gonna you're gonna have to ask
them. they made they [laughter] made
they made the deployment but I tell you
I use chat GPT all the time if that's
any indicator of anything
>> and and just to pick up again um also to
to follow up on private credit um
anything that concerns you right now
>> look I mean again p private credit like
like many other uh uh asset classes you
know goes goes through a cycle right and
so unclear where we are kind of in the
cycle as it is right now we're not
seeing massive upticks uh from a default
perspective in our portfolio yet. But
again, as a through the cycle investor,
you know, we've had four fantastic years
in in private credit. And so we know
that, you know, that's that's likely to
to perform cyclally. So I don't think
that that it's it's it's going to
implode in any shape, way, or form. I
don't see anything structurally as long
as again you diversify well, you build
the right type of resilient portfolio.
It's it's again it's about construction
right now and managing risk as opposed
to saying well this asset class is
either going to perform well or not
perform well.
>> Okay. Um just let's let's go back to AI
just for a second as well. Speaking of
managing risk so I mentioned uh on stage
earlier with his excellency the the AI
minister about how Ray Dallio is now
talking about how parts of this are
looking very much like a bubble. He said
that calling it a bubble now looks like
calling the internet a bubble in 1995
which I thought was really interesting.
But what would you say are the areas
that look most challenged right now as
we move into the deeper part of this
cycle and are you concerned about the
sustainability of the financing behind
some of these large scale AI buildouts?
Um your excellency, I'll start with you
because of course the UAE is building
Stargate uh here of course backed with
US technology partners as well following
the uh US Nvidia chip approval. I think
this is this is a this is a big deal
right this is 5 gawatt right here in the
UAE. Can you finance it? If so, how? And
what's most worrying about the uh level
of spend that we're seeing right now in
this space?
>> Look, it's it's undeniable that there's
going to be winners and losers, right?
There's there's no question about it. So
how do you how do you ensure that you
are in the former category and not and
not uh in the latter for us it's about
partnership and it's about managing
risk. Okay. And so again as long as as
long as you are very deliberate about
who you work with and again manage risk
and and not everybody is able to take
the same type of risk, right? So, so
ultimately what works in an equation
like this is once you are crystal clear
about your risk appetite, you structure
around it and you take the the type of
risk that you need. I would I would
venture to say that uh you know we are
very bullish on artificial intelligence.
We think that we have picked kind of the
right segment within that and with the
partners that we have and our approach,
our thoughtful sort of methodical
approach to investing in that space, I
think we're going to do just fine.
>> What does this Nvidia chip still unlock
for Madlera?
>> For Mubadra,
nothing. So, so Mubadra is not a party
to to that. Uh I I think what's great
for the country is is having cutting
edge compute is great for the country
given listen to what I just said earlier
about all the different applications
that we are using from an AI perspective
in this country. So having that kind of
compute is only going to be better and
better.
>> Okay, let's expand the conversation a
little further here. Tony, over to you
on this as well because you have a
really interesting vantage point.
Eldridge touching everything from um
private credit to media to sports to
tech. when you think about AI, what is
it going to mean for the entertainment
space and the investability of that
sector?
>> Yeah, I I I think uh so we own a uh A24
which is um the leading independent film
and TV distribution and uh production
company in the in the world. Um they're
heavily investing in in artificial
intelligence and technology. They've
hired a gentleman um Scott Bellski who
was chief product officer from Adobe. uh
he's come in and is really embracing um
all new technologies and they like us
are you know experimenting uh they're
trying to bring tools to filmmakers uh
and to creators and to actors and
actresses that make movies you know
faster better cheaper um in a in a more
efficient way you know and I think it's
going to be you know revolutionary and
there's there's films that you know that
they they were looking at um call it 36
months ago that might have cost 300
$und00 million to be able to you know
produce produce that they think they
they might be able to leveraging those
technologies produce at 10 cents on the
dollar relative to what it would have
cost you know 36 months ago.
>> And do you want to pick up on anything
you've heard in the last few minutes
before we switch topics?
I
>> I would just say from a data center
financing perspective, I mean there's
there's on balance sheet financing um
and then there's offbalance sheet
financing. I think um you know there was
a uh a blue al blue alowl did a deal for
for meta uh and a big you know data
center financing that had uh a fully
amvertising
um 8 and 8 point you know sorry 6 point
uh 85% coupon on it over over 15 years
uh with a a full triple net lease from
meta um you know that was 165 basis
points wide of where meta you know debt
was trading at the time you you know,
it's the first time I've ever seen an
investment grade bond break, you know,
up 10 points, you know, so it's uh it's
certainly it's it's met financing, but
it's met financing plus that's coming at
a at a spread, you know, premium to
where their corporates are. And so the
the the the financing for the data
center and the AI build is there. Is
there going to be, you know, capex is
misappropriated? Is are there going to
be mistakes that are made? of course,
you know, but is society and and and are
we are going to be able to make a lot of
progress over the course of the next,
you know, 5 years? Um and then just from
a credit perspective, every single
investment that we're looking at right
now, um you know, we're we're we're
asking ourselves the questions at the
maturity of that loan, you know, whether
it's 5 years, 7 years, 8 years, you
know, the the the world's going to look
a lot different and, you know,
technology is going to have rippling
effects, you know, through every single
industry. And there's big companies that
are, you know, going to cease to exist.
And there SAS software companies that,
you know, are in a trade-off of
multiples of annualized recurring
revenue, you know, that are going to be
significantly disrupted by, you know, AI
agents. And so, we're all going to get a
lot more efficient in our jobs. And, you
know, you just got to make sure that
you're leveraging technology. And
historically, I would do that by buying
a new iPod at the time, which was a
revolutionary product. And when you went
from an MP3 player that had, you know,
13 songs on it to, you know, a thousand
songs, that was mind-blowing. I should
have just bought the Apple stock at that
point in time. You know, I bought a
Tesla early on. I should have bought the
Tesla stock at, you know, at that point
in time, too. And so, you know,
sometimes you just got to, you know,
look at products, look at companies,
look at their vision, you know, and
throw analysis necessarily out the
window and really know that the vision
and the product roadmap for that company
is compelling and it's going to make an
impact in the world.
>> And did you want to weigh in as well?
>> Sure. And I I think I'm going to use the
term of art again, a super cycle. uh and
uh and and I think that where we are in
the super cycle uh is we're really early
stages. I am also an optimist about the
about where technology is going to take
us but it will not get there in an even
path directly up and to the right uh
either and one area that we don't tend
to think about is what prevents us from
making use of the technology um and why
it is that 493 other companies in the
S&P 500 haven't yet really developed
their use cases in the same way uh to
take advantage of it and uh and I can't
wait for our government in the US to get
the app that well he's talking about
because oh my gosh anybody who has to
deal with a DMV in the US knows that it
is very um uh it it is it is it is stuck
in an old world uh as it's so many of
the uh governmental functions uh but the
opportunity set for broad-based use is
definitely there and and I I tend to
concur we have to rethink valuation uh
in that environment environment uh
relative to the way we used to think
evaluations
uh as purely a PE model and we have to
rethink what is what is the
transformation that's happening and it's
across all sorts of sectors if we think
about what happened in uh in the early
80s for 30 years was a sort of a desktop
um uh revolution if you will and it it
touched but didn't impact as much all
sorts of other industries like
agriculture and medicine in the same
way. Artificial intelligence is going to
be transformative even in those
industries and maybe even more so. So,
this is a broad-based technology super
cycle that we're going to see and and um
I think that as I as I said, I'm very
much an optimist for the future.
>> Let's talk about what's happening
outside of the United States and uh
elsewhere around the world because
everyone says the world is becoming more
multi-olar. US exceptionalism I think uh
clearly evident on on this stage still
very much in play but of course we're
also watching what's happening in China
India's rise the surge that we're seeing
in the Gulf everyone says it's a
multipolar world but when you look at
these actual portfolios most of the
money is still invested in the United
States so the question is are investors
walking the walk when it comes to this
question of being multipolar or is
multipolarity really just a buzzword
here so to boil it down Where's the best
bet outside of the United States right
now? Willie, did you want to start?
>> Sure. So, so no, I think I I think it's
about how you look at risk. At the end
of the day, for us, we see growth in so
many different places. So, yes, back to
your first point, the the US is 42% of
Moubad's portfolio. Okay, fine. Great
riskreward. It's we think it's still
going to keep going. And the truth of
the matter is it's probably not going to
change very much materially over the
next uh next few years. But that being
said, you look at look at Asia, okay?
Look at what's happening in China. So
China has has had some difficulty uh
over the last few years, but you're
starting to see green shoots there. And
so, you know, China is our second
largest trading partner. How do we not
participate in their in their growth
from an investment perspective? And so
we've been we've been consistently
investing in China over the last 11 or
12 years and we are looking at really
interesting opportunities there that cut
across both asset class and segment.
Okay. Same thing with India, Korea,
Japan. And so you're you're all seeing
kind of interesting opportunities. Each
market's a little bit different but but
there's no question that that's very
interesting from where we sit. And then
moving moving to
non US Americas, I'll highlight Brazil.
We've been Brazil for for almost 15
years now. And and we've been able to
create a franchise there where again,
you know, you're able to source
opportunities that are so interesting
where you are able to uh to make an
above market return given the risk that
you're taking. And so I would say there
is no shortage of opportunity.
It just happens to be that sometimes you
have to work a little harder to go find
it uh when you're not talking about the
United States. Even though that's also
happening in the United States as we
speak too, but it's it's I it doesn't
mean that from a diversification
perspective and from a growth
perspective that you shouldn't be in
these markets. Now, we're not perfectly
diversified. Okay? And so, if I had to
predict, I would say Asia's going to
grow.
Uh but I think but I think the point is
is that again for us it's just really
important to participate in growth where
we see it as long as the riskreward
makes sense
>> and right now that's the US
>> and right now it's the US but it's Asia
too. You can't you can't ignore Asia.
Asia is is growing especially different
parts of it.
>> And weigh in on this as well. Where
would you say the best bet is outside of
the United States right now? And when
you uh zoom out and think about not the
next quarter but the next decade, what
are some of the key themes that you'll
be tapping into?
>> Well, so it's interesting. Last year in
Davos, the theme of the year was
American exceptionalism. By liberation
day, that was over and everybody was
running to Europe. Um but Europe still
has uh structural issues from a
regulatory perspective. And so, so
flexibility is going to be important.
diversification is you really remains
important uh and and uh we find value
particularly in in Asia in equities. uh
I think uh Japan's continuing to to
demonstrate that where do we go over the
next decade taking the really long view
is going to be parts of the world which
are going to be able to harness the
super cycle themes um and that's going
to be those that can master and harness
artificial intelligence have power and
availability um communications education
uh demographics uh those are parts of
the of the large macro backdrop that are
relevant as well. And if we look at
developed economies who don't have a
definitely a demographic headwind
relative to emerging uh countries and
their economies, that's that's also
going to have a very significant impact.
Education is also uh a key element. So
when you're looking at these macro
backdrop elements, key in on those that
will be able to take advantage of and
master uh the opportunity set that is
that is coming.
Tony, your view?
>> You know, I mean, I think I think
broadly, um, the US and our and our, uh,
leadership in technology and innovation
is going to drive returns globally over
the course of the next 10 years. I think
as you look, you know, outside of the
United States, the thing that comes to
my mind and the first country that comes
to my mind is Japan, you know, and I
think it's really, you know, structural
reforms within that society that are
going to be able to, you know, continue
to drive equity performance there.
You've had 401k type equivalents. You've
had an entire population that's missed
out on equity performance and, you know,
after the after the crash in the 1980s.
Um, you know, you've got their indices
now at at record highs. Um, and you've
got a a backdrop there where, you know,
the government is incurring is
encouraging structural reforms amongst
the conglomerates to be able to unlock,
you know, shareholder value. That that
that sets up for a dynamic and a um, you
know, that I think I think, you know,
um, they're going to continue to take
advantage of and that's going to drive,
you know, outperformance into Japan. you
know, structural reforms in Argentina, I
think, have, you know, been able to
propel, you know, progress there. And
so, it's it's um, you know, it's it I I
think it's it's idiosyncratic to the to
the to the country and how the country
is going to, you know, embrace, you
know, change and position itself to, you
know, for growth.
>> Okay. So, let's bring it all together
with a final question uh for my panel,
and this one's for everyone in the room.
What would you say is one thing that
investors aren't paying enough attention
to right now that they probably should
be? And can each of you name one risk
that you think could possibly blindside
investors in the next 12 months? Tony,
I'm going to start with you.
>> So, this is an interesting question. Um,
[laughter]
I I I talk a lot about gray swans, not
black swans.
um because uh because I think in terms
of there's lots of risk and tail risk
continues to increase um again we don't
happen to currently have that kind of a
negative view i.e recession in the US
andor around the globe in the same way.
But that is something that we have to be
thoughtful about is is um that two words
that I tend to use um uh that that lend
themselves to systemic risk that is too
much leverage and not enough liquidity.
And right now globally we seem to have a
pretty good situation with regard to
liquidity availability and not too much
leverage. notwithstanding the the
narrative around data centers and the an
increasing amount of leverage but still
way far away from it uh from the from
the level of of systemic but you often
don't know where those come together and
converge and we've seen that um in in
crises in the past um and uh and right
now those might happen in small places
uh you know on the fringes but not
necessarily one that creates the sort of
global economic IC meltdown like we saw
in the financial crisis. Um so so those
are the tend you know at the micro level
what I look for as signs. So canaries
and coal mines if you will
>> Tony
um it's a hard question and if I knew
the answer I would be up here.
Um I you know I I I think I think uh you
know we're in a position um you know
right now that you change is inevitable
right and it's about you know how do you
adopt and and and and really you know
adapt to change um you know is our
government you know going to be in a
position to continue to you know foster
an environment for um you know
innovation is that going go, you know,
overseas. Um, in terms of, you know, one
one risk that we might be, you know,
overlooked right now, I think, you know,
certainly there's there's big companies
that, you know, you see, you know, wild
swings in Nvidia's stock price after,
you know, Google comes out with their,
you know, TPU based based chip and makes
people rethink the value proposition of
a of an Nvidia. and what's you know and
they lost you know what 7800 you know
billion dollars of market cap when
you're a four and a half billion dollar
trillion dollar market cap company you
know I guess you can afford that and
you've had the run that they've had you
know but um you know I I I think
technology changes you know really
quickly and um you know if I was to to
to to bet on companies I would you know
certainly bet on Elon Musk's uh
ecosystem
um you know over a chat GPT Um, so I
would bet on Microsoft, I'd bet on
Apple, I'd bet on Google. You know,
they're so embedded inside of the
ecosystem and have so much, you know,
technology advantage right now and are,
you know, really, you know, um, doing a
great job of integrating AI into their
existing ecosystem.
>> Okay. Very interesting. Your excellency,
I'm going to give you the final say.
question was one thing investors aren't
paying enough attention to right now and
one risk you think that could blindside
investors in the next 12 months. So
>> So I'm going to start with with the
positive which is something really
interesting that I just read and have
been tracking a little bit. And so if
you look at one of the areas that we
invest in is uh is obviously [snorts]
healthcare, drug discovery,
pharmaceuticals, that type of thing. and
and we started seeing that that large
western pharmaceuticals
are starting to buy up early stage drugs
from a really interesting place and
you're seeing increased activity of them
doing that from China that never used to
happen before and so that's very
interesting first because it's never
happened before and second it means that
the quality of the science that's
happening in China is really growing in
leaps and bounds And so prediction,
you're going to see over the next 2 or 3
years increased pharmaceutical M&A
coming out of China where Western
companies are buying compounds and drugs
from uh and and these are cutting edge
things that are coming out of China. So
not to be ignored. I think that's number
one. And then a risk that I worry about,
not a short-term risk, but certainly a
medium-term risk is you worry about and
I think what's interesting is that
everybody mentioned it without using
these words. So when you say something
like I worry about the risk of kind of
technology adoption going at different
speeds at the end of the day at the
heart of that you're really talking
about income inequality and you're
talking about kind of the the increase
in the halves and the have nots and so
even though that's not an immediate
thing that that
you know I'm super worried about I do I
do worry about it over the medium term
because you are seeing that different
economies and different governments are
moving at different speeds and if we
don't keep an eye on that, you're going
to get maybe a gray swan or a black swan
that has the potential to to really
upend a lot of different things.
>> I really enjoyed our conversation. Um, I
hope you did as well. Thank you so much
for sticking around to listen in. And
ladies and gentlemen, please thank this
exceptional panel. Thank you again.
[applause]
Thank you.
