Lots of people use the word strategist
in their job title. Uh you got
strategists who label by asset class
like an equity strategist or a fixed
income strategist, a currency
strategist. You'll have geographic focus
like an apex strategist or an emerging
market strategist. You have other
focuses like macro strategist, portfolio
strategist, quantitative strategists and
then some more generic titles simply
investment strategist or market
strategist. So there are lots of
different flavors and joining me today
are three esteemed guests who are
currently investment strategists. They
have volunteered to join in their
personal capacity. Uh let's dip into the
questions from the audience. Uh first
one's for you David. So, you're a
strategist on the buy side and you've
been on the buy side most of your
career. Um, how does the buy side
strategist role differ from being a
strategist on the sell side? I found
there was a rather interesting
difference. When I was on the sell side,
you had to say something different. You
please give me a non-consensus view. The
problem is, as we economists know,
consensus is rather smart about these
things. And particularly in economic
numbers, if you if you decide you're
going to go two standard deviations away
from consensus, guess what? you're very
likely wrong. But what what I discovered
on the cell side is no matter how absurd
their view was, so long as you could uh
you could spout some some piece of
nonsense and and with with with
conviction that was very different from
consensus, you would get a hearing. Now,
on the buy side, it is a little bit
different because in the end, a lot of
times you're advising the people who are
advising individual investors, they
don't need to beat the markets. They
need to avoid making stupid mistakes and
getting too excited or too scared. They
need to basically invest broadly. And
very often they don't even appreciate
what consensus among strategists and
economists is. So if you can you don't
have to worry so much about coming up
with a non-conensive view. Uh you know
like Fras I'm I'm uh I'm always there's
always a little bit thrill of excitement
when you discover that the world has got
it wrong and there is something going on
that that people haven't quite figured
out yet. I I love doing that and talking
about that, but I don't mind very often
giving views which are quite straight
down the middle. So long as I'm
expressing something clearly to people
that people don't normally get because a
lot of people, you know, don't really
understand what a reasonable economist
or strategist would think about the
state of the world or the state of
valuations or an appropriate portfolio.
So the to me in the buy side it's much
more about explaining it clearly to the
average investor or the average adviser
so they can explain it to the average
investor rather than coming up with a
non-conensus view. Thinking about the
industry a little bit uh so we're all
quite aware of the shift from active to
passive that's taken place over many
many years now. How's that changing the
investment strategy or I think you
mentioned you look at ETFs a bit
earlier. Maybe that's got something to
do with it. So how do you think that
shift has altered the role of being an
investment strategist? So we can use the
ETF industry as a proxy for instance for
markets which has allowed us to do so
much more uh in terms of quantification
of trends. I think that there's also a
lot more to discover and write about
with respect to what's driving stocks at
any given point in time. What's driving
markets at any given point in time can
be related to what investors are
investing in. the product itself uh can
create
concentrations um which are worth uh
exploring in strategies. Um mostly I
think though that it's just opened up
the world of opportunity to investment
to a greater share of investors. Um it's
created an investability for many many
asset classes that were not investable
for the retail investor um years ago
which has allowed for proliferation of
financial products allowed for creation
of wealth for a greater degree of
investors. I mean one of the things I
like most about being at Bloomberg is
I'm not segmented to talking to any
specific investor type. So in any given
day we might talk to an asset owner uh
who owns a certain product set and also
a trader a retail trader trading their
own their own book who is interested in
the movements in in various uh asset
prices or individual securities. Um, but
you know, I'd say broadly the thing
that's changed the most is just the
proliferation of product has allowed for
more and and we do this ourselves
because one of the things that we do
inside of our our team is create
thematic universes that ultimately feed
indexes that ultimately become licensed
ETFs um uh in our in our provider base.
So there's uh you know those ETF
products are very active by nature. um
they're not necessarily passive. I think
that the universe is constantly
changing. What we're spending most of
our time doing in our ETF work now is
not covering ETFs as a passive entity,
but covering the active strategies that
are evolving inside that asset
structure. And I think it'll constantly
evolve. So goes back to the original
thing that I said is one of the things I
like most is the constant evolution, the
constant challenge and this active
passive uh ETF versus fund rapper sort
of uh progression throughout time is is
one of those challenges that we follow
in debt. Is this the best of times or
the worst of times to be an investment
strategist? That's not an easy one to
answer. Um selfishly I want to say that
it's the best of times. I really like uh
Gina's analogy, you know, puzzle analogy
and um you know, you have a greater need
for investment strategy when you have a
complicated puzzle. And we have an
administration, a new administration
that's using very
unconventional policy tools. And so
that's that's a puzzle to figure out. We
have an economy that is very different
than it's been in the past. And by
different, what I mean is more sensitive
to inflation. And we have, you know, a
stock market, an in S&P 500, it's also
very different than it's been
historically. It's very growthy. And
that means it will respond differently
to um, you know, certain macro
developments. So, you know, from my
perspective, this is one of the most
interesting backdrops I have seen. Um,
and I feel like the more complicated the
puzzle is, the more of a need there is
for investment strategy or people to
figure it out, if you will. Uh, so I
think it's the best of times.
Absolutely. How's kind of coming that
academic economist route helped you land
and succeed in your current role? To
some extent, luck. I mean, it just you
you just managed to interview eventually
for the right jobs in the right places.
So I think uh two crucial job you know I
think first of all if you if you have
good academic credentials I mean never
you know never doubt the value of good
good credentials. So you got to do well
in your in your education. U but you
know eventually I I managed to get a job
at Putnham Investment. So they're
looking for a strategist who could make
speeches at the very time that that was
what I really need to do. And similarly
at uh um JP Morgan Asset Management they
were looking for a strategist that was
just the just what what I had to offer.
Um, so I I think, you know, in in
anybody's job search, it's it's always
going to be tricky, but I think again
it's it's kind of gets back to that
communication skill thing a little bit
because you're you're you're in the
interview process, you're one of a
gazillion resumes out there, but what is
it even when you're oneonone across from
somebody at a desk? What is it that gets
you to the next round of interviews? and
your ability to make some some
impression, some emotional impression
upon that person the other side of the
desk say, you know, that's a really
interesting person there. Maybe we
should listen to them again. That
actually is probably what allows you
float to the top of the the pile and
actually get the job. So, it's it's a
bit of luck. The jobs have to be open.
You have to have connections. Always be
always ask people, knock on doors, ask
people for help, you know, don't don't
ever be shy. The things I've regretted
are always the the phone calls I didn't
make or the conversations I didn't have,
not the ones that I did. Um so you have
to knock a lot of doors but also make
sure that you know uh in the
communications process you're able to um
you know get across some ideas that that
make people think and have an emotional
connection on them. How important would
you say are the quantitative analytic
skills for junior strategists these days
and what kind of what would you look for
in terms of evidence of that uh for
someone looking to join the industry?
Absolutely critical is the best answer
that I can uh give you in terms of
joining our team. We put analysts
through an actual testing process. So we
test their ability to analyze financial
statements but also aggregate data. It's
sort of very classic traditional
understanding of index construction as
well as uh financial metrics for
companies and then we also put them
through a python test. Um so it's just
it's just a part of life. uh you know as
we go through we especially because our
our approach is very data and model
ccentric as I mentioned you know we're
not sort of pontificating about where
things are going we're proving why
certain indicators matter we're proving
why um you know some indicator may move
certain segments of the equity market
over time or trying to analyze what an
indicator means for um you segments of
sector sector rotation or or market
performance. So we in our team
absolutely consider it crucial. Um there
are analysts certainly that I've hired
in more senior level positions that
don't necessarily have a data framework.
They're more policy related analysts who
might have an a law background for
example. We have those analysts on our
team. Um but from a junior perspective
in supporting the data endeavor that we
have every analyst goes through the same
testing process. That's pretty simple
answer for me. What do you think are the
top three skills, traits or attributes
that are pivotal to attaining those very
highly prized institutional investor
awards as a strategist? I think it's
three things. I think um you have to be
good at research obviously um ideally
passionate about it. Number two, you
have to uh you have to be able to write
concisely. Um and number three uh public
speaking. And so to me, those are the
three things. I don't think you need to
be a master of all three. I would say
I'm pretty good at all three, but I can
point to people that are better than me
at research, at writing, definitely at
public speaking. Um, but you have to
have a certain level in all three or
consistency, uh, if you will. Uh if
there's one that's more important than
the others, I think it is probably
research because that's the basis
ultimately. If you can't do research
properly and have something interesting
to talk about, well, there's nothing to
really communicate other than just
rehashing the news and that just won't
cut it as uh an investment strategist.
Uh so you know and if you're if you're
good at one of them well then you know
to invest your time you know if you're
really you happen to be really good at
research um you can take a writing class
you can take a public speaking class um
you know to bring you to the level you
need to be uh so to me those are the
three things and again I think from a
buy side perspective you know maybe that
would be a little different on the sell
side we obviously write a lot and so
that part becomes important um but it's
research writing and public speaking. If
you saw a young person today aspiring to
be an investment strategist and was
looking to impress a large asset manager
with their AI skills, what sort of
things in 2025 will impress you on a
resume when it comes to being on the
cutting edge of AI at the junior levels?
It's not so much technical skills. I we
can obviously try and measure those and
I think we've got a lot lots of ways of
filtering them but um you know I like to
see people with sort of an engineering
background people who've shown some you
know engineering math or something so we
know that they've got some quantitative
aptitude but the thing that I think is
often missing here is an ability to
write and I think you know I don't look
at research and writing and quantitative
skill skills or and and speaking skills
as different things. I think that your
ability to to research something and
then to write about it, when you write
about it, you realize, wait, that's
what's wrong with the model. I needed to
put that in the model or or this this is
why this thing, you know, why the why
why we've got an outlier here. Um, and
then equally, I find when I'm making
speeches in the middle of it, I wish
somebody would actually sort of write
down the phrase that had just dawned on
me as I was talking because that's when
your mind makes that connection. Aha, it
is just kind of like that, but this is
the problem with my argument. I wonder
did anybody notice that? And so I think
that as a as a researcher I think what
impresses me to be honest is somebody
who can write really well and who loves
reading. You know if you want to be a
good writer read if if you want to be
good a good you know uh speaker listen
but I think uh I think that a lot of
people are so quantitative I I I I don't
want to say I take quantitative skills
for granted but a lot of the candidates
I see I think do actually have those
qualitative skills you know in in very
heavy doses. What I want to see is also
an ability, a love of reading and a love
of actual writing with a pen. I know
that's a very weird thing, but it's uh I
think these are old human skills that we
we're sort of discarding in this world
of AI and and texting, which may
actually be dumbing down the population.
I I'd rather have somebody with 19th
century skills and 21st century skills
in many ways. So, what couple of things
have changed the most about investment
strategy since the 1990s? And what
couple of things would you say have
changed the least about the profession?
You have to remember the 1990s is the
ramp up to the tech bubble? And so um
you know in those days macro in the eyes
of many was kind of a dirty word. You
know I would often uh meet investors
that would say we buy companies you know
and uh people that didn't care about
macro. And I think that changed um
sometime around the GFC you know the
markets became dominated by macro events
and um you know nowadays obviously it's
uh it you know it's viewed very very
differently. Um you know but in the 90s
it was still you know the world of
picking stocks and macro was viewed as
secondary. Um what's changed the least
or what's similar? uh well it's still
human beings making investment decisions
and as David mentioned uh human beings
have a lot of biases obviously right now
the political bias I think is huge uh so
that's the commonality I think not just
between today and 30 years ago but 100
years ago you know the one common bond
that you'll find in every mania or asset
bubble it's humans that were trading
stocks um and so to me that's what
hasn't change. It is still 100% the
same.
