Hi, and welcome back to the Grafana Alloy
for Beginners series. I'm Lisa Jung,
a Staff Developer Advocate at Grafana. In the
last few episodes, we built pipelines to collect
infrastructure logs and metrics. As we add more
pipelines, our configuration grow more complex and
debugging gets trickier. That's where the Alloy UI
comes in. It helps us visualize what's happening
in our pipelines so we can quickly spot issues
and debug more efficiently. In this episode,
we'll use the Alloy UI to explore and understand
the pipelines we built so far. Before getting
started, make sure your learning environment
is up and running. Go to your browser and open
the Alloy UI at localhost://12347. We'll see a
list of all the components that we've defined
in our config.alloy, along with its health
status. When we click on the View button.
it'll take us to the Component Detail page.
This page shows the health of the component,
the arguments it's using, as well as its exports.
Now, when you scroll up, you'll see that this
component is called prometheus.relabel.postgres,
which is the component we defined in the previous
episode. So let's take a look at its arguments.
Now, you'll see the three rule blocks that we
defined in the last episode for the labels: group,
service, and instance. And when you scroll up,
you can also access the component's documentation
by clicking on this button here, as well as a Live
Debugging view. Now, when you click on that,
we see a real-time stream of telemetry flowing
through a component. From here, we can pause and
clear the data stream, sample data, and disable
auto scrolling to handle heavy loads, search
through the data using keywords, and copy the
entire data stream to the clipboard. It's a great
way to inspect what's happening under the hood.
Next up is the Graph page, which is a really
helpful tool. Click on Graph at the top to open
it. This page gives us a visual map of all of our
components and how they're connected. Right now,
we see the three pipelines we built
so far for collecting, processing,
and exporting infrastructure logs and metrics.
So let's zoom in on the logs pipeline. The dotted
lines between components are color coded by data
type, and we can match them using the legend at
the top. The number on each line shows a data
transfer rate. That rate is calculated based on
the window setting above. For example, a window
of 10 means Alloy calculates a per second rate
over the last 10 seconds. Now you can even
drag components around to rearrange them,
so it's super easy to organize and understand
your pipeline. Next, we have the Clustering page.
We can access this page by clicking on the option
up top. A cluster node is an instance of Alloy
that participates in workload distribution and
ensures high availability. This page shows the
status and role of each node, so we can easily
see which nodes are active, their addresses,
and its current state. To debug using the Alloy
UI, make sure all components are showing as
healthy. Check that the arguments and exports
for any misbehaving components are correctly
configured. Use Live Debugging to confirm that
the data flow through each component matches your
expectations. In this episode, we used the Alloy
UI to explore and better understand the state of
the pipelines rebuilt so far. Up next, Mischa
will show you how to take things further by
building pipelines for application metrics,
traces, and logs using Alloy. Stay tuned.
