Hello and welcome to today's investment
foundation certificate live learning
webinar. This session is on the power of
alternative investments. This session
will provide a comprehensive
understanding of diverse asset classes
and their potential to enhance your port
investment portfolio. I'm delighted to
introduce Sonia. She's our instructor
for today. Sonia is a CFA charter
holder. She is a senior director for
education at CFA Institute and she's a
content lead for our sustainable
investing certificates.
>> Thank you Katherine and welcome
everyone.
Today we are going to dive into the
wonderful and exciting world of
alternative investments. So this is what
we'll cover today. We'll cover
advantages and limitations of
alternative investments. And then we
will dive into three uh alternate
investment asset classes which is
private equity, real estate and
commodity investments. Alternative
investment are investments that fall
outside the traditional asset classes of
debt securities and equity securities.
private equity, which are investments in
private companies, companies that are
not listed on a stock exchange.
Real estate investments, it could be
direct or indirect investments in land
and building. And the third asset class
that we'll talk about today is commodity
investments. This could be investments
in physical products such as precious
metals, base metals like gold, copper,
in energy products, think oil,
agricultural products that are typically
consumed. Examples could be corn,
cattle, wheat or used in the
manufacturer of goods, for example,
lumber, cotton, sugar. Let's talk about
advantages of alternative investments.
So there are two points to emphasize
here. First is they can potentially
enhance portfolio returns. So if you
look at on your screen's historic
historical returns from 1990 to 2020,
you can see the returns of US private
equity over the last 5 10 20 25 years
compared to NASDAQ S&P and S&P 500. We
can see superior returns. So one is they
can potentially enhance portfolio
returns
and the second point is that they can
also lower portfolio risk by providing
diversification benefits.
So if two assets or securities do not
have a correlation of plus one, if they
are not perfectly positively correlated,
then combining the two assets or
securities in a portfolio may provide
diversification benefits and thus reduce
risk in the portfolio.
As you can see that there is relatively
low correlation between different types
of alternative investments
and also between alternative investments
and other asset classes like stocks,
bonds.
Adding private equity, real estate and
commodities to portfolios helps investor
reduce risk. So two key points to
remember from this slide. the these
investments can potentially enhance
returns and they can lower risk by
providing diversification
benefits. So I can tell you now that
compared with traditional investments,
alternative investments are less
regulated,
they are less transparent,
they are less liquid, not more liquid
like some of you felt and they are more
difficult to value
because they are less regulated and less
transparent than traditional
investments.
Individual investors are less likely to
invest in them. However, institutional
investors may view this as an
opportunity to take advantage of market
inefficiencies.
Most alternative investments are
illquid, they are difficult to sell
quickly without accept accepting a
significantly discounted price. And
finally, because purchase and sales of
startup companies, land and buildings
are infrequent, valuation is challenging
is and is often based on an appraisal.
What is an appraisal? It is an
assessment or estimation of the value of
an asset and is subject to certain
assumptions which may not always be
realistic. Let's move forward with the
first asset class that we'll discuss
today which is private equity. Private
equity firms invest in private companies
that are not publicly traded on a stock
exchange.
Although people commonly refer to
private equity, private investments can
include both equity and debt. Private
debt can include direct lending which is
private loans made without
intermediaries. It can be mezzanine
debt. It could be venture debt which is
private loans to startup or early stage
companies. And it could be distress debt
lending which is debt extended to
companies that are at risk of
defaulting. Private equity strategy. So
we will talk about four strategies or
four phases of a company's uh life
cycle. Venture capital.
Think of an entrepreneur who wants to
set up her own business.
She doesn't have the required capital.
So she turns to her friends and
neighbors for the money she needs.
She starts her company. Now it's 5 years
have gone. Her company is mildly
successful
and she requires more capital to grow
further.
So to raise the additional capital the
company requires to support its growth
plans. It could do it could issue shares
to the public via an initial public
offering. But companies normally at that
stage are not ready for an IPO. They can
take a long time to get ready for an
IPO. So we have established that the
company is not yet ready to go public
but needs more money to grow than the
entrepreneur or friends, neighbors and
maybe banks were able or willing to
provide.
So who would have financed such a young
and not well established company? The
answer is venture capital. The
entrepreneur can sell some of her
company's shares to a venture capital
firm which is a type of private equity
firm to get the additional capital
necessary to grow her business. It is
considered to be the riskiest type of
private equity investment because it's
at the at a very early stage of a
company's uh life cycle. Venture
capitalists specialize in financing new
and young companies. They not only
provide the money, the seed capital,
they provide entrepreneurs and young
companies with both the capital and the
expertise to launch and grow their
businesses and to develop track records
of successful companies. Let's look at
growth equity. Now,
growth equity investors provide
additional money at a later stage of a
company's development. The company has
sort of a proven business model. It's
got a good customer base. It's got pos
positive cash flows or profits
by providing additional money in return
for equity in the company. Growth equity
investors help these companies expand
and become more established.
Something to consider and keep in mind
here this additional equity that comes
it d obviously any additional equity
that comes it dilutes existing
shareholders ownership
because logically more investors are
sharing the company's cash flow.
So but the later stage growth equity
investors typically have expertise in
organizing a getting a company ready for
its initial public offering. So they may
bring financial benefits that outweigh
the disadvantages of dilution. What's a
buyout?
It's the acquisition of a controlling
interest in a company.
The acquirer has the decision-making
authority over the target company.
Buyout investors often target companies
that have recently underperformed but
that offer opportunities through
restructuring to grow to grow revenues
and margins.
You must have heard LBOS's a leveraged
buyout. What is a leveraged buyout? A
leverage buyout occurs when a greater
portion of the purchase is funded with
borrowed money where there is a high
proportion of debt.
So what is happening here? The acquirer
is investing little of his own capital.
The debt is later paid through the
target company's cash flows. So this is
a very interesting structure for an
acquirer. He or she gets great
purchasing power with minimal
investment. their capital investment is
a small percentage of the purchase
price. The debt will be paid through
targets cash flow. So this can lead to
high returns. Uh now we move to the
fourth stage which is distressed.
What is distressed investing?
Distressed investing focuses on
purchasing the debt of troubled
companies that may have defaulted or are
on the brink of defaulting.
When companies encounter financial
troubles, they may be at risk of not
being able to make full and timely
payments of interest or principle. This
is known as the default risk.
Mostly investments made in such a
company would be at a substantial
discount to par value. The thing to
remember is if the distressed company
can survive and prosper the value of the
investment will increase often by the
conversion of such debt into equity of
the new surviving company and the
investor will realize significant value
over here. So we started with venture
capital when it's at a very nent stage
very very risky investment then the
company is showing decent profitability
it's in a it's expansion phase growth
equity comes in it reaches maturity
maybe it's going through maybe there is
room for improvement there are a a
buyout can happen a leverage buyout can
also happen and then it's the declined
phase where distress or special
situations funding kicks
Now that we are clear about this basic
terminology, let's look at the structure
of private equity partnerships.
You must keep in mind two terms which
you will always come across when you are
reading about private equity. General
partners and limited partners. A
partnership's general partner is
responsible for raising capital, finding
suitable investments and making
decisions for the partnerships.
Think of you know of large private
equity firms. They are often the general
partners, the GPS who set up the private
equity partnerships.
Then they are responsible. They will
raise capital. They will find
investments. They will they will make
decisions for the partnership.
The uh the investments are usually not
managed by the GP but rather by a
professional fund manager who's hired by
the general partner. Each private equity
fund may have its own fund manager who's
responsible for the day-to-day
management of investment in the funds.
And GPS typically contribute only a very
small percentage of the capital to the
private equity partnership.
Nearly all the capital to fund
investment comes from limited partners.
So the key point to remember is general
partners have full management control
and unlimited financial liability.
GPS could lose more than their
investment in the partnership because if
necessary their personal assets could be
used to pay the partnerships's debts.
Let's talk about limited partners.
They are the investors who contribute
capital to the partnership. Think about
you know think about institutional
entities like pension funds, endowments,
insurance companies, maybe high netw
worth individuals.
They are passive investors in the sense
they invest their money but they do not
take part in the day-to-day management
or the decision making process.
So and they will have limited personal
liability. They cannot lose more than
the amount of capital they contributed
to the partnership.
So just emphasizing the key points
again. General partners have full
management control, unlimited financial
liability.
Limited partners have little or no
involvement in management
and their liability is limited to the
amount of their investments. General
partners are responsible for raising
capital. They leverage their networks to
identify potential investors. They
provide timely update to investors as
well. So now that we are clear about GPS
and LPS, let's take a quick look at the
fee structure.
A typical private equity firm makes
money through two mechanisms. There is a
management fees and there is a carried
interest. And I know carried interest is
another of another of those phases which
can be quite confusing but we'll
simplify it over here.
Management fees are the fees that
limited partners the institute for
example the institutional investors must
pay general partners to compensate them
for managing their investments. So it's
a fee for services rendered.
Simple and straightforward.
What about carried interest? It sounds
very exotic but it is nothing but a
performance fee paid to general partners
of private equity funds. Even hedge
funds have this structure based on the
returns of the fund. It's a share of the
profit on private equity investment.
It's a form of incentive fee that
general partners deduct before
distributing to the limited partners the
profit that they made on the
investments.
So key points to remember is management
fees are typically set as a percentage
of the amount of money the limited
partners are committing. Additionally,
limited partners must pay management
fees even if an investment is
underperforming
and they must continue paying the
management fees even if an investment
has failed.
Carried interest is designed to ensure
that general partners' interests are
aligned with the interest of limited
partners. Let's look at how investors
can invest in real estate. There are two
ways to invest directly or through
public or private markets.
Uh private markets there are two ways to
invest. There are real estate limited
partnerships and there is real estate
equity fund. What's a real estate
limited partnership?
These are partnerships that specialize
in real estate investments.
Now, we'll draw a parallel here to what
we just learned in private equity
because the the structure and mechanics
of real estate limited partnerships are
similar to those of the private equity
partnerships.
A real estate limited partnership is
often created by a real real estate
development firm that becomes the
general partner. So now this general
partner will raise capital from
investors who become the real estate
limited partnerships limited partners.
Remember what we just discussed the
people who are contributing the capital
are limited partners.
The capital raised is then invested in
real estate projects. Similar to
investments in private equity
partnerships, investments in real estate
limited partnerships, they are illquid.
In addition, the limited partners may
face years of negative cash flow because
the general partners may not make cash
distributions until the real estate
assets.
The office block or the apartment
complex are sold. So, think of the J
curve that we just discussed very much
holds for this space as well.
Let's talk about real estate equity
funds.
They typically hold investments in
hundreds of commercial properties.
They are open-ended funds. What is an
open-ended fund? They can issue or
redeem shares when investors want to buy
or sell. They are made out of the real
estate equity funds cash flows such as
the income received from rents and the
sale of properties. Let's look at public
real estate investments or REITs.
REITs are companies that own, operate,
or finance income producing real estate
across a wide range of property sector.
It's a good option for an investor to
earn income from real estate without
having to buy, manage or finance
properties themselves. So now we come to
our final asset class which we'll cover
today is commodities.
There are three ways for investors to
gain exposure to commodities.
Buy the physical commodity. The key
issue with buying physical commodities
is transportation storage. Where are you
going to store a herd of cattle or a
bushel of wheat or a barrel of oil? How
are you going to transport it in the
first place? Second way is you could buy
shares of natural resources or commodity
related companies.
Investors can buy shares of companies
that have a major portion of their
operations in the exploration, recovery,
production and processing of
commodities. Third way of ex buying of
uh investing in commodities is through
commodity derivatives.
What's a derivative? A derivative is a
financial security with a value reliant
upon or derived from an underlying
asset. I'm sure you must have all heard
of forwards, futures, options, swaps.
Typical commodity derivatives are these
exactly the forwards, futures, options,
and swaps.
