Hi, and welcome to the Grafana Alloy for Beginners
series. My name is Mischa Thompson and I'm a
Senior Software Engineer at Grafana. In prior
episodes, Lisa covered Alloy fundamentals and
how you can build pipelines for infrastructure
metrics and logs. In this episode, we will shift
gears to application observability and cover how
we can build a pipeline for application metrics
with Grafana Alloy. These episodes build on
one another. Before starting this episode,
make sure you've watched episodes one through
eight and completed Alloy configuration sections
one through three in the series repo. We
saw this slide earlier on, but to recap,
our mythical server, requester, and recorder each
expose a /metrics endpoint and are trying to send
logs and traces to Alloy. Our next few sections
will be to start scraping those applications and
receiving the telemetry they're sending us.
To get started. Open the Grafana Alloy for
Beginners repo, and scroll down to section four.
As a quick reminder, each section starts with
starter code, then tasks to explain the config
and what you'll need, and finally, a solution
with the finished version. Next, I'm going to go
over the pipeline. we'll be building visually and
then walk through the solution. I'd encourage
you to copy the starter code into config.alloy,
try it yourself and compare with the solution when
you're finished. If you haven't already, start up
the learning environment and open config.alloy.
Here's the pipeline that we'll be building
today. To begin, we'll start scraping Prometheus
metrics from our mythical server and requester
using the prometheus.scrape component. The scrape
component will forward metrics to a recently added
experimental component, prometheus.write.queue,
which will send our metrics to the locally
running the Mimir. This component performs
the same function as prometheus.remote_write,
which we saw in sections two and three,
but includes a revamped write ahead log
that comes with some performance enhancements.
Note that while we're using this for the demo,
remember to stick with prometheus.remote_write
in production until this component is officially
stable. But now you know an exciting upcoming
improvement. As we've done before, we'll use a
prometheus.scrape component to collect metrics
where before we used Service Discovery to find
which targets to scrape. We'll be finding them
manually in this example. Doing it this way helps
us see exactly what targets look like under the
hood, and it's also a perfectly viable approach
when you have a small, static set of services
that you want to monitor. An individual target is
defined as an object in Alloy configuration, which
is really just a collection of key value pairs.
They're similar to a map, hash or dict, depending
on your previous experience. Targets have a few
special values that can be used to control
scraping behavior, like the scrape timeout,
query parameters that should be included in the
request, individual scrape intervals, and more.
These control values always start with a double
underscores (_ _) and will be dropped before being
forwarded to other components in the pipeline, so
they will not be added as labels on metrics. The
only required field for a target, and the one
we'll be using today is the double underscore
_ _address _ _ value. This defines the network
location of the machine or service you'd like
to collect metrics from. Any non double underscore
key value pairs will be added as labels on metrics
for that target. So we're going to configure our
scrape component with two targets, one with the
address for the mythical server, and another for
the requester. We'll also be adding a group label
to both with the value of mythical and a service
label with the value of mythical-server and
mythical-requester respectively. Moving on to the
prometheus.write_queue component, which is where
we're going to forward our scraped metrics to.
It really operates the same as the
prometheus.remote_write, that you've seen before.
One notable difference is that the endpoint block
is now named. We've named ours "mimir" here, and
we've configured it to send metrics to the locally
running Mimir instance. Once you've finished
setting up your config, don't forget to reload
the configuration. Once you're finished,
scroll down to the verification section,
click on the dashboards link, go through to
section four verification, and you should now
be able to see requests coming through for all of
your different mythical services. In this episode,
we started collecting application metrics
from our mythical server and requester.
In the next episode, we'll build a pipeline
for application traces with Grafana Alloy.
