Hello and welcome to everybody today.
Thank you so much uh for joining us. So
today's session is on exploring fintech
and financial planning. I'm delighted to
introduce Asmi. Asmme is our instructor
for today and Asmi is a CFA charter
holder and a senior director for content
development at CFA institute. First um
couple of things about um the investment
uh foundation certificates. Um its goal
is to provide a comprehensive overview
of the investment industry and its
structure, function and role in the
global capital market society. Um if you
are relatively new to finance, you'd
like to learn more about finance, this
is um you know one of the best ways to
introduce yourself to it in a very
structured way. uh you get to learn real
tangible knowledge of the fundamentals
of the industry and receive a framework
to understand solve and communicate
solutions for complex issues. Course one
is industry overview and structure. Then
we got types and functioning of markets
where we talk about um exchanges and um
overthe-counter trading of instruments
in coursery. We talk about what those
instruments are. So what is traded on
exchanges and over the counter? Uh in
course four we're looking at investment
inputs and tools and part of you know
today today's webinar is really part of
course 4 AI is indeed an investment
tool. What does um what does fintech
really stand for? It's technology in
finance and any kind of technology any
kind of recent technology could
potentially be called fintech. Uh it's
all about improving financial services
through innovation. Um and how do you
improve financial services? You either
make financial services faster or you
make financial services cheaper or you
make financial services better. Um we
are already seeing some impact of this
on things like digital payments,
transfers, trading. If you take a look
at online only banks that have come
about in the last couple of years, they
have absolutely transformed for example
how you spend money when you're abroad
in a foreign currency. You can easily
use your mobile phone and swap from
dollars to pounds um to uh to euros um
and incur very very low transaction fees
for doing that uh which you know until a
few years ago would have been
unimaginable. Another aspect of fintech
is there's disruption and innovation. Of
course, for example, going by the
example of um foreign currency uh
payments. Um banks in the past,
especially traditional banks used to
earn a lot of money through uh foreign
currency um uh spending fees and
commissions and so on. And this is of
course now disrupted. Um it challenges
traditional models with services. And uh
another example of the uh this this
challenger is robo advisor which we'll
talk about later in um today's
presentation. And um peer-to-peer
lending and finally blockchain
technology u or digital leather ledger
technology u which is already
transforming many areas of finance um
things like smart contracts, insurance,
payments and so on. um even though
cryptocurrencies can be also dis
distraction um in terms of the the power
of uh of this uh of this technology. So
what is the role of fintech in um
financial planning? Let's talk a little
bit about that. What can uh financial
technology do and what can financial
technology improve um in in financial
planning? One area and perhaps some
would argue the the most um uh exciting
area of this is automated advice. AI
tools can streamline the advisory
process by generating personalized
financial plans based on user data. So
it is now possible for AI systems to
survey the clients, interview the
clients, ask many questions and then as
a result of those interview questions um
figure out what is the risk and return
requirements and other uh limitations
and other uh uh constraints of this
client and then as a result of that um
recommend a particular portfolio.
And you might say, well, isn't that what
wealth managers do? Yes, wealth managers
do that. And many wealth managers do
that extremely well. Uh the problem is
if you take a look at the um uh the
wealth management uh sector, there are
many clients who are underserved. So
there are classifications of course
within um
wealth management. Um it starts out at
the top with ultra high netw worth
individuals. Uh so you know these are
the uh the Jeff Bezos and Simon cows uh
of the world as well as famous
footballers and other athletes and so
on. Um below that you have the rest of
the high netw worth individuals.
Um, so again, these are very wealthy um,
clients and they will be served by uh,
very very good wealth managers, but
they're not necessarily going to have
somebody just assigned to them. And then
after that, you have another section
that will go by various different names.
The most common one is something that
you would call mass affluence.
And um this is the section that is
perhaps as of now or until now has been
massively underserved. So what is mass
output? I don't want to put um dollar
figures or town figures into what makes
you ultra high and high and mass
affluent because that really differs
from one geography to another. But your
typical mass affluent client would be
perhaps um you know two parents who are
both very highly successful
professionals. So for example, I don't
know um a surgeon who is married to a
successful lawyer, but unless um they
are running their own company, they're
entrepreneurs or they have inherited
wealth, they wouldn't necessarily get
into the high netw worth uh individual
category and that is um the automated
advice is possibly the most promising
for the mass affluent category that is
slightly underserved right now. Um what
else can uh fintech do in financial uh
planning? Um it could be enhanced risk
management. Artificial intelligence can
and does analyze market trends and
economic indicators uh much much more
quickly and much much more
comprehensively than humans can. Um, and
that could then be used to identify
potential risks and optimize client
portfolios much much more quickly and
efficiently than we have been able to
before. Another area is datadriven
insights.
So um advanced algorithms based on AI
can assess very very large data sets to
provide actionable insights on market
opportunities and investment strategies.
Another perhaps some would say uh less
exciting part of uh fintech in financial
planning is more efficient compliance.
Um, anybody who has ever tried to open a
new bank account or borrow money or um
or make a large deposit will know how
timestaking um the compliance procedures
can be. And of course, the bit that we
see as uh as customers is only the forms
and so on that we have to fill out. But
there's a lot more that's going on
within the compliance offices of
financial services institutions. AI can
help ensure ongoing compliance by
automating suitability checks and
detecting biases in financial advice and
detecting red flags um much much more uh
quickly and perhaps even more
efficiently uh than than humans can. So
let's now turn our attention to um the
first aspect of financial planning that
we've talked about um providing
personalized client solutions. So how
will um artificial intelligence benefit
financial planning and wealth
managements? Now, personalized client
solutions in the past used to be only
the reserve
of the very wealthy
of the ultra high netw worth
individuals. Well, this as you can
imagine requires a lot of expertise and
um to justify a wealth manager spending
this kind of attention, devoting this
kind of attention to a single client,
well, you have to have a lot of money uh
assets under uh under management. So,
how about for the mass affluence? Up
until now, the client solutions that
they would be offered would not really
be personalized, but it would be more in
the lines of choose from six. You answer
these 10 questions and we will tell you
which of these six portfolios is the
best for you. And I think you will agree
with me. I hope you will agree with me
when I say that um you can't really box
all clients in that way. um you can't
really do um you know one sizefits-all
or you can't even do you know six sizes
fit all. Um that's not really um how
personalized wealth management works.
But at the same time the amount of
assets under management wouldn't really
justify this highly personalized
approach. So um this is one area where
AI has the potential to benefit um
financial planning and wealth
management. Um the other key area is
streamlined operations. We talked about
um data analysis. AI can provide us with
insight into cloud behaviors and market
trends and that could then turn into
actionable
um investment strategies. Now finding
the optimal portfolio for each client is
not really a one and you're done kind of
activity. Um as times change two things
will happen. market conditions will
change the risk and return uh features
of different asset classes like domestic
equity, international equity, fixed
income and so on those will change over
time but as time also but but also the
client's needs will change over time. So
AI can help
create the optimal portfolio but also
maintain the optimized status of the
portfolio as clients needs change and as
markets change.
Finally,
AI can help with client engagement. And
there is already a lot of this that's
going on. Um, and you know, not just in
financial services, in retail is
probably one of the best examples of
that. Um, you I take a look at what's on
sale. I take a look at what what new
things that they got and so on. And if I
don't buy the very next day in the
morning, I will see an email on my inbox
saying uh did you see something you like
or have you forgotten to check out? So
this is AIdriven personalized
communication and um as AI becomes more
advanced we will be able to do
personalized communication for things
that are a lot more complicated than
buying a new plot or buying a new potato
peeler. And finally um we mentioned this
on the previous slide as well. AI can
really help with um risk mitigation. It
can help us monitor and manage risks in
a much much more uh quicker and
efficient manner than uh humans can.
So let's talk about the financial
planning process and what is the
financial planning process both for robo
advisors and uh for the uh for the human
touch. Let's talk a little bit about
that. So, it all starts out with
the wealth manager, whether that's a
human or a robot, talking to the client.
And what is our goal when we're talking
to the client? We want to know about the
client's objectives.
We want to know about the client's
constraints in terms of well, I need to
retire in 10 years. And all of this
leads to something that called the
investment policy statement. So the
investment policy statements in
financial terms uh will tell the
portfolio manager who will put together
the portfolio the ideal portfolio for
this client um what this client needs,
how much risk they can tolerate, how
much liquidity they want, what is their
time horizon, everything else in a
financial language. within the same
financial um uh firm. Um another team is
doing
asset class research.
What are the risk and return
expectations of different asset classes
as well as how those asset classes
interact with each other which is to say
their correlation to use a statistical
term.
So how does an optimal portfolio get
formed? An optimal portfolio will take
into account
what different assets and what different
mixtures of assets
can generate in terms of risk and return
and what the client needs. So th those
two things merge together and then
results in the optimal portfolio. What
robo advisor aim to do
is to automate this process. But
automate this um process by taking into
account a detailed survey
of clients needs
and objectives and at the same time also
automate the research and match this
automatically to come up with an optimal
portfolio. a much much better
personalized portfolio for um uh for the
client. So, let's talk about the recent
past and the future for robo advisors.
Um they've been around for a while and
in the beginning they were pretty basic.
You would answer a few questions about
your risk tolerance and they and then
they'd stick you into one of a handful
of cookie cutter portfolios. it was
efficient but not exactly tailored to
your individual needs. Now they've
gotten a bit more sophisticated. They'll
consider things like how long you plan
to invest, which is your time horizon
using financial terminology, um your
income level, and they will even include
some tax considerations into uh into
their calculations. But still, more
often than not, you are sort of nudged
into one of several preset paths. But
the exciting part is where this is
headed in the future. And this is not
going to be the distant future. Uh in
the future, we are looking at robo
advisors that don't just serve you the
same old dishes. They'll act more like a
personal chef. They will craft a unique
investment strategy based on not just
your financial goals but real time
financial data and then they'll also
take into account your spending habits
and even changes to your life
circumstances like uh a marriage uh your
new child all the way and so on. They'll
be able to adapt dynamically as you move
through different stages of life. almost
like having a financial coach that's
always on and always thinking a few
steps ahead. So, this is indeed a very
very exciting uh future.
