China is rewriting the
rules of the game in global fashion
[music] and major
Western brands didn't see it coming. They
thought it was a party for life, but it's
not like that in reality. [music]
[music]
Back with a new
YouTube video. We're going to talk about a market that
was the absolute jackpot for luxury
for 20 years and which today is
resisting the challenge and is even starting to
inspire the West in return. If you
want to understand where fashion and
culture are headed in the coming years,
this is exactly where it's happening.
Subscribe to the channel, we'll decipher all of
this together. This is Shunan 2026, I
remind you. We're aiming for 10K quickly,
huh.
For years, China was the
market everyone wanted to
conquer. The main playground of
global liking, the country where brands
thought that simply existing was enough to make it big
. For a long time, it worked, right?
European companies,
American brands,
sports giants, everyone wanted their piece of the
Chinese pie. Except that today, that
reflex is no longer enough. China has
not stopped buying. The Chinese have
not suddenly lost their taste for brands,
but they have become much
harder to reach, much more
selective and above all much less
impressed than before. They want more than just an
imported logo, an LV and that's it.
They want brands that understand
their time, their culture, their code.
They want a sense of closeness, of
identity. And if they can't find it in
Western brands, well, they'll
look for it elsewhere. That's why
local brands are gaining
so much ground, because they are more
in tune with what young
Chinese consumers want. This is
more than just one product. It's a vibe,
a culture, a recipe for those who
resemble it. In the end, just like in the West,
you only have to look at Japanese restaurants in
France which are different from what you
can find if you [clears throat]
go to Japan for example. And
frankly, that's where the subject
becomes interesting. Now,
brands are being challenged, they
have to fight back. That's really something
new. Absolutely, it can even
fail if they arrive with the
wrong codes or you can get
boycotted like crazy as happened to
Dolch Gabana, go from one crazy thing to another
. But it was done and stopped in
China and it's not just for
luxury brands, even for Nike who
have long had a huge position in
China, well they are being caught up. That's it
, the message is clear.
Chinese consumers tend to buy
Western products more instinctively. That's the
conclusion of this first part. He
compares, he decides. If local is
better, go for it. And that's soft power.
This means that China has a
stronger impact today through its
consumption on fashion, luxury, and
sports.
To understand what is happening
today, it is also important to
go back to the past. In the old days, everyone
wanted to set up shop in China,
launch campaigns, open
stores, sign ambassadors, and
hold huge events. It
could have destroyed a brand. And
for a long time, you saw the
figures that kept rising
for luxury brands and so on.
Well, it was thanks to the
Asian continent, but especially to China. The
Chinese consumer was the one who
bought heavily, who bought to show
that he could buy. We've all seen
tourists at the Champs-Élysées, at
Opéra, coming out with their hands full of
bags and everything. That's a vague memory
because after Covid was over,
we are at war.
After that, the fluit broke down and it
changed the place of Paris in
the imagination of Chinese shopping. The
problem is that we believed this
logic would last indefinitely.
When you win there, you think it's going to be
for life. No, actually it's
not like that. It's like the
2010s vibe for
sneaker resale and software brands.
They thought it was infinite, but
it's not infinite. Moreover, they have been
very profitable. But with luxury, he
did the same thing with China, he made it
profitable. But now
that the game is running, we have to
adapt. What has changed is not
just the economy, but also the way we
consume. In fact, the different
generations did not have the same
relationship. There is no longer the same fascination
with the West. The new girl is embarrassed, well, that's like
everyone else. Internet,
social networks, local trends,
Chinese creator, community codes,
they are actually at their own pace and that's where things
change.
Local brands are more often seen as copies
or secondary options. That's an
image that stuck to China for a really
long time. Firstly, the workshop of
Western countries for a very long time
and they were very good at
reusing that to their advantage and secondly,
copying. That was the image that was
attached to China before. Today, you
have Ling and Anta who have taken
the place. Ling is a
Chinese sports brand that was founded by a
former gymnast, and Anta is one of the
giants of local sports. They both
produce the same thing. In China,
local brands are no longer just
cheaper alternatives, they are becoming
serious competitors. They
become desirable. And that's a
big change. And they're not just trying
to compete with the West,
they're telling their own story.
Here, we are touching on a real driver of
change. It's not just a
matter of branding, it's a matter of
pride. Local products are becoming valued,
as we've said. It becomes a choice
that says something about you. That's where
guachamo comes in. Basically,
this rise of Chinese cultural codes
in fashion, design, lifestyle, and
everyday objects. Not just to be
traditional, but to reaffirm a
contemporary Chinese identity. And that
changes everything because we're no
longer talking about buying, we're talking about belonging.
In fact, at the end of the day, it's
still Western themes
but adapted to the Chinese market by
themselves. And that's something we
find a lot of in the Genèz Z.
And clearly, Western brands
have trouble understanding that because
they continue to think in terms of
global prestige, the incredible brand and
all that. Whereas on the other side, the logic has
changed. There is also the
geopolitical context to take into account, as
always.
Still evolving
in terms of cultural impact, today
Shangiï is a true creative scene.
Tuas Shanghai Fashion Week 2026 with
the return of Chinese designers such as
Feng Sheng Weng, Suzanne Feng, Chuchu
Tong or Anomento. In fact, that's
the scene we're currently
writing. There is a scene that is
developing in China and it is
not limited to Shanghai. Hong
Kong also plays a very strong role
with the Fashion Farm Foundation, which
presents
Hong Kong designers in Paris every year. So, for now,
the pattern is still
that Chinese designers go to
the West to get validated because Feng
Weng and all that performed well in the West
before coming back.
[music]
Kinan Lam is a good example because
his work is also based on craftsmanship.
He launched his brand in 2023. He
collaborates with artisans in Guizou
to integrate
traditional techniques into his
contemporary design. Absolutely, we're almost
in the spirit of an antique counterfeit here,
[music]
it says a lot about this new
generation. Another extremely
interesting point is that China doesn't just produce
fashion, it also produces pop
culture. Pop brand for example, it's
a Chinese brand, a canvas brand
that has totally exploded. You
know the boubou very well. Here, we're no longer just talking about
luxury or
ready-to-wear. We are in a China
that exports its visual codes, its
symbols, these desirable objects. In
fact, with Boobou and Popmart, this is
one of the first times that China has
really had an international resonance
and an ultra-strong impact in the West.
Even, for example, the images from Vog
China, the photoshoots, the covers,
the editorials, all of that is heavy and
contributes to the circulation of a
Chinese perspective on fashion. That's changed, it's no
longer just the "made in China" label,
it's more like a stamp of approval. China is
starting to have some issues.
Maison Margela presented its
first fashion show outside of Paris in Shanghai. And this
choice is not insignificant at all. In fact, this is
the decision-making process that it is
a market where the brand can exist,
like when Balanaga Linjor does fashion
shows in the United States. So it's
really about establishing visibility, and
Margela isn't the only one. Other
brands are trying to replace their
positioning with
immersive flagship stores that are suspenseful like places to
visit. Louis Viton did that with The
Louis in Shanghai. Saint-Laurent
developed its right bank concept in
Beijing. Actually, it's quite funny.
Those guys brought Rif Droite back to
China. And Balanceaga continues to test
more localized formats. So
basically, brands are starting to try
to address what we were saying before. More
meaning, more experience, more
context. But isn't it already
too late? While the brands are
fine-tuning their concept stores,
bringing their activations, their
fashion shows, well, the Chinese designers have
n't been sleeping, they're starting
to take up more and more space.
Now you understand that
China is no longer just following along, well, what
follows makes sense, it
starts to inspire. That's not just
in fashion, you have it in tech,
robotics and everything else too. In fact, it's cutting-edge
. So, it's not the same
level in fashion, let's not kid ourselves
. And luxury, but that wouldn't be long in coming
. In fact, you have Chinese codes
that are starting to become desirable in
fashion, in images, in objects.
The most striking example today
is Adidas with its Tang-inspired jacket
nicknamed the Chinese jacket. This isn't
just about an exotic jacket
or a nod to Chinese culture; it's about a moment
where a Chinese cultural reference
becomes wearable, sellable, and above all,
desirable in a Western context.
So this is the microscopic version, the
boubou. Do you see what I mean? This is
not insignificant. What does that mean in practical terms
? And that's the end of
the West imposing its codes everywhere.
We can see it with the My Chanise Iras track
on TikTok. This clearly shows that codes
circulate in the visual and
cultural uses of real life, in fact. And that's
the real issue. That's why
we made this whole video. China is no longer just about
consumers
today. These are people who will be able to
produce value from
cultural references. This will definitely
define what we might want
tomorrow. So there you have it, that
was a big question. Tell me
what you think. This is the first
time we've done content like this,
reflecting on a particular market.
It's really interesting, a bit niche.
Tell me what you thought of it.
Subscribe to the channel. You can
also follow us on other platforms.
It was State of Gamberge culture.
Will there be a global momentum
where people around the world will
say, "The Middle East is the region we
need to pay attention to"? Honestly, I don't think so
.
OK.
I feel that if there was one
region in the world that needed to be
viewed in this way, it would have been
Asia. Yeah.
