Yeah,
9:08
LA time back in the lab and shit.
My wife said, I can't say no to nobody.
And at this rate, we going to both die
broke. Got friends that ask me for money
knowing I'm in debt. And like my wife
said, I still didn't say no. People
trying to say I'm going crazy on
Twitter. My friend's best advice was to
stay low. I guess it's hard to decipher
all of the bills.
>> Hello, sir.
>> Hello, Oscar. You are looking at a very
tired man, even though I don't look it.
I've had two board meetings, a working
lunch, and now your ass asking me a
bunch of questions. So, what do you want
to know? Ask
>> maybe just start out with what's the
purpose of having a board.
>> What is the whole purpose of even having
a board? Um, and for example, is it
boring?
Super boring. That's why it's called
board meetings. A business at the end of
the day is an organization, right? What
does that even mean? That means that you
have a group of people working together
in tangent to achieve a desired outcome.
Businesses are typically for profit. So
those outcomes are typically to increase
the profitability of the business. For
who? For the owners of the business,
also known as the shareholders. Right?
Now if you have a sole proprietorship or
a consulting company then you are both
the employee of your own business you
are the owner of your own business you
control your own business. Okay. So
those three things are not divorced,
right? However, the minute you have a
larger organization that has dozens of
people, tens of people or hundreds of
people, in the case of our groups, we
have a collection of probably 250 to 300
full-time employees across the entire
groups. Well, we need to organize
resources around those people. I can
assure you that the owners do not
necessarily show up every single day and
run every single aspect of every single
one of those businesses operations. So
how do we organize ourselves? Through
structure and the structure is the
board. So the board sits at the top of
any commercial organization as the body
that sets the vision right and the
direction that sets the governance i.e.
how that vision will be achieved and
that sort of measures performance.
>> And so the board of directors is
typically led by an individual which is
referred to as the chair or the chair
person, the chairman or the chairwoman
cuz they sit in the lead chair and
typically the board might have anything
from three to up to so 20 people. But
for most small businesses it's a board
of three to six people including a
chairperson. Now in the case of our
groups both Northern Industries that's
involved in the steel uh fabrication
space right we have you know factories
that operate in the steel sector as well
as ventilation ventures that operates in
the construction HVAC space. I happen to
be the chairman of both of those groups
meaning I chair the boards. So you've
got the board of directors chaired by
myself and then we what do we do as a
board? We hire the CEO who is the chief
executive officer. So amongst a group of
other officers and executive officers,
you've got the one that's the chief, the
CEO. And the chief executive officer
builds his or her management team,
right? Which sometimes includes a chief
financial officer, a chief operations
officer. And then that team, that
management executive team then manages
the daily operations of the business
through supervisors, business unit
managing directors, general managers,
operational teams, and the employees. So
that's the structure and at the top of
the structure you have the board. So I
am the chair of the board of these two
companies. Now there's a lot going on in
these companies. In the steel group we
have just had two disasters, two
tragedies, frankly. Um unfortunately two
of our business units have recently gone
under. It's nothing to laugh about,
nothing to make fun of or light of. It's
a serious situation. So for all intents
and purposes, we are in wartime mode in
the Steel Group. um a lot of very
serious decisions have had to be made um
and continue needing to be made. So,
frankly, these board meetings are quite
serious. They're quite tense. They're
quite structured and they're quite
formal because at the end of the day, as
I've tried to allude to a few times on
this show, you know, I'm not the owner
of these businesses in the traditional
sense. I am one of the owners. I am a
participating shareholder. So, in our
steel group, I am the second largest
shareholder. I own about 17%. But what
that means is I don't own 83%. So 83% of
the shares of the Steel Group belong to
other people outside of myself. They are
the owners alongside myself. And so
given that the business that we all own
has a lot of challenges, you know, we
need to be deadly serious about the way
that we're structuring the group's
activities. So we had a board meeting
there for the steel group. Separately,
I'm also the chair and majority owner of
our construction HVAC group. So there I
happen to own about 50% just under 50%
of that group that's about £19 million
in revenue combined. Now unlike the
steel group that's under let's say
financial challenges the HVAC group has
less financial challenges but
nonetheless given the nature that
they're in the construction sector and
the nature of the way the construction
industry works sometimes there's
liquidity pressures. Okay, because
projects take a bit of time to get off
the ground. again serious times there.
So we are having separate independent
divorced you know structured sessions
discussing how to address the problems
of these two groups and to what extent
you know we have the ability and the
means and the resources to address those
issues. So that's a long story but
that's what the board does and that's
what I do as a chair and I've had two of
those damn meetings today trying to
enjoy my cup of coffee.
Did you just say you were chairman?
>> I'm chairman. Yes sir.
>> Chairman. What's that role about? What
what's your responsibility? And do you
have to attend every meeting? What's the
expectation there?
>> Yes. There's different ways to approach
this question. I mean a director being a
director in a business that's the
function that that that actually hold
that that has meaning cuz when you're a
director in any company you have a
literal fiduciary duty and you know
there it's sort of backed by law right
so there's certain duties that you have
to fulfill you know as governed by the
law and you can be a director without
being the chairman as a matter of fact
in England in English law you don't even
necessarily really need a board of
directors. So being a director like when
you register a company in the UK there
has to be at least one director by law
and that director has certain duties. Um
and the duties are to the shareholders
or the owners of that business whether
it's one owner or multiple owners
whether the same owner is the director
or whether they are third party owners
than the director you have a fiduciary
duty to owners. Completely separate to
that, you have the culture of having a
board of director, which is not
necessarily governed by law. There is no
law that dictates that every company
needs a board of directors. Does that
make sense? I mean, I understand that it
can be a bit confusing. Now, if you're a
public company, the the the stock
exchanges, whether it's the NASDAQ, the
New York Stock Exchange, the London
Stock Exchange, or any stock exchange,
they typically have their own um rules,
rules and guidelines as per the
exchange. And quite often those rules
include the requirement to have a board
of directors, which is not a national
rule to do with a country, but a local
rule for the stock exchange.
>> And typically they will have a rule that
says that that board of directors needs
a chairperson. And those rules will sort
of guide and dictate how that
chairperson should behave. But generally
speaking, private companies are not uh
governed by those rules. So really there
is no
rule of what a chairman should do.
That's sort of left to the imagination
of the owners of the business as they
see fit. But in our case, what I do as
chairman is first of all recruit the
rest of the board. Mhm.
>> Obviously, they get voted in in the
annual general meeting where at least
once a year all of the shareholders of
the company get to show up, get access
to the accounts of the business, they
get to approve the audited financial
statements of the business and they get
to vote for members of the board as well
as the chairman. So, you organize that.
You hold the management team to
accountability. So meaning you hire,
fire, replace the CEO and you make sure
that the company is governed in an
appropriate manner. So these are very
high level discussions because the daily
job changes. Right now we're in wartime
and so right now we're having lots of
board meetings. We're documenting and
all of our meetings and I am just trying
to ensure that you know all of our
businesses make it across treacherous
waters to safer harbors and that we
don't destroy any shareholder value.
>> You said recruiting members of the
board.
>> Yeah.
>> Which roles are essential to create a a
killer border? A
>> killer board. Generally speaking, like
building any team, what are you looking
for? You're looking for competence and
diversity. Competence meaning they are
fit for purpose. they can actually
deliver on the job and competency is
non-transferable right so you might be a
competent member of a board in an HVAC
group but fail to be competent in a auto
manufacturer right for example so
competency within the context of the
mandate of that enterprise of that
company what do I mean by diversity I'm
talking about DEI in the US they have
this diversity stuff where you need one
black guy one Chinese lady one tall man
and one short guy that's great but When
I say diversity, what I mean is
diversity of temperament, okay?
Diversity of skill. So, if you have
someone that's all over the finances,
doesn't miss a trick, and nothing goes
past them, and they just have an eye for
the financial detail, and they get to
the bottom of, you know, all of the
financials, and can help build robust uh
reviews around financial models put
forth by the management team, then
that's that's that that's a diverse
skill that is probably helpful and
useful in the board. But if you're a
sales-based organization like most
companies are and you need to expand and
grow whether it's through M&A or whether
it's through you know onboarding uh
enterprise clients you know it helps if
you have someone that has that knowledge
base that experience base that
competence base right you might want
someone else who's super dry and boring
not exciting at all never really
contributes but their cynicism is useful
right because they inject uh
conservatism they inject soberism into
the conversation and ensure that
decisions are being made in a fashion
that actually yield the results right
the the results of the intended outcome.
So diversity in the sense that you know
who are the people at the table such
that the best decisions are being made
again for shareholder value and if it
happens to be a Chinese woman or a black
guy or a tall man or a short you know
whatever doesn't matter okay the point
is is it the right person for the job
>> what advice would you give someone who
is new to being part of a board
>> I mean well first of all you don't just
find yourself being part of a board No.
>> Um, you know, you don't you don't it
doesn't come in a serial box. You know,
you have been selected to be a member of
a board. Typically, that's a very
serious role. It is the most senior role
in any organization. So, you don't just
happen to stumble into a board of
directors. I mean either you are a
career uh commercial individual who
works your way up the food chain of that
organization and then hopefully at some
point uh gets appointed to the board or
you build a lifetime of experience uh
and comp various competencies and become
a very serious actor you know in the
world of business and then you get
head-hunted and selected and offered
board opportunities or you are a founder
that builds a business that has some
level of seriousness whereby a board of
directors needs to be formed formed and
you occupy a seat as the founder. So you
don't just end up on a board but I would
say if you happen to find yourself on a
board probably as a founder make sure
that you know you have the right people
around you because at the end of the day
this stuff is fun and games until shit
gets real. I I joked that, you know,
things got very real for our steel
group, for example, this year. And then
all of a sudden, you realize, oh, okay,
you know, there's people's jobs at risk,
right? Um there's bank credit at play,
you know, um there's other shareholders
cuz if you're doing deal flow debt
equity, the equity part represents other
people's equity capital. That's their
that's their savings, right? people
invested in your business um by failing
to buy, you know, a piece of real
estate, by failing to buy a piece of the
S&P 500, by opting not to give that as
an inheritance to their children. Okay?
Serious fucking stuff. So, when you
accept their money, you need to treat it
with the utmost respect. And I would say
it's when shit hits the fan that you
really get to smell the breath of your
enemy. The enemy being doom and gloom.
And then you really realize just how
serious these duties are. So, I would
say, you know, don't have a board that's
made up of, you know, yesmen and cronies
and friends of yours. Uh, you know, try
to really select people that are
competent that can actually bring value
and execute whether it's good times or
bad times. And if anything, there's only
room for one sloppy individual, and
that's probably you. I mean, if if
you're asking, you know, what is your
advice for me to as the first day on the
board, you know, you're probably the
sloppy guy, which is fine, but just make
sure that everyone else is fit for
purpose. So that's my advice. And um
other than that, take this shit
seriously. Don't take yourself too
seriously. Uh could always be worse. It
ain't that bad after all, you know? Make
sure you wear bright colored sweaters.
Go out and drink coffees, right? Pet the
dog, rub its tummy, uh enjoy life,
breathe the air, stand in front of the
trees, cuz what the fuck? We're all
going to die anyway, so might as well
have fun. 0 to 100.
Let's go.
>> That was nice.
>> All right. Now your chest.
