This is how you can create amazing UI
designs for After Effects. Most
animators struggle with design. So, in
this video, I'll show you three
different methods that will help improve
your design skills. Make sure to watch
till the end as I'll reveal a secret
technique that will allow you to create
stunning UIs in seconds. The assets for
this project can be found in my Discord
server. Let's get started. All right.
For our first method, we're going to
take a screenshot and then break it up
into different sections using Photoshop.
You could do a similar technique in
After Effects using masks, but Photoshop
is just easier to use and gives us a lot
more options. I'm going to start by
taking a screenshot of this Instagram
page. Since I'm using a 4K monitor, the
elements on the screen are quite small.
So, we can just zoom in a little to
about here. And then I can take a
screenshot of the page using command
shift 3. Then hit copy. Now, we can open
Photoshop and create a new document. Hit
File, New. When you take a screenshot or
copy an image, Photoshop automatically
sets the size of your document to the
width and height of your clipboard. To
keep the screenshot quality as best as I
can, I'll leave these dimensions as they
are and then hit create. Then we can
press commandV to paste in the
screenshot. One thing I should mention
is that if you use this method, make
sure your UI has a solid background as
gradients or image backgrounds would be
too difficult to break apart. Let's
start by removing any unwanted elements
from this screenshot. Select the
rectangle marquee
tool. And we can select this bottom
portion here. By holding shift, we can
select multiple sections at once. So now
let's select the top. And you can see
that both sections are still
highlighted. Whilst holding shift again,
let's select this scroll bar. Then hit
backspace to delete those parts. Click
anywhere on the screen to get rid of the
active selection. All right. Now we can
make the background of our design the
same color as the screenshot. So select
the background layer and then the color
picker tool and choose the background
color from the screenshot. Hit al or
option backspace to fill in the
background. Now we've got something
closer to what we're going for. But it's
not centered vertically. So we're going
to trim the top and the bottom of the
design and then align it to the center.
First hide the background layer and then
select layer one which is our
screenshot. Then select the marquee tool
again and highlight the top section just
above the buttons. We can zoom in and
make sure that the selection is going up
to the very
edge. Now hit backspace to remove that
section. Then we can delete the bottom.
Making sure we're going right up to the
edge. All right, perfect. Now select
layer one and let me turn the background
layer back on. Whilst holding command,
select the background layer. Then select
the move tool and we can hit this button
to align our image vertically. Since
this image is quite large, you probably
won't be editing in 4K. We can crop it
down instead of scaling it up to
preserve the image quality. Select the
crop tool and then from one of the
corners, hold shift and option to crop
the image from the center of the canvas
while maintaining the aspect ratio. So
about here is fine. And then press enter
to confirm. All right, that's looking
great so far. It's time to break it up.
Let's make some rough cuts first and
then we'll fix them up after. Make sure
you have layer one selected. And with
the marquee tool, I'm going to highlight
this avatar. Press command X to cut and
then command shiftV to paste the image
in the same position. And then we can
rename this layer to avatar. Let's do
the same for the username. Command X and
then command shift V. Rename to username
and then
[Music]
follow then
message then free
dots
posts
followers and then
following. For the description I'm going
to cut out the entire block. But if you
wanted to animate each line separately,
then you need to cut it out line by
line. It's all up to you. So, command X,
command shift V, and name that
description. I'll just cut out this menu
as one section as well. There's a small
dividing line between each post. So,
let's cut them out, too. So, we have
post
one, post
two, and post three. Let's just rename
those. Since we cut out all of the
different sections, there's nothing left
in layer 1 anymore, so we can just
delete that. With the move tool
selected, make sure you have auto select
turned on, as it will allow us to select
layers directly from the canvas. Now,
you can see that everything can be moved
around on their own, which makes it
perfect for animation. One thing you
should know, and it will make sense if I
hide the background layer, is that all
of these layers are irregular shapes.
So, the anchor point isn't in the center
of the actual graphic. If I show you
with this layer, for example, the anchor
point is in the middle over here. So,
when I scale this up, it's not scaling
from the center of the following text.
To fix this, all we do is trim this
layer down on each of the sides. So,
let's just do that real quick.
And now when we transform it, it's
scaling from the middle of the followers
text. I'll just finish off cutting down
the rest of these
layers. All right, now it's all set up
and all the anchor points should be in
the middle of each of the elements.
Let's get this imported into After
Effects. Hit command S to save your
file. And I'm just going to name it
Instagram UI.
Open After
Effects and drag in the Photoshop
document. You'll get this popup which is
very important when it comes to
importing PSDs. You always want to make
sure that the import kind is set to
either composition or composition retain
layer sizes. I prefer the third option
as it keeps the anchor points of the
layers where I want them. The layer
options doesn't really matter for our
design. So, I'll leave it as it is and
then hit
okay. Let's open it up. And as you can
see, all of our layers are able to be
controlled separately, ready for
animation. And the anchor points are in
the center. So if we transform any of
these layers, it scales from the middle
of the graphic. And that's how you can
prepare a screenshot for After Effects.
If you're finding this video helpful so
far, then be sure to hit the subscribe
button. And if you want to start earning
thousands of dollars every single month
with video editing, then sign up to the
editing launchpad. I'll be releasing a
full beginner to mastery After Effects
course that will help grow your personal
brand and land you highquality clients.
Don't miss out on your chance. Sign up
with the link in the description below.
All right, for our second method, we're
going to trace over screenshots using
Adobe Illustrator. A lot of you guys
have been telling me that you have no
idea how Illustrator works, but it's
super simple and I'll break down
everything you need to know to get you
up and running. Start by creating a new
document, file, new. And I'll keep the
size at 1920x 1080. I've got a
screenshot ready that I took of iMes
from my phone. So, we can just drag that
in and place it in the middle. To the
right, we have our layer panel. This
works slightly different to Photoshop as
within these layers, we have sub layers.
When we import Illustrator files into
AE, all the sub layers are merged into
the parent layer. So everything inside
of this parent layer will only be one
layer in After Effects. It's important
to make sure that we split up our design
into multiple different parent layers.
If you're confused, don't worry. It will
make more sense when we import our file
into AE. Start by selecting layer 1 by
pressing this square on the far right
side. This will target all of the sub
layers within layer 1. I always like to
reduce the opacity a little so that it's
easier to trace. and then press this
square besides the colored line to lock
the layer in place. This will make sure
our image stays locked and doesn't move.
Now we can press this button down here
to create a new parent layer and rename
it to message bubble as we'll be
recreating that first. Select the
rectangle tool from the toolbar. And
before we create the shape, let's fix
the colors. I'm going to remove the
stroke by pressing the white box with a
red line going through it. And for the
fill, I'll just use any contrasting
color so that it's easy to see. We can
change it later on. All right. Create a
basic rectangle. It doesn't have to
match up yet. And then press the
selection tool. Use the bounding box and
drag each side into place so that it
matches up with our
screenshot. Something like that. Now,
using this circle, we can drag it all
the way in to create our rounded
corners. And that's the shape done. Now
create a new layer. And we're going to
work on this flick. So we can name this
message
flick. This is an irregular shape. So
we're going to have to use the pen tool
to create it. Select the pen tool and
let's set our first point about here.
You can hold shift to create a straight
line. And then set your second point.
Now we can set the third point which
would be at the tip of the flick. Hold
it down and drag to create a curve. That
looks good. Since we made a curve, you
can see that our pen tool line has
changed. We can fix this by holding Alt
and pressing on the point to remove the
handle. And then we can set our fourth
point here and drag it out to match the
curve. And finally, we can connect all
of our points together. All right,
that's the flick done. Now, let's create
the text that will go inside the message
bubble. I'll just hide both of these
layers. Select the text
tool. Create a new layer and name it
text message. Make sure the text tool is
still selected. And then we can just
type in some
text. We can change the font and spacing
in the properties tab. Apple uses the SF
Pro font which usually has 20 pixel
spacing. So from character, change the
font to SF Pro regular and set the
spacing to 20 pixels. I will also align
the text to the center. Now we can scale
the text by dragging the corner. Make
sure to hold shift to scale it
uniformly. Then we can match it up with
the text
below. That looks good to me. Let's just
turn everything back on. And you can see
it's coming along nicely. We can change
the colors right at the end. The text
around the shape are still remaining. So
let's just do those. Create a new layer.
Press T to select the text tool. And
let's just put in our text. 12 17. Let's
just scale that up into
position. Something like that. Hold Alt
and drag whilst also holding shift. That
will allow you to duplicate the text
layer and drag it in a straight
line. This font looks slightly heavier
than the time. So, I'll change the
weight to
medium. We can put that into
place. That looks fine. Then hold Al
again and drag the text to
delivered. Then we can change it. This
font also looks slightly heavier, so we
can change it to semi- bold. Hold shift
and drag to scale it into place. Cool.
We've got our general design done. Let
me hide the screenshot layer. The date
would look better higher up. You can
mess around with your designs at this
stage to get the look that you want. All
right. To finish up, we can use the
original colors from the screenshot.
Unlock layer one and turn it back on.
Target it by pressing the box over here
and make the opacity 100%. Then we can
drag it off to one side like this.
Select the message bubble and press I to
select the eyropper. Then press the
message bubble on the screenshot to copy
the color. Then we can select the
message flick and color pick that. Then
we've got the text message which is
white. And for the text layers, we can
take this gray
color. Perfect. Since we've recreated
the screenshot, we can delete it from
our file. So in the layer panel, select
layer 1 and then press on the delete
button. Let's make sure that these free
text layers are also in their own parent
layers. Open up layer 5 and create a new
layer. Name it delivered and put the
delivered text in there. Make another
layer, name it today, and put the text
in there. And this one we can just
rename to time. So now all three of
these layers are split up. And let's
just drag this text down a little. All
right. Lastly, we need to add in the
black background. So I'm going to create
one more layer and name it background.
Drag it to the very bottom of the
layers. Select the shape tool and change
the color to
black. Place your cursor to the corner
of the artboard. Your cursor should
automatically snap to the corner. And
you can see there's pink lines
indicating we've reached the edge. Then
just drag it to the opposite corner to
create your
background. And there we go. We've
created our iMessage scene and we can
now import it into After Effects. Hit
command S to save. I'm going to name it
iMessage
UI. Now let's open up AE and drag this
iMessage UI file into the project panel.
Just like Photoshop files, this pop-up
will appear. Under import kind, you want
to make sure you select composition so
that you can access all of the layers.
The layer option section should be
grayed out. And under footage
dimensions, you can choose either layer
size or document size. I usually go with
layer size so that the anchor points are
in the middle of the different elements.
Then hit okay. Open up the composition.
And as you can see, all of our layers
have been successfully imported. Let me
show you why Illustrator files are so
great. So let's say we wanted to
increase the size of this message
bubble. Usually the graphic would lose
quality and the edges especially will
become very blurry. But we can hit the
check box here to continuously rasterize
our layer and that will give us the best
possible quality. It makes quite a big
difference. We can also rightclick the
layer create and create shapes from
vector layers. This will create an after
effects shape from the illustrator layer
which will give us options to mess
around with such as the path and fill
settings. So, we could change this path
around and use it to shape morph. You
can even add shape modifiers to this
layer and create some pretty cool
animations. The only downside is that we
can't make these text layers editable.
If we go to create, we can see that the
option is grayed out. But there is a
workound to this. Let's head back over
to Illustrator. We can export this file
as a Photoshop document and then copy
those text layers over to the
Illustrator composition. Let me show you
how. First go to file export and then
export as and from this dropown select
Photoshop. Make sure you tick use
artboards as this will include the
entire canvas. If you don't tick it,
your file will be cropped to the edges
of your design. Hit export and then
okay. Go back to After Effects and drag
in the Photoshop document that we just
created. Set the import kind to
composition retain layer sizes and hit
okay. and then open it up. Inside of
these comps, we'll find our text
layers. Hit command C to copy. Then go
back to the Illustrator comp. Select the
deliver text and press commandV to paste
the Photoshop layer. Then we can simply
delete the Illustrator layer. Now we've
got this in its place, which we can
convert to editable text. You can apply
your text animations or presets to this.
Make sure you do this for all of the
text layers you want animated. One quick
tip for when you're trying to recreate
complicated UIs is if we wanted to
create this YouTube page, it would be
difficult to recreate some of these
icons such as the bell or the
microphone. And there's a super easy way
to extract these from the website, which
is by using this Chrome extension called
SVG export. Simply add it to Chrome and
it will add this icon up here. We can
head back on over to YouTube and press
the icon to extract all of the SVGs.
Download whichever ones you need for
your designs by hitting this download
button. Go back to Illustrator and from
our downloads, we can import it by
dragging it in. It's white, so we can't
really see it. I'll just select it and
change the color. And there you go. You
can copy this into your designs and use
where needed. We'll be covering more
complex designs and animations in the
editing launchpad, so stay on the
lookout for that. All right. And now for
the method all of you guys have been
waiting for. How to create complicated
UIs in the fastest way possible. We're
going to be using an app called Figma
for this. Figma is a vector graphics
editor usually used for creating
websites and app interfaces. And there
are tons of free UI kits available
online for us to take advantage of. All
right, first open up your browser and
search for any UI you want followed by
Figma. I'll just search for Mac OS
Figma. And that gives us lots of results
for different Mac OS UIs. We'll just go
for the Mac OS Big S UI Kit. You might
need to create a free account and log in
here. And once you've done that, hit
open in
Figma. Right away, we've got a bunch of
different UIs to use. If you want to
take the easy way out, you could use the
free AUX plug-in to import these designs
directly from Figma into After Effects.
There are tons of videos on YouTube
showing you how it's done, but
personally, I don't use it as sometimes
it's a little buggy or it doesn't import
correctly, and I like to modify and set
up my files in a particular way using
Illustrator before importing into AE,
which is what I'll be showing you how to
do now. We'll use the Finder for this
example. Keep double clicking until the
blue outline is around the Finder
window. You can move it around to check
that you have the right thing selected
or you could even look to the left panel
which shows us that the finder group is
highlighted. All right. Now we can right
click copy as and copy as SVG. We can
now go into
Illustrator file new. 1920x 1080 should
be fine. And press command V to paste in
the design. Under the properties tab we
can use the alignment buttons to get it
centered. Then from the corner, drag it
up whilst holding shift to increase the
size. Since we're using vector shapes in
Illustrator, we can make it larger
without losing quality. All right, so
when we copy SVGs from Figma, it imports
them into one parent layer. I'm going to
open up the groups within this layer
until we can see all of the objects.
Select the first one, scroll to the
bottom, and whilst holding shift, select
the last one. This will highlight all of
the layers and just drag them out of the
group like that. Some of the groups were
clipping groups, which is why these
icons have spilled out, but we don't
really need these ones, so we can just
delete them. Cool. Before we split up
our design into different layers, you
can take this time to customize the
design to your liking. Whether you want
to change the colors, swap out icons,
make things bigger or smaller, you can
use the techniques I showed in method
two to modify the design. Now, one more
thing I should mention is that text
layers imported from Figma are vector
layers and not actual text objects. So,
we will need to replace them using the
text tool if we want to animate them in
After Effects. Select the text tool and
make a text layer. I'm going to copy the
text already here and change the font to
Apple's font, which is SF Pro. This is
probably SF Pro regular.
We can set a spacing of
20 and then scale it into
position. That looks good. Then we can
drag it down, delete the vector text
layer, and replace it with this. Now,
when you import it into After Effects,
you can use a Photoshop export as shown
in method 2 to convert it into editable
text. Do this for any text objects you
need. For the sake of time, I'll just
keep it as this one. All right. Now that
we've made all of our changes, we need
to split all of these layers into their
own parent layers. Trying to do it one
by one would be way too timeconuming.
But there's a trick to doing it really
fast, which is by selecting layer 1,
then press the free lines icon up here,
and then we can press release to layers
sequence. That's just created a bunch of
layers within layer 1. Hold shift and
select all of the layers and drag them
out of layer 1.
Now each layer is separated and ready to
be imported into After Effects. I won't
do this right now, but make sure you
name your layers so that they're
organized and will make it easier to
animate. Let's save our design and then
head on over to After Effects. Drag the
Finder file into the project panel. Make
sure it's set to composition and hit
okay. Let's open that up. Here we have
every single element split up into
different layers and you can animate
each one however you'd like.
Remember that to edit these text layers,
you need to export a Photoshop file and
copy it over. And that's how you create
different UIs using Photoshop,
Illustrator, and Figma. I want you guys
to take what you learned from this and
my previous videos and tag me in some
cool UI animations on Twitter. Hope you
guys found this video helpful and I'll
see you next
