I'm Lukas Fittl, founder and CEO of pganalyze.
We're going to talk about
how to optimize slow queries in Postgres.
Specifically, when you have an EXPLAIN ANALYZE
output and you don't know how to interpret it,
I'm going to give you a few tips and tricks
and a better mental model
for working with slow queries in Postgres
and how to fix them.
Alright, let's dive in.
So there's five things
we're going to talk about today.
First, how to debug why a query is slow.
Second, how we can benchmark queries
with EXPLAIN ANALYZE with the BUFFERS option.
Third, how planner costing works
and why it really can never be perfect.
Fourth, we'll talk about JOIN order and how
parameterized index scan greatly affect
query plans.
And last, we'll talk a little bit about how
we can guide the planner to the right plan.
So generally, you know, I think it's important
to have a good sense
for how you go about debugging, right?
Like what a good debug loop
is that you can think of.
And usually I start in debugging when I'm saying,
well, is a query always slow
or is it just sometimes slow?
Typically, you know, here we have a query
that has 1.4 seconds of average execution time,
but the outlier took 14.6 seconds, right?
So this is usually a good starting point
saying, well,
why did it take 14.6 seconds in that one case?
Oftentimes, I/O Time can be a problem.
So I/O Time might be, you know, a particular node
just taking either loading more data
or maybe the disk is overloaded.
And that greatly influences,
of course, the total runtime of the query.
And unfortunately, especially in the cloud, I/O
latency can be pretty bad.
Postgres 18, which is the upcoming Postgres
release, will make some of these things better.
But for now, on most production
systems, we'll have really inefficient I/O
on some of these cloud provider
network storage options.
Also, sometimes what we see is not
necessarily IO being the problem,
but the plan having changed, right?
So a query might have a good query plan
and a bad query plan.
For example, maybe an ANALYZE ran recently
and changed the internal statistics
or other things caused the plan to change.
And so really where we're starting with,
we say, well, we had a slow query.
It's slow.
What can we do?
So we start a benchmark query with
EXPLAIN ANALYZE,
which is basically put
EXPLAIN ANALYZE in front of the query.
We form a thesis on
what to change based on that EXPLAIN ANALYZE.
Then we try out a change, which might be rewriting
the query or other optimizations.
And then hopefully, what we're trying
to get to is that we actually made the query fast.
And then we figure out a way to make that
change permanent, right?
This is a loop that people go through day to day
all the time with Postgres, right?
As they're debugging slow queries.
So this shouldn't come as a surprise to you
if you've had a slow query in your life before.
But what I want to give you is basically better
tools of working in each of those steps.
So just in case you're not familiar,
I want to repeat
maybe the most important things
about how to interpret EXPLAIN ANALYZE.
So EXPLAIN ANALYZE, right?
We just, you know, either put EXPLAIN
without the ANALYZE in front of a query,
EXPLAIN (ANALYZE),
or then EXPLAIN (ANALYZE, BUFFERS).
In the upcoming Postgres 18 release,
BUFFERS will be a default.
So if you just run EXPLAIN ANALYZE without
specifying BUFFERS, it will automatically be set.
You can do buffers off if you want to turn it off.
Now, an EXPLAIN output without the ANALYZE
just gives us the query plan that Postgres
wants to use, but it doesn't tell us anything
about, you know, the actual execution statistics.
For that, we have to add EXPLAIN ANALYZE,
which in this case
shows us that the query executed
in 307 milliseconds of runtime.
And it also tells us things like,
did a particular plan node perform,
you know, worse than expected?
Did it remove a lot of information after,
for example, scanning the table and such?
And then when we add the buffers option,
or again, if you're in Postgres 18,
then you'll actually get information
like I/O timings and how much data was read.
This is really important
because it helps you understand
whether the slowness of the query comes
from the amount of data it's working with that
it had to load from disk,
if the data was in the cache and such, right?
So it's really important information
for debugging.
Now, when we see buffers,
we mean if a buffer is an 8 kilobyte buffer page,
basically the internal, you know,
storage of Postgres is structured this way.
So each time you load data,
even if you load just a single row,
you'll have to load a full 8 kilobytes of buffer
page from the disk or from the memory.
Now, the number of
how many, you know, rows you have per
page is greatly influenced by table bloat.
So if you have a lot of, you know, dead rows
and then your table bloats
and you have a lot of empty space in your table,
that greatly influences
how effective your scans are.
And so it is important to watch these buffer
counts if they're unexpectedly high.
Also, the other thing to note
is if you see a hit counter in the buffers output,
that means it's a cache hit.
That's generally a good thing,
but it can be confusing because the problem is
if you have a nested loop, the loop loops over
the same, basically, data over and over again.
What can happen is that it
basically double counts the same buffer block.
So in this case, for example,
it might have been that
there were only 12 buffers uniquely loaded,
but 1,200 buffer accesses occurred.
And so you've got to interpret
these hit counters when you see them.
The other thing to know with
EXPLAIN ANALYZE is that it has overhead.
So when you run a query without EXPLAIN ANALYZE,
and it's a query
that doesn't work for a lot of rows,
usually the measurements are pretty similar,
right?
However, once you have a query
that's very slow, in this case,
you know, the query just from measured
from the client side takes 340 milliseconds.
But if you measure the query
with EXPLAIN ANALYZE in the picture,
without timing, which means no
per node timing information, it's similar, right?
It's 404 milliseconds,
so we added a little bit of overhead here,
but where it gets really bad
is if you have timing on
and the buffers option on, then Postgres basically
measures each repeated access to a plan node,
and that just takes a lot of time.
And so when you benchmark,
EXPLAIN ANALYZE will give you the
insights into what's going on,
but you should always run it without the
EXPLAIN ANALYZE also to get the
true performance basically
without the overhead of measuring this.
Now let's talk a little bit about Planner Costing.
So Planner Costing is basically the mechanism
the planner uses internally to decide
which query plan to use.
So, you know, core mechanism here, right?
It's like we looked at,
you know, we have a bad query plan,
we found it in EXPLAIN ANALYZE,
now let's form a thesis on what to change.
That thesis has to interact with how the planner,
you know, comes up with a plan.
And so as Tom Lane said in the presentation
many years ago,
ultimately the planner's task is fuzzy, right?
So there can be many valid plans
for the same query,
but it's not always clear
which one is the best query plan.
And so basically
the planner has to find a good query plan,
but it also shouldn't
spend too much time or memory finding it.
And it also needs to support
the extensible aspects of Postgres, right?
And especially that last point means sometimes,
you know, Postgres has to do more work
to figure out which data types being
used and such, which index access methods exist.
And so some limitations exist
because the planner is extensible, but then also
wants to consume finite CPU and memory.
So most important thing to know is
the planner does not find all possible plans.
It actually discards plans
that look bad pretty quickly.
Also, it doesn't change plans
when expectations don't hold true.
So if your row count is off,
then it doesn't fix that.
It doesn't rerun.
And also it doesn't know if past executions of the
same query had a bad plan that performed badly.
It will happily keep doing the same slow query.
So really cost
estimation is how the planner makes decisions.
Ultimately garbage in, garbage out, applies here,
as Tom said in the mailing list comments
some time ago.
So basically, if you, you know, put bad data
into the query planner, as in bad statistics,
you'll get a bad query plan.
Now, quick information here is we can
look at the costs on each of these plan nodes.
The cost basically has a startup cost component,
which is the first row you're fetching.
And the total cost is if you fetched all the rows
with that particular method.
In this case, index scan,
if we basically scanned for all those rows.
Now here, we estimated that there's
10,000 rows being fetched,
which is the output of that plan node.
Then we also, the planner also estimates
how wide each of these rows is.
But what is cost really?
Cost is not really a specific unit.
It's more a currency that the planner uses
when it does its cost-based search, right?
So it doesn't like, you could argue that maybe
what it means is the cost of sequential scan.
So one of the core things, if you look at how
Postgres internally costs a sequential scan on a table,
it basically multiplies the sequential page cost,
which is set to one by default
with the number of pages you're looking for.
So if you have a table that has,
you know, 8,000 pages,
the sequential scan costs will be 8,000, roughly.
So you could say that, you know, that base
sequential scan cost basically is
what all the other costs are based on.
Most importantly,
what's the cost of an index scan?
Well the cost of an index scan is dependent
on which index access method you're using.
So if you use a B-tree index, it's going to be
different than if you use a Hash or BRIN index.
And because, again, Postgres is extensible, this
passes down to the particular index access method.
For example, in the case of a B-tree index,
we have the btcostestimate() function.
That function ultimately tries to figure out
how selective is
the part you're looking for in the index
with doing a selectivity calculation,
and then it multiplies
that with the number of tuples,
and then it, you know, factors
in the regular costs.
Now, this function here, this clauselist_selectivity
function is one of the key facts
that will impact your query plan's
performance, or the query plan's quality, rather.
So this here basically works
from limited information, where it's like,
you're looking for this, you know, kind of,
we have these filters on this table,
and you're trying to say,
is this likely to be found, right?
Like,
am I looking for something that's very unique?
Or am I looking for something
that's very common in the table?
And that then drives how selective your query
is, how selective your search is, basically,
in the table or the index. Now,
this, you know, then drives the cost, right?
Because the cost basically multiplies
with the selectivity number.
So for example, the way we can see the selectivity
number is kind of indirect, because it's
the total number of rows times
the selectivity, right?
That's the row number you see in the plan.
The most typical issue why you get bad row
estimates is because clauses are not independent.
What that means is if I'm saying
“a=1”, “b=1”, “c=1”, “d=1”, and “e=1”,
then basically,
if all the 'a' that are 1 also have “b=1”,
or there are no “c=1”s that have “d=1”, right?
So basically, if there's dependencies between
those different conditions,
Postgres does not know that by default.
And so because of that, what Postgres will do
is will think if you add more conditions,
things become more specific,
so it will underestimate the rows.
Now, we can improve this
by using the CREATE STATISTICS command.
So the CREATE STATISTICS command basically
tracks additional information,
specifically this dependency between columns that
lets us then improve the situation.
Another problem on selectivity,
though, is join estimates.
So join estimates are really complicated
and often wrong.
I won't have enough time in today's
talk to really go through all the details here.
But suffice to say, if you want to look for this,
look at the Postgres source.
One of the things to know about joins is that the
most common value lists are being used for that.
So Postgres, when it does an analyze run,
will collect the most common values in a table.
And then if those basically align with,
you know, the two tables being joined,
that is used to drive,
you know, some of the join estimates.
But one of the ways you can improve,
you know, the quality basically
of a join selectivity estimate is you can increase
what's called the statistics target.
That then increases the number
of most common values that are collected.
And that way you might get a better estimate
of how many rows get returned by a joined node.
Now let's talk about joins
in a little bit more detail.
So ultimately, when we talk about joins,
we have to think about two tables,
in this case, A and B being joined.
So here we see a sequential scan on A,
index scan on B,
and we join those two
together in a nested loop join.
Oftentimes joins are more complicated, right?
So in this case,
maybe we join the result of that A and B join
with another table C,
and then it becomes A, B, C as a join.
This here is what we call the join order.
So in this case, the join order is A, B, C.
We can also turn this around.
So maybe,
just to illustrate the difference here,
maybe the join on C happens earlier
and then the join on B happens last,
and so the join order becomes A, C, B.
This performs differently, right,
because you basically filter things out
earlier or later depending on a join order.
This ultimately drives a couple of things.
So, for example, join order can influence
which scan methods get used.
We'll talk about parameterized
index scans in a moment.
Join order itself also can just, by virtue of,
you know,
eliminating information earlier or later,
influence the performance of a query plan.
And then join methods,
like whether you have a nested loop join,
a hash join, or a merge join, also, again,
you know, are a choice
the planner makes and are influenced
by the join order and the scan methods, right?
So all of these are kind of interdependent
with each other.
One of the things you can do,
and we've done some kind of
prototyping around this ourselves at pganalyze,
is you can detect the join order in captured EXPLAINs.
So imagine you use auto_explain,
you're looking at all the slow execution outliers,
you can actually analyze
which join order is being used by your queries.
And so the one thing that surprised me
when we did this
is that it actually does change for the
same query, right?
So you might think Postgres
chooses one join order and keeps it,
but the reality is
that depending on the input parameters,
Postgres will use different join orders
because it thinks that
maybe the data being returned from one part of
the join is going to be less in one case.
And so mapping this out can be useful for
highly frequent changing queries, basically.
The other thing to...
think about is
how can we filter on particular parts, right?
So here in this query, we have a sequential scan,
and you can see that in this case
we have a hash join, and so the hash join is
the one that basically does the merging
of the two, and the filtering happens on t2.
There's no filtering when we load the data,
it's really when we join the data that we filter.
Now, the most important thing to think about here
is that we might have what we call
a parameterized index scan,
where basically, here's a nested loop, and
parameterized index scans require nested loops.
And basically what happens is that you first load
the data from the one table, and then each of
the result outputs from, in this case, t1,
gets passed to the index scan on the second table.
And so this means that, for example,
when our query says,
load from table 1 and also load from table 2,
and then match up the table 1 ID with the table 2 ID.
Postgres doesn't know what the value
is it's searching for,
and so the choices you have
here are basically very limited, right?
But if you have an index, in this case, on t1 ID,
on that second table that you want to use,
you have to first know
the values you're looking for.
And so it's going to get the values
first from the first table,
and then put them into the second table
to basically locate
the actual rows.
Another way of putting this, right, is like,
these are basically the same query,
just two different plans.
Here you have a hash join,
and then if you have no index scan
that's usable without the value being known,
then you basically either have to hash join
a sequential scan on the left side here,
or you have a nested loop join
with an index scan on the right side.
And the index scan uses this parameterized index
scan, parameterized because it inputs
the values from the other table.
Parameterized index scans
must be on the other side of the nested loop.
So this is where a join order comes back, right?
If we have a bad join order,
we're not going to get this.
Now, let's think a little bit more about
how we can guide the planner to the right plan.
So when we think about query being slow, right?
We formed a thesis,
we understood kind of the costing,
what's going on, the join order, like,
we looked at all these attributes.
Now we're trying to say,
what can we try to improve this, right?
How can we actually get to a better plan?
One of the things I like to do
is trying to force a good plan,
and then seeing why Postgres chose a bad plan.
So one way you can think about
this is you have this query, right?
The planner produces,
for a particular value, a good plan.
But then there's also always a bad plan,
ultimately, right? The bad plan has a cost.
And what you're hoping for with a cost-based
estimate by a planner is that
the estimate models, the reality, meaning the bad plan
doesn't get chosen because it has a higher cost.
Now, what can happen, right, is like
you might have different input values.
So in this case, they might have
different object_id that you were looking for.
And so the bad plan gets chosen
because the cost is different, right?
And so even though basically it's the bad plan,
because of the input value having different selectivity
we're getting the bad plan
because there's lower cost, right?
So again, this case, bad plan has cost 300,
the good plans cost 500.
Postgres doesn't know ahead of time
which plan is going to be better.
And so it chooses the worse plan, basically.
So one of the things we can do to improve
the situation is we can turn off planner features.
So planner features
are, for example, sequential scans.
So let's say we get a bad plan that's a sequential
scan and a good plan that's an index scan.
Well, we can say “SET enable_seqscan = off”,
which means Postgres
basically makes the sequential scan
extremely expensive in old versions.
Or in Postgres 18, this is changed
with an explicit disabled plan nodes setting.
So it's just visualized a little bit differently.
But the fact remains the same.
If the sequential scan is the only viable option,
it will still give you a sequential scan.
It's just extremely unlikely to do that
if there's any other way
to basically give you a query plan.
Now, in this case,
what we see, right, is like we get the good plan.
And most importantly,
we know that the good plan has a cost of 500.
So once we have the right plan, we can
then look at the right plan with the wrong costs.
We can find out where our mis-estimate
is happening.
For example, another thing you can try
is if you're seeing your hash
or merge join being used,
but you wanted to use nested loop,
you could turn off merge and hash joins
and see what the nested loop plan looks like.
Now, sometimes this works really well,
and sometimes it doesn't work well.
And where it doesn't work
well is when you have complex queries
where maybe you want to turn off nested loops
for one part of the query plan,
but you want to keep nested loops
for another part of the query plan.
And so for this, we can use pg_hint_plan.
So pg_hint_plan basically lets us specify specific
parts of the query to be done differently.
So here, for example, we have a bad plan with a
particular join order that we don't think is good.
And so we can,
we also know that there's another plan
that worked better.
And so what we can do is
when we look at the good plan, basically,
we come up with an idea
of how exactly to force the order.
And in pg_hint_plan, look it up.
It's going to take a long time
to explain all the details,
but basically, pg_hint_plan has things like,
for this table, use this index.
For joining these other tables, use this order.
So it's basically prescriptive
about how the planner should do things.
And so in this case, now we know that the
good plan, for example, had a cost of 1.4 million.
The bad plan, in this case,
without the Memoize function,
had 14 million cost,
so that actually would have been fine.
It would have been worse.
But because of the Memoize feature in Postgres,
the bad plan was chosen because the bad plan
had a cost of 900,000 instead of 1.4 million.
And so now you know that, okay,
what happened was Memoize made that difference,
basically, between those plans.
So to summarize, there's basically 6 ways
to guide the Postgres planner that I can
think of right now
that I would like to give you on your journey.
First of all, if you have simple scan
selectivity issues, so if you
have a problem where the Postgres planner
gives you the wrong row count,
look into using CREATE STATISTICS.
CREATE STATISTICS collects additional information.
This doesn't work for cross-table situations,
but it works well if you have these
functional dependency issues.
If you have join selectivity problems,
increase your statistics target
to increase the number of most common values
to help the join improve selectivity.
Sometimes with join selectivity,
you can also force materialization,
which is another technique
I sometimes like to use.
Reviewing cost settings can help.
So as I mentioned, these Postgres settings,
like random_page_cost, sequential scan costs,
they do significantly influence
what the planner does.
And so, again, one common problem might be that,
for example, random_page_cost
is still set to 4 by default, and so
random_page_cost being high means that you
get certain indexes being used versus others.
Like there's lots of details to this,
but basically reviewing those settings
and sometimes lowering
random_page_cost in particular can make sense.
Sometimes,
and we didn't talk much about this today, but
it makes sense to understand
what particular biases the planner has. So
one common situation
I've encountered is ORDER BY limit.
And so sometimes that causes a bad query plan,
and so creating multi-column indexes
in the right way is a good thing to think about.
As mentioned,
materialization is a way to fix things.
So if you don't want to use a planner hint,
which you shouldn't,
if you can avoid it, using the materialized
keywords for CTEs lets you control
which part gets loaded first in Postgres.
So that's kind of a neat hack sometimes.
And then one trick
that I would give on the journey
for anybody who runs a multi-tenant app,
where you have different customers,
but they're all in the same database, right?
So you have a shared kind of table
for all the customers.
It makes sense
to basically give more of your tables
a customer ID identifier or something
that basically identifies the tenant,
and then adding explicit clauses
and duplicative clauses to your query plans.
That seems a little bit nonsensical,
but the reason you do it
is that the planner basically has more choice
in terms of query plans, because it's not forced
to use a parameterized index scan.
And as a kind of overarching principle,
I would say choosing better statistics
or rewriting queries is always better
than choosing planner hints, right?
So planner hints
really should be a method of last resort.
pg_hint_plan works.
Some people use it in production,
but it is not efficient.
It causes overhead on each query we're using it.
And so I would only use it
if you have no other way of fixing a query.
And that's basically it, right?
So query plan optimization isn't
magic necessarily, right?
It is, in a sense,
a deterministic process that Postgres does.
And so I'd really encourage you
to basically experiment,
try to get a better mental model
of how Postgres comes up with these query plans.
And if you're interested, pganalyze helps
you make these things easier.
But I do think that there's a lot of things
you can do just with psql shell or pgAdmin
and just running EXPLAIN and having
a good mental model of how row estimations work.
I'm looking forward to talking more about this.
If you want to reach out to me,
feel free to email me, lukas@pganalyze.com.
I'm always happy to talk about
how to optimize Postgres queries.
Thank you.
