Asset based finance. A day in the life
connecting our world.
[Music]
Your car loan,
your credit cards,
your mortgage.
All these financial products can be used
to create contractual cash flows that
create credit investments. They provide
yield for investors and the capital that
businesses need for the products that
people use every day.
Meet Alex. From the moment she wakes up,
she's connected to a type of capital
that runs through her everyday life.
Assetbased finance, or ABF for short.
Every ABF instrument is created with an
underlying pool of assets with
contractual cash flows like car loans,
credit cards, and mortgages. Although
Alex doesn't realize it, ABF is the
source of capital that powers her world.
Alex begins her day connected online.
technological infrastructure that's
possible because telecom companies turn
their customers monthly internet bills
into ABF securities, creating the
capital for the development of the cell
towers and fiber networks that provide
Alex with lightning fast connectivity.
Alex's cell phone contract is pulled
with thousands of others, forming the
collateral for ABF. When these
securities are sold to investors, the
telecom companies then reinvest the
proceeds into new cell towers,
infrastructure, and data centers to
improve the user experience.
When Alex pays her cell phone bill each
month, her payment is likewise pulled
with thousands of others and used to
repay ABF investors and generate yield
on those investments.
Alex's home is financed through a
mortgage that through ABF has been
grouped with thousands of other
mortgages to create securities that
provide capital for other home buyers.
By giving mortgage lenders the ability
to recycle their capital, they're able
to make more loans. These efficiencies
allow more homeowners to afford a
mortgage. It also means that investors
like endowments and foundations and
maybe even Alex's pension may earn more
yield. It's a virtuous cycle. The car
Alex drives to work is financed through
an auto loan bundled into an ABF
portfolio that provides the capital,
which makes car financing available to
millions of others.
Even the roads and bridges Alex drives
on are financed through infrastructure
securities backed by the tolls she and
other commuters pay.
The biotech company for which Alex works
thrives on research that's also funded
by ABF. As pharmaceuticals are licensed
worldwide, they create royalties and
licensing fees that generate cash flows
that make Alex's important work with the
potential to save lives possible. Alex
is connected to the ABF markets in other
ways, too. When she orders delivery for
lunch and pays with her credit card, the
transaction is part of a flow of credit
receivables that back financing critical
to other businesses. Even when she's out
with friends, Alex is still connected to
and benefiting from ABF.
The licensing revenue from the games,
part of the collateral that media and
sports outlets use to finance their
efforts to expand entertainment
opportunities.
When Alex winds down in the evening, her
music subscriptions and royalties from
the songs she downloads support new
music and other artists. Alex goes to
sleep, connected to the world of ABF in
ways she never imagined.
Asset based finance makes so much of
what Alex enjoys possible and helps fuel
investment and growth in the world's
economy.
[Music]
