Hello, my name is Christian Clausen.
I'm a technical agile coach and author of
the refactoring book, "Five Lines of Code."
I'm sitting here with Michael Feathers, the
author of the book, "Working Effectively With
Legacy Code," which has helped thousands of
developers since it was published in 2004.
Michael, what are you up to these days?
What am I up to these days?
Lots of things.
I'm a chief architect of Globant, but I also
do training and consulting independently as
well.
Yeah, I think I kinda, like, of broadened
my focus beyond legacy code in the past five,
or six years or so, but it's just been very
fun.
So I like to think about things at a deep
level, and there are a lot of interesting
things on the horizon now to play with.
So that's pretty much what I'm up to.
Cool.
You're not looking at legacy code anymore.
Is that because you've fixed all of the legacy
code in your vicinity?
No, no, no.
I mean, people keep writing it all the time,
right?
So it's like, that's impossible.
But, no, it's not that I'm not dealing with
it.
It's just, basically, I think my scope has
expanded.
I'm just looking at some other things also.
Yes.
I guess that's the best way to put it.
Okay.
Well, that leads naturally to my first sort
of question.
If you were to write the book like today,
is there anything about it you'd change?
Well, it's an interesting thing because I
almost feel like the core of the book, the
core ideas, are kind of like a little bit
timeless in a way, and that's why I guess
it still continues to sell very well now.
But I think it would make more nods to current
technology sort of like that it kind of like
reaches the reader and says, "Hey, by the
way, I know about this thing that you're dealing
with right now," but still it's like it's
this kind of a problem of refactoring and
testing, that kind of thing.
So it's more like how do you sort of approach
the reader?
That kind of thing.
There's a lot more now that I would say about
how legacy code happens because that's been
almost like the sideline pursuit I've had
over the past 10, 15 years.
It's kind of like you go around and you're
helping people with all these problems and
you're kind of like, okay, well, how do we
avoid all these things, right?
And Agile had some answers that have been
several other things, but understanding the
real mechanics of how it happens and really
how you can avoid them at an organizational
and individual level.
It's been, like, a lot of what I've been thinking
about, and I think I would go and add to the
book.
That and functional programming, because there
wasn't very much at that point.
Well, that seems interesting because, to me,
it will feel like legacy code is inevitable.
It's just when code ages, it becomes legacy.
I think also we should probably deal with
a question that is very popular at this time
very much in the media, and it's AI, and machine
learning, and what effect that will have on
code quality and legacy code in particular.
Is refactoring gonna be outdated?
Well, it's an interesting thing about that.
So I've been playing around with it a lot
recently, and I don't know.
I sense that we're safe for a little while
in a way.
I think there are a couple of different things
that kind of go together with this.
One is that we've had code generators for
ages within software development, and there
have always been people who say at some point,
we'll just be able to generate the applications
and we'll be set, right?
But there are always, these interesting things
like, you know, it's like what does the thing
do well?
How much effort is it to go and actually sort
of hone in on the thing that you need?
And I guess, the other big thing with this
too, is that code is still the representation
language, right?
We are generating code.
We need to understand code well enough to
be able to go and work with it and sort of
like gauge the correctness of solutions because
it's still...
There's, like, the hit-and-miss thing with
AI right now.
It'll give you something that's good sometimes
and other times doesn't compile, or it's kind
of like off track because it's dealing with
the ambiguity of your natural language, right?
So I think we've got space in this.
But I think, in a way, prompting is just gonna
become another form of programming, right?
And then we have to kind of figure out what
do we do to go and sort of like make the stable
pieces we can generate and then the ones that
require more attention.
So we'll still need modularity at a very coarse-grained
level in some way.
Those are some thoughts about that, I guess,
right?
Yes Sort of like a, it'll be a new type of
REPL like ChatGPT.
Yes.
Well, you have to coax it and prompt it, right?
Yes.
And you have to guide it.
Like you have to learn to guide it and say,
oh, I know it's gonna trip out over these
things.
And, like...
Right.
So it becomes just a… it becomes a programming
language, which is a little bit more frustrating,
in some sense, but can do more for you, I'm
thinking.
Which is kind of hard to imagine, right?
Yes.
Because programming isn't frustrating at all.
I haven't worked much with the Copilot or
something like that, but it seems like people
were also very into that when it came out.
It was like, oh, now we won't have to do these
simple things anymore, we can just ask Copilot
to write them for us.
And I mean, especially if you're working a
lot with tests that are fairly simple or,
at least, follow a similar structure to how
they usually would, then Copilot would be
more helpful.
I don't know, have you tried Copilot?
A little bit.
Not as much as some of the more recent things.
I think the thing is that everything with
AI now seems to...well, not everything, but
a lot of it right now just turns into this
thing of kinda like generate and test in a
way.
So you are given things, and then you have
to basically...it's really on your back to
go and figure out whether it is the right
thing or not, right?
So there's this degree, there's like this
sweet spot, I think, between, yay, I can generate
a lot of things.
It's kind of like at what scale do I generate
things to go and see that they are on target
for what I need to do?
I've used it to generate test cases.
I've just been kind of happy with what it's
produced in many cases.
I think if nothing else, you get, like, enhanced
ideation.
There are certain things that you might not
think of and you sort of become better yourself
in using it because it sort of, like, introduces
you to more possibilities, and that's nice.
That's pretty interesting.
I've also seen people using, I think it's
called procedural testing or something, more
and more where they generate a lot of sample
input or whatever, and then they verify against
that, I think.
Like fuzzing in a sense.
Something like that.
It's great for that sort of thing.
Yeah.
Cool things.
Guess we'll see where it goes, right?
And it's kind of funny, I'm supposing that
years from now, you or I can take a look back
at this and sort of say, "Ah, those guys,
they didn't quite know," you know.
It's hard to predict the future.
When Copilot took over the world tomorrow
or in a month.
Exactly, right.
So what's the date stamp here?
What's today's date?
Today's the 20th or 21st?
20th of March.
Date stamp for our opinions here
Talking about testing, your book talks a lot
about testing and it follows sort of this
Agile alliance sort of massive on TDD, stuff
like that sort of things.
So before we jump straight into testing, how
do you characterize a legacy code base?
How do you recognize if you're sitting with
a legacy code base?
Well, I don't think there's any hard line
with it.
I think legacy is a subjective judgment that
we make quite often based on the difficulty
and the hardness to understand something that
we're working with.
A traditional definition is it is code you
got from somebody else, right?
And at one point, I started throwing around
the idea.
It's like, well, maybe it's a code without
tests because the way that you work in code
without tests is qualitatively different from
when you have the test to kind of like serve
as, like, a safety net for what you're doing,
right?
It's really a subjective judgment.
I think the main thing I keep coming back
to more and more is to what degree you actually
understand what you're working on, right?
And if you have trouble understanding it and
understanding what its behavior is, then you're
really in trouble, right?
So everything is about getting that understanding
either through writing tests or reading all
those different things.
There's really a slippery slope on that.
Things can kind of fall apart.
That's an interesting take because I would
normally say that it's level of confidence
that you feel, and it's very close to what
you're describing.
Yes.
The difference, I think, from my perspective,
would be that I try hard not to have people
read code because humans read code very slowly.
And so the more of that I can skip, the better.
And good method naming, for instance, and,
like, having a good hierarchy of your code
is a way to sort of eliminate a lot of the
branches, hopefully eliminating a lot of the
code.
And then confidence comes from something else,
actually, than understanding it.
Like, do I trust that this works, even if
I haven't looked at it?
Fair enough.
I think in the book, I kind of like nodded
to that a bit because I was talking about
this thing of, like, to what degree you can
be surprised by what you find, or what the
system does, right?
And I think this is a general thing.
It's kind of like when we make systems, it's
kinda like there's the general thing that
it does and it's like it should be pretty
much unsurprising, right?
So if you find something completely counterintuitive
in the code, either behaviorally through a
test or just through reading things, you might
be thinking, "Well, what else is here," right?
It's like are things really to the point where
they're so irregular that I feel like I'm
lost or that I could be kind of tripped up
by anything that happens?
So, fair.
I think it is the quality of the code base
rather than our understanding.
So I agree.
Yes.
A test is one way to sort of gain some of
that confidence.
You also mentioned in the book, which I absolutely
love because I also spend a whole chapter
on that in my own book, is, like, leaning
on the compiler, as you call it.
Like, the compiler is so powerful.
Type systems have gotten so good, you can
gain a lot of confidence if you know how to
work with them correctly.
Yes, definitely.
And I think it's funny with that too because
I guess what I'm describing on the compiler,
the other thing that I talk about a bit is
deliberately introducing errors to find out
more about your code, right?
Which I basically see as another form of testing,
it's just never really quite seen that way.
But it's like it's another level for gaining
an understanding of what's going on in the
system behaviorally.
So, it's good stuff.
Yes.
Definitely.
And yours is the first formulation of TDD
I've seen that includes making it compile.
Because it seems to trip up a lot of people
that red could also mean a compile error in
the red-green-refactor.
No.
And it's funny with that too because I think
the very initial steps in TDD kind of happened
in dynamically type languages, but definitely,
Kent Beck and people around him were working
in Java at least at the time that he wrote
the first book on this.
But yeah, it's a piece of it, particularly
for compile languages.
What's kind of funny for me is quite often,
working with people on dynamically-typed languages.
I actually prefer dynamically-typed languages
in many circumstances, but it's also like
there's this thing of, like, you have way
more affordances with compiled languages,
different ways of interrogating the code base.
So it's a trade-off, you know?
I'm a little bit unsurprised that you work
well in dynamic languages because it seems
like you have a lot of discipline in writing,
testing, and stuff like that.
Whereas I find my huge challenge when I'm
working with dynamic languages is I don't
have a lot of testing discipline, I have a
lot of typing discipline.
And so, I'm very challenged in my confidence
level when I'm working in dynamic languages.
Well, can I tell you a little story about
this?
Because it's a little story I like to repeat.
Of course.
I think I put it in a blog a long time ago,
but back when I went to college, we had a
computer lab, and you'd sit in there, and
you'd have your terminal and you'd work on
things.
And we were programming in Pascal, right?
A very early language that way.
And I was sitting there and doing my assignment
and everything was going fine, but I looked
at the person next to me, and on her terminal,
I saw an erase subscript out of bounds exception
or something like that.
And I thought, oh my God, I've never seen
that before, right?
And I'd, like, gone through almost all of
this introductory course and stuff like that,
and then I thought about why I hadn't seen
that before.
And the thing is because I taught myself programming
in C from the beginning and then I went to
college and started learning Pascal, which
had a stronger type system.
And I just realized that essentially in C,
if you mess up, you're in real serious trouble
because it's hard to know when you messed
up and then basically just get these random
crazy errors because you're over memory and
stuff like that.
So I think there's this interesting thing
about starting with unforgiving tools to go
and sort of build your discipline in a way,
right?
Now, it's a terrible thing to advocate because
it's almost like the thing of going in and
saying, "Go out there and march in the woods
barefoot for 12 hours and you'll be a better
person," right?
But I think there is a piece to that as well
that the things which cause us to go and sort
of develop discipline sometimes are very useful
for us, at least very early in our careers.
So, just a thought.
I agree.
And, from my perspective, I started coding
in just straight Notepad, no Notepad++, no
fancy thing.
So, I put my parenthesis, the close one, when
I put the open one manually every time.
I've never had a mismatched parenthesis, right?
Because that wouldn't have worked back then.
I couldn't have sat there counting them.
It's fair.
But it's a thing.
I think those are things that you need to
go and sort of, like, I think, develop the
discipline at some point in your career, then
you can rely on the other things.
And it's like once you get that mindset of
complete attention and discipline, it's cool
because you're able to go and dip into it
again and dip into it on a case-by-case basis
when you need it.
So it's just another tool that you can have,
I think.
That's just my sense of it.
Just a side note, a side question, I've noticed
the same thing with debuggers.
I don't use them because back when I started
coding, I didn't have one.
And so, I do printf debugging always.
That's the only thing I do, and it always
works pretty much.
Like, do you have that same experience?
Do you use debuggers?
I did use debuggers before hearing about TDD
and learning it, then I got out of the habit
of it.
Occasionally, I would fall into printf, but,
for the most part, it is this thing of going
in and doing it with tests, for the most part.
The thing I always ask myself as kind of like
a design thing is, how easy is it for me to
go and figure out the thing I wanna understand?
And if it isn't very easy, well there's something
kind of messed up about the design.
I need to do something to go and at least
get things at the grain where I have a good
testing affordance to go and get the answers
I need.
So, things like that.
But then, I would expect that the code base
is at least as complex as the domain you're
modeling.
That's my general sort of rule of thumb.
So then, some things will be hard questions,
right?
I think they will be hard questions.
I think it's not like we have layers, like,
traditional layers in software development
as much anymore or that we advocate having
them, but it seems to me that there are different,
like, query layers within an application,
right?
So if you have a good domain model, in a sense,
then you can think in terms of the domain
and ask questions in terms of the domain.
You might be dealing with an area of four
or five classes, for instance, but you know
that you can ask the question at the appropriate
level for what you need.
Maybe you need to go and jump out to an end-to-end
thing to go and ask something which encompasses
more of the domain and more of what's going
on, but you get this ability to query at different
levels.
And the design of the system should support
that, right?
I mean, at its base level, if we have something
which is basically like doing accounting,
we're gonna have like fundamental computations.
They'll probably be held in maybe two or three
methods that we should be able to understand
well enough to go and query those in the test,
even if we're not asking the big questions
about how all the accounts interact and stuff
like that.
So it's this thing of like developing almost
language at all these different levels.
And it's not like they're specific layers,
it's just the language is present all through
the system.
I think that's the thing I would say.
I think I get that.
But it feels like some things are just inherently
very difficult to sort of tie lower out of
the system.
Some information is sort of embedded deep
within it, and it's depending on all these
sorts of other things.
And, at some point, the complexity is there
and you have to deal with it.
I just keep going back to that thing of, like,
that's a lesson for us.
It's when the complexity is there and it's
not easily approachable through an API of
some sort, then I'm okay, what's wrong here,
right?
Even if I can't fix it right away, I just
basically sort of always take that as a queue
for design.
One of my favorite talks I ever gave was,
like, in 2007 or 2009, I guess it was.
It was called "The Deep Synergy of Testability
and Good Design."
And I think about writing more about this
and this sort of thing, but it comes down
to that thing that almost everything we can
imagine is painful about testing is an indication
of some kind of a design problem.
If you address the design problem, then you
get a better design but also better testing
affordances.
To me, that's a beautiful thing because it
helps us get better at what we do.
You're able to listen to the system and learn
more about things through your experience
of it, you know?
I would have the same view of it just with
testing instead of...oh, sorry, with typing
instead of testing.
If I can't type this correctly, if I need
reflection, if I need CAST, stuff like that,
I haven't designed it correctly.
Totally.
I do like to just kind of sidestep the whole
thing off, like, is dynamic better or static
better?
I like 'em both for different reasons.
And I think that it just comes down to context,
what you're working on, and what you need.
That whole area is just kind of, like, it's
cool, I'm not gonna come down on one side
or another on that.
It's just what you need.
You'll also have an easier time on the internet
if you don't sort of piss off either camp,
so to speak.
Fair enough.
Well, it'd be fun to piss off both sides.
Yes.
Sure, sure.
It's fun.
How you get your fun, it's not recommended.
I've been through a lot of organizations,
and now that we're talking about testing,
I see a lot of them are struggling with testing.
Like, it isn't as prevalent in the industry
as I would sort of want it to be.
So if a person is in one of those organizations,
like, how do they get started?
How do we move out of this rut or whatever
we call it?
Well, I kind of like the silent approach a
little bit with this too.
But I think it's just because having a background
as a consultant, it's like if you go in and
you say to people, it's like, "Hey, you gotta
do things this way," it's like they're gonna
rebel, or they're gonna be kind of like, "Who
is this person who's telling me these things,"
and, "Sure.
I feel like what I was doing was good before,
so prove it to me," that kind of thing, right?
But I think an interesting thing is, like,
as an employee of an organization, you just
have to do your work and you have to do it
very well.
And the thing is, if you discover that these
things help you, and chances are they will
because that's what they do, these techniques,
then it isn't very long before people start
to recognize, wow, this person's having less
trouble doing things, what's going on?
The people that are interested in getting
better will gravitate and learn, right?
And it's very much like sometimes leading
is not a very overt act.
It's just by going and sort of doing something
different and getting people curious enough
to go and try things out.
The thing that I find problematic quite often
is the people that are like, "I find a better
way of doing things in the organization,"
they try to go and lead and say, "We have
to do it this way, we have to do it this way."
They just create enemies, right?
You have to keep your passion intact a little
bit and just sort of, like, if you enjoy what
you're doing and you're making things better,
quite often, it's gonna have some kind of
galvanizing effect inside the organization.
For a consultant, things are a little bit
different because quite often, you're on the
hook to go and change things, and then you
have to go and basically sort of, like, sway
people to some degree.
I think a little thing that I used to do with
this is trying to find the people who are
really curious about things and also the people
that other people would listen to and convince
them, then it becomes kind of viral, in a
sense.
And it's great when you find a person who's
in both of those camps.
You know, it kind of helps to some degree.
But I think the other thing to recognize too
is you're not gonna get 100% in many organizations,
right?
That's just the way things are.
People are different.
They have different views about how they're
gonna go and handle things, and that's just
life, you know?
So, I'm assuming, as a chief architect, you
have teams working sort of under you or?
No, I think the chief architect is kind of
like a bit of a moniker in a way.
I think I kind of chose that title within
the organization in Globant just because I
wanted to highlight to my friends outside
of the industry...or, excuse me, outside the
organization that architecture is important.
I think after many, many years of Agile, there's
been a thing of like architecture just kind
of emerges.
And I think that the kind of thinking that
we do about the macro level of systems is
extremely important and that kind of thing.
So I do work with different teams across the
organization and things like this, various
client accounts, and stuff like that.
But it's not a direct architect role in that
way.
I think it was more of a signaling thing on
my part in a way.
No, I understand.
So, your teams or the teams you work with,
how do they work?
Like, do they use TDD and stuff like that?
Yes, some do, some don't.
The thing is, it comes down to the type of
engagement that people are being called in
for.
It's funny because there are many different
scenarios for going in like intervening in
an organization and producing value.
So quite often, it's definitely on the pallet
of things that we do.
All right.
Well, and it's super interesting what you're
saying before that if you're in an organization
as a developer and you start using some tool
that helps you, right, and you're gonna keep
using it, and somebody else is gonna see it.
I've met people in the industry who had the
opposite experience with testing where I would
come in because they were on their way away
from testing.
I was like, "What?
Why are you going...like, why are you doing
that?"
It's because tests can sometimes hinder sort
of this refactoring thing, particularly if
they're very structurally dependent.
I think the interesting thing to me is, sometimes,
I think I feel much more comfortable than
many people putting some of the tests in the
parking lot for a minute and saying, "Okay,
I'm gonna go and change the system."
I'm going to go ahead and do a structural
refactoring, but I know the tests aren't gonna
cover it completely.
If I can develop confidence in another way
to do that refactoring, then I'll run the
tests and find out, well, they aren't working
against the methods they need to work against.
And I'll rewrite tests that will cover the
new structure that I have.
I think that we can overly valorize the tests
sometimes and think, "Oh my God, we can't
get rid of any tests at all."
Then you're in a situation where you're just
so scared that you can't change anything,
right?
And I guess the other thing you're probably
getting at is kind of like the level of testing
and how do you develop in a way where you
aren't sort of, like, preventing yourself
from refactoring, right?
That's an interesting question for these things.
And I've found that a lot of...
So a lot of the struggles that I meet with,
particularly testing, would be people who
aren't experienced with it when they come
out of school, and then they don't have time
to learn it.
And it's not an easy skill, especially because
when you talk about testing, most people focus
on the red-green-refactor or, like, sort of
the processes around it.
Whereas I find that the most painful thing
is learning about how to stub things correctly.
Because if you learn how to do test stubs,
then everything just becomes so much easier.
I think there's that.
I think the other thing that's wild for me
to go and kind of notice is I think that in
the way that TDD kind of spread across the
industry, it's like some people just basically
took it to be, like, okay, you write one unit
test harness for each class of your system
and you're good.
Right?
but then like BDD came along and it's kind
of like then you're covering a bigger area.
Particularly when you look at what Kent has
done with this and other people, like, I like
Ian Cooper's take on this as well.
You start out growing tests from a particular
point, and then you're refactoring outward.
You're decomposing things as they get bigger.
So your tests are over here, but they cover
a larger space.
I think that's the key message that needs
to get across to people rather than this one-to-one
mapping of test classes to production classes.
I think that's a way where people kind of
gets themselves...they kind of paint themselves
into a corner to some degree.
Especially when you start testing with, like,
private methods and stuff like that.
If you don't stay to the public interface,
then, like, you are just in for a headache
when you want to restructure that code.
What's wild about this too is that essentially
it's like, I think Martin Fowler talked about
this years ago.
It's like we don't have a good thing now to
go and mark things as published rather than
public, right?
So public is a code-level thing at the class
level.
A method can be public or not, but you need
something which is kind of, like, this is
an interface that we see from the outside
world but not necessarily within this particular
area and unit.
Of course, it goes and kind of, like, differs
across programming languages.
But, you know, that kind of separation is
something that's not built into languages.
So, it's not overt and we have to go and make
our sense of these right here are the public
methods that we are holding in variance on
as opposed to these other ones, right?
So, pretty tough.
I remember having trouble also when I wanted
to write testing code that tested, like, not
quite public to the, like, API, but public
methods.
And then the testing classes would've to be
in the same package because otherwise, they
weren't visible.
But I didn't wanna compile them in the same
unit, right, because I didn't want to ship
my test code.
So it was just a whole...
Trying to design around that took, like, days
to figure out the beautiful, sort of...
I tend to try to convince people to go and
ship their test code in with that just because,
well, particularly, I guess, for me, I get
called in to look at these really horrible
situations.
You don't have many other options in terms
of actually sort of easing the entry into
going in and starting to get control of the
code base short of actually going in and shipping
them in parallel that way.
There are some valid reasons not to do that,
but I think it's still something where if
you can have that discussion and move to doing
that, sometimes that kind of eases the transition
into going and building an easier way of working
with a legacy code base.
It certainly changes sort of the whole view
on I want to ship the thing that I've tested,
but I don't want the tests in the thing that
I'm gonna ship.
So it's sort of like the constant struggle.
Sometimes, that's kind of like a sense of...it's
like an aesthetic thing.
It's kind of like, oh, well these things are
different.
They shouldn't be in the same place.
Right?
I don’t know if I mentioned this in the
book, but I do mention it in training quite
often.
I think it was Voltaire who had the saying,
like, when you translate French to English,
best is the enemy of good, in a way, right?
So you're sitting there and you're working
with somebody and it's kind of like they're
saying, "Wow, you're breaking dependencies
using this technique and it makes the code
look ugly."
And you have to kind of like, "Have you looked
at the code," right?
I mean, it is kind of ugly, right?
That kind of thing.
Some of the things that you do to go start
to break dependencies and get tests in place
are going to violate some preconceptions you
might have about good design, but they are
there to facilitate doing the refactoring
to make the design better.
So, it's cracking the eggs to make the omelet
a little bit.
I mean, when you say that, we have to talk
about encapsulation.
Yes.
You also mentioned in the book that you don't
mind breaking encapsulation if it makes testing
easier.
Well, the thing is that when you say it that
way, and I'm not sure exactly how I said it,
but that simplification is good, but it's
like...it's not saying, "Hey, I'm a fan of
breaking encapsulation, but selectively in
particular places to go and give you the affordance
to go and test things," right?
And you do it reluctantly, but you're doing
it in such a way that when you're encapsulating,
you should be thinking about what it is you
want to encapsulate, right?
So to go and break encapsulation at the edge
of a new sphere that you want to go and hold
as your place of encapsulation is okay because
you're creating a new boundary around something
of value.
So it's a matter of finding the things of
value that are there and saying, "Where do
I want to basically sort of like, be outside
of that to test?"
And you might have to break at those edges
to go and start to form this thing, form this
layer around the value that you're trying
to go and sort of preserve through tests.
I tend to think rather visually, so of course,
I'm using my hands doing this kind of thing.
But when you think about it, a lot of systems,
it's like they're broken down in these pieces
in particular ways, in particular shapes.
It's like sometimes you're looking at 'em
and you're like, well, these three things
can be part of a bigger thing.
So it's up to me to go and build that bigger
thing around those things, right?
And other times, you have a thing which has
several responsibilities, and when you break
it apart and then you have a different task,
which is gonna be, how do I go and support
this from the outside of the test to be able
to break it apart, right?
If I'm working with something that's, like,
legacy code, I would sort of attempt to limit
the tendency of local changes to have global
effects, right?
That's sort of what I'm scared of.
That's the issue with legacy code is that
the effects propagate in a non-local way.
Yes.
And humans can't seem to get that into their
heads.
We are used to local, local.
So, often, I would try to encapsulate things
harder because that helps to sort of limit
all of these effects, right?
They can't escape if you encapsulate them
in a very hardcore way, so to speak.
And I noticed that you mentioned also the
three ways that effects can propagate.
And it's like exposing data, obviously, constructors
and passing arguments or mutating it directly.
Yes.
So then, my approach would be or my intuition
would be to sort of limit the effect of the
things.
But then, you're saying that you would have
the test to sort of alert you, at least, if
something changes non-locally, right?
That's what the test should be there to do.
Well, I always look at the test as basically,
a way of understanding the thing, right?
If the thing changes in a way that you didn't
anticipate, then basically, the test is going
to go and break.
So for me, it's the work leading up to writing
the test is about going and building the isolation
so that the effects don't propagate necessarily,
right?
Or at least you have a barrier to go and make
sure that they're on propagate, right?
If you are accessing a singleton inside of
a class, it's like, yeah, I wanna find a way
to go and inject that value through the constructor
rather than basically go and mutate the singleton
directly within the class, right?
You slowly go and start to build these firewalls
against effects propagating when you're doing
this.
But a lot of these tend to be bigger issues
in the architecture.
So it's kind of like it takes a while to go
and start to root those things out, and you
have to go and sort of assess the value of
doing that when you have the test there to
go and tell you about whether these side effects
occur in a bad way.
I think it's a very problematic thing because
one of the things in legacy code that's tough
is that code grows in a particular way.
And it's like if you have like lots of global
assets all across the system, you're not gonna
be able to fix that in your lifetime necessarily,
right?
But you should be able to go and at least
build in the sensing through tests to go and
understand where the trip wires are.
If something goes wrong, you wanna know about
it immediately, right?
So the code is less understandable by reading
it, but then, the tests can go and give you
the feedback that you can't get by reading
it because things have gotten gummed up in
a particularly bad way.
So, there is this question of legacy code
bases about how far is reasonable to go in
terms of your plans for how good it's gonna
go and get.
What is reasonable?
How much time should you invest in fixing
legacy code or avoiding it?
Well, here's the thing that I think is a very,
very critical thing.
You know about, like, the 80/20 rule, right?
It's like 80% of the work happens in the last
20% of the project and all these different
things.
It's part of something called the Pareto Principle,
right?
And there are a lot of natural systems that
are this way where essentially, like 20% of
the code has a higher value than the other
80%, for instance, stuff like that.
If you do a distribution of method sizes in
a project, you'll find that a lot of the methods
tend to be small, but then you have maybe
20% that tend to be outsized in size and stuff,
right?
So it's a mathematical thing that happens
as a side effect of incremental growth in
systems, or incremental value seeking.
The thing I'm always looking at with a system
is like, okay, well what are the high-value
areas, right?
And my notion of value is a little bit generalized.
It's not just what the business thinks is
important, but it's also, like, what are you
changing frequently right now, for instance?
What are the things that...
What are the more bug-prone areas?
So it's not valued as much as kind of like
the highly active areas of the system, the
areas where basically, you have some criticality,
right?
You look at those and you're kind of like,
okay, what can I do to go and bring these
points into stability?
And the interesting thing is that the 80/20
rule applies to commits also, right?
There are many, many files in your system
that you'll probably never change again, right,
and there are others where basically, you
have clusters of changes.
And that's gonna change over time in the system,
but if you're aware of those dynamics, then
you know where to concentrate your effort.
I think that the thing that's kind of important
with this is that you can look at a particular
area and recognize it's a very stable area
of code.
It's kind of messed up in the way it's structured
and stuff like that, but you're not gonna
get a return benefit for investing in that
beyond a certain point.
It's like you wanna stabilize it, understand
what's possible within that particular area
of code, but you don't wanna kinda like bolster
it up in a way that makes it a place which
is extremely easy to go and work in because
you're not gonna get the value back from this.
So I think having a very comprehensive conversation
in the team and within the organization about
where these hotspots are and where these value
centers are within the system, and understanding
what you're gonna concentrate on is very important.
A lot of this is outlined by Eric Evans, like
in domain-driven design.
You have like the notion of down to context
and these different things.
He mentions with like anti-corruption layer
and all these different patterns that you're
really...
It's really about going in and finding these
high-value areas and sort of like working
on that.
I think that's the thing.
It's not an easy thing necessarily, but I
think the thing we need to recognize is that
value is not uniformly distributed across
systems.
It simply isn't, and we should behave differently
in different areas of the system because of
that.
I know that hotspot detection is a major part
of the code quality tool CodeScene.
And do you use tools like that?
Well, I've used it a bit.
I'm actually on the advisory board of CodeScene,
right?
So it's, yeah, I know Adam Thornhill from
way back when he wrote his first book.
Great guy.
I like that because I think the interesting
thing I remember seeing years ago is kind
of like there's a lot of information in our
repositories that we just don't think about.
And he just sort of launched in there and
started going and digging and developing tooling
around that sort of thing.
So I think that's extremely valuable.
I think it's one of those things where you
can either work on things without much awareness
or you can build awareness.
And a lot of this tooling goes and gives you
the ability to go and find hotspots.
We also do things like planning, like, oh,
if a person's gonna leave, whether it has
an impact on to the code base, and various
things like that that are good for the sustainability
of systems.
It's like SonarQube is good too.
There's lots of tooling out there that basically
supports this kind of an effort, and that's
good.
How should an organization sort of tackle,
like, this problem?
What should they start...
Like, how much time should they invest?
Like, what policies should they put in place
to get some of their legacy code down?
Yeah, that's an interesting thing.
I think it comes down to that kind of value
analysis I was talking about a little bit
earlier, right, and just sort of figuring
it out.
There are things like application portfolio
analysis and all these different things that
people tend to do, but you need to figure
out what's critical.
The term I use quite often is rules of engagement.
If you figure out where the very critical
areas of the system are, you might say, well
people can't just come and commit against
these things.
You need pull requests with particular people,
then you need to go and review them, and you
do this to go and sort of like sort of build
up stability in these particular areas.
In other areas, it might be just, well, anybody
can go and sort of commit against this and
that's okay because it's low criticality.
But getting people to see that value across
the organization is the first step, that kind
of thing.
The secondary thing is figuring out whether
you're organized in a way to go and do these
things well, right?
A lot of times, historical reasons lead us
to go in having different fault lines in organizations.
We're separated into different teams that
end up producing strange Conway's Law effects
that are kind of like there.
I am a fan of the Team Topologies' work.
I think it's really kind of good.
I think if I had any little criticism at all,
it's kind of like it arrives at a very normative...it
arrives at a very, like, this is the way you
should organize.
And that's good because it does seem to cover
a lot.
But I always tend to want people to go and
think about what are the forces that lead
you into trouble, and how can you actually
sort of like move them in a way where basically,
the problem disappears in some sense.
So I think those are kind of like macro-level
things.
And beyond that, it's like building a culture
of refactoring.
I think to the degree that basically, the
refactorings are talked about in retros that
people work on refactorings together that
people can actually sort of speak up when
they think something's bad, right?
I think is the important thing.
It just really comes down to basically, raising
awareness within teams.
I think also kind of like connecting with
the...
Having the developers connect their pain with
a solution, right?
It's always been troubling to me to find developers
that are doing very painful things.
They don't think about it as pain, they think
about it as normal, right?
And then you can show them how they can make
their environment look better and then they're
kind of like, "Oh wow, I have something I
can do here," which is kind of powerful.
I know this is a long answer, but the whole
80/20 thing is so valuable there, right?
Because essentially, it's like if you make
a little area of the system better and you're
there because you were called in to fix something
if that's an area where you get lots and lots
of change, you're going to make things a little
bit better and then the next person's gonna
get that benefit.
The areas where you do this that are high
criticality are gonna get a lot of change,
and then the things that you do to make things
better are gonna give you an almost immediate
return on these things.
Maybe other areas of the system are just never
hit in the sense that you never have to go
and add testing because nobody’s ever changing
them.
But it's not like you look at a 10,000 file
code base and say, "Oh my God, we're doomed
because we'll never get tests for that 10,000
file."
So, there's a certain nugget of the system
that basically, your set of nuggets of the
system that once you start making a headway,
then you start feeling the benefits.
And that's a very useful thing to get across.
You have this thing in the book, when you
have to make a change of some very complex
part of this system, people will sit down
and try to understand it because it feels
suspiciously like work, I think, you say in
the book, which I thought was a very humorous
way of saying it.
I sort of try to hack into that and give them
something else that is valuable, like breaking
up methods.
And it's easy also, they can do it without
their brain, right?
Whenever your eyes glass over, have people
do something sort of meaningful with that
time because they can't tackle problems if
they're cognitively exhausted, so to speak.
Like, have them do something with their hands
instead.
Totally.
Just one little plug for something else.
There's a small thing I mentioned in the book
that I wish I'd written about more.
Every time I talk to people, I sort of offered
them as a possibility in a scratch refactoring,
which is kind of like, take the code, throw
it into a file, like just a straight text
file as opposed to like your program language
file so you don't have all the markup about
possible errors and stuff like that.
And just start renaming things and moving
things around.
Don't worry about breaking things because
you're never gonna check it in.
That is so counter to our intuition as developers
because we're always so cautious about how
we change things.
But when you know you're not gonna check in
things just by going in and being kind of
hands-on, you start to go gain much more insight
into the thing that you're working on.
Even if you can't actually sort of like fix
things right away, at least you get a sense
of where the danger zones are and stuff like
that.
I love the scratch refactoring thing also.
I noted it in my notes because it's very similar
to what I would just call all of the refactorings
that I do basically.
Except I also check it in and I take smaller
steps and a little bit of that extra things.
But it's very much the thing that if you try
to understand and if you start with this if
you think about it too big, you won't go anywhere
with it.
It'll just be stuck.
Sort of paralyzed by the opportunity.
So that's getting past fears, taking the first
step.
That's the way it goes.
And trying something out and like just, yeah,
doing it.
As you also say, start writing like a single
test or something.
If you have something like you can start improving
the quality fairly quickly, just a little
bit.
To me writing a test is asking a question
of the code base.
And if you're curious about stuff, then you
should be, because you're working on it, writing
those tests.
I think we don't have too much more time.
Is there something you wanna sort of plug
here before we end it up?
Not necessarily.
I think the thing is it seems like the AI
stuff is gonna change things a lot in the
short term and that's maybe we look back at
us and say, oh, well we thought it was, but
it didn't.
But I think the bet right now is that it's
gonna change a bunch of different things.
The key thing is that when you're working
in legacy systems you get a real opportunity
to learn more about how design works in a
way.
And so, something is exciting about doing
that, you get to learn more about design.
I think that a lot of the things that we basically
know about design are things that are gonna
be still, very important as we move forward
in the industry.
It's hard for me to imagine a situation where
for all development we get to the point where
we don't have to think about cohesion and
coupling and all these different things.
We might have to think about them at a different
level, but so much of learning about these
things is immersing yourself in it and legacy
code is a place to learn.
And that's the way I kind of look at it.
Spot on.
I totally agree.
Cool.
Thank you very much, Michael, for sitting
down with me.
It's been super fun.
Yeah, it has.
It's fun.
Thanks for your interview.
