In July 2025, Oliver Bloom, the CEO of
Porsche, sends an internal message to
all his teams. Inside, a
sentence that will send everyone into a panic
. Our business model is no
longer working. No, we are going through a
complicated period, no, the market is a
bit volatile at the moment. No, it doesn't
work anymore. Coming from Porsche, this
statement is almost surreal. We are talking about
a company that was built
on German precision,
financial stability and a certain
assumed technological arrogance that produced
icons like the 918 Spider or the 911
Carrera RS. icons that have defined and
marked entire generations of
passionate drivers. Except that
today, well, the numbers
tell a story of brutal decline.
In the third quarter of 2024, Porsche
recorded a profit of 4 billion
euros. The following year, in 2025, the
profit falls to 40 million euros,
a collapse of 99%. The blame lies with
Porsche's obsession with becoming
something its customers were
n't willing to buy.
To understand the magnitude of the
current fall, one must first
realize how much of a financial fortress Porsche had become over
the years
. It all started in 1948 with
the Porsche 356.
Ferry Porsche had a simple vision,
a light, streamlined and sporty car,
a philosophy that gave birth to
the 911 in 1963. With its headlights and
flowing roofline, it became
the most recognizable silhouette in
automotive history. It is one of the
rare cars whose mere presence is enough to
become the brand. At that time,
Porsche wasn't selling cars, it was selling
excellence. And yet, it wasn't enough
. In 1993,
the company nearly went bankrupt with
only 14,000 units sold. The
rescue came from a gamble that had
scandalized the purists of the time:
the move to SUVs with the Cayen in
2002. The idea was simple but brilliant.
Use mass-market models like the
Cayen and then the Macan to generate the
liquidity needed for the development
of sports cars. It worked very well,
increasing sales from
14,000 to 300,000 vehicles sold per year.
This strategy, coupled with sales
of very expensive personalization options
, but also the fact of belonging to and
benefiting from the Volkswagen group,
allowed Porsche to post figures
that made the competition drool for
years. with an
operating margin of around 18%
per year on average with an average profit
per sale of €18,000, three times
more than most
European premium manufacturers, but not for much
longer.
It is the late 2010s and the
automotive world is undergoing a major transformation
with regulations, CO2 and especially
electric vehicles. And it is in this context that the
brand is preparing to launch its biggest
gamble since the Cayen, the Tayan. For
Oliver Bloom, it's not just a
car but a revolution towards the
new golden age of the company. And at
first, it will work. The marketing is
perfect. And the slogan "sol electrified,"
which means electrified blade, promises a
Porsche that is electric, not an
electric vehicle that is
sporty. From 0 to 100 in less than 2.8
seconds and it recharges to 80% in less
than 20 minutes. The success was immediate.
In 2020 Porsche sold 20,000 TANs and in
2023 this figure climbed to 40,000. In terms
of growth and sales volume, the
TCAN was approaching the figures of the
legendary 911. At that time, Oliver
Bloom was seen as a prophet and he
arrived with a 100 billion plan
worthy of Silicon Valley. By 2025,
50% of Porsche sales must be
electric. By 2030, this figure should
rise to 80% with a delivery of
400,000 vehicles per year and a
margin rate of around 15 to 17%. There are two
reasons behind this ambitious plan.
First, Tesla. Between 2019 and 2022,
Tesla's profits increased from $20
million to $13 billion. So
Porsche obviously wants its piece of the
pie. And the second reason is the pressure
from the Volkswagen group. After the
Dieselgates scandal, the group is seeking to
redeem itself and is launching road map I by
injecting tens of billions into
electric vehicles. And to finance all of this,
you obviously need a lot of money. The
group therefore decided to put Porsche
on the stock exchange in 2022 at a valuation of
78 billion euros and it was a huge success.
The stock was introduced at €80 and in
just 6 months it will rise to over
€120 thanks to the growing sales of
the TCAN and the conviction of
investors that Porsche can really
stand up to Tesla. At that point,
everyone wants their piece of the pie, and whether it's
to buy Porsche, Tesla, or
another car manufacturer,
investors need a
reliable platform. That's why
I use Freedom 24, the partner of
this video. The broker is regulated in
Europe and maintains a complete separation of
client assets from those of
the company. Each stock or ETF
you buy is held in real form and not
as a derivative. and the
broker gives you full access to the
US and European markets, including
major ETFs replicating the
SP500 index. If you want to start
investing seriously, he's launching a
pretty incredible offer this year.
Between March 1 and August 31, 2026,
all new clients residing in
France benefit from a
promotional rate of 0% commission on
shares and ETFs. This is valid on
the US and European markets for
12 months or up to your first 240
orders. The offer is for a limited
time only. So if you want to take advantage of
this zero commission rate for your
next investments like me, well,
I'll put the link in the
description. Thanks to Freedom 24 for
supporting the channel. But let's get back to
Stuttgart because suddenly everything is going to
collapse.
By 2024, the electric experiment turns
sour. TCAN deliveries
collapse by 49%. Porsche itself says that
only 20,836 cars were
delivered during the year. This is not a
simple slowdown, but something
much more serious. In fact,
what struck Porsche at that
precise moment was the difference between the
curiosity of early adopters versus
the massive market adoption. It
simply took 2-3 years for
critical problems to appear.
First, the bugs, the things that are just unacceptable in a
car costing 150,000 bucks
. Screens that
turn off, door handles that
refuse to come out, reversing cameras
that do whatever they want, and
features that only work half the time
. And then you think, "Okay,
it's software, it can be patched," except
no, because the real hell starts
when you go to the garage. The car
is simply too complex and
it's a veritable computer on R. The
local mechanics don't know how to
repair it. They have to wait for
directives from Germany and parts that
take months to arrive. The result is
cars that remain
immobilized for months. The internet
is full of testimonials from customers who
have had these experiences again and
again. But it's even worse. The cost
of out-of-warranty repairs has become
absurd. A simple inspection of the
battery casing can cost €5500.
And if the battery needs to be replaced, the
bill can climb to €50,000.
That's the price of a new Tesla or a
BMW 3 series just for one part.
Speaking of batteries, in 2024, a
whistleblower revealed that 60% of
rod sizes delivered had
battery problems that could lead to
fire risks. Even more serious, more than
27,000 models had to be recalled due to
short-circuit risks, with a
humiliating instruction for
owners not charging more than
80%. And all these problems contribute
to another problem in the form of a
vicious circle, which is the
secondary market. Because in the luxury
car market, resale value
is really a snail's pace. If buyers
start thinking that a
used can size is a risk, then the
price is going to get hammered. And when the
price gets slashed, well, new products
suffer too.
But what is really
killing Porsche is happening at the other two
ends of the world. For decades,
China was Porsche's bank, an
Eldorado where the growing middle class
snapped up Cayennes
and Panameras as symbols of
absolute success. But in 2025, everything will
go to hell. That year,
Porsche deliveries in China fell
by 26%. with terrible quarters
exceeding 40% decline. Porsche,
which used to sell more than 90,000 cars a
year in China, has barely
reached 42,000 units. The cause is
simple. The arrival of what are called
phun cars, cars like the
Xiaomi SU7 or the ZIC beat the Tayan
on almost all
technological points. A software ecosystem as
smooth as an iPhone,
perfect home automation integration and
supercar performance. Let me remind you, we are talking about
cars that cost two to three times
less with a perceived quality and
level of software that gives
the impression of an equally
high-end product. Under these conditions,
the German badge is no longer sufficient
to justify the price difference.
But to this will be added another problem,
which is the explosion of prices.
Unlike BMW or Mercedes, Porsche
has no factories in the United States. Every
car sold on American soil is
imported from Europe. With the return of
trade tensions and
Trump's tariffs increasing from 2.5% to 15%
or even 25%, Borche had to absorb an
estimated cost of $813 million in
2025 alone. At the same time, the brand
is engaged in a
massive €3.1 billion investment plan
for its future
electric models. This is what is called a
scissors effect where Porsche spends
billions developing
electric cars that China no longer wants and
that the United States heavily taxes. And that brings us
to the quote
from Oliver Bloom with which we opened
this video, which is that our business
model no longer works. His plan
failed and he ended up describing his
goal of 80% electric by 2030 as
unrealistic. The group has just
announced a recalibration with a
massive return to internal combustion and
hybrid engines. It will inject billions
to extend the life of these
internal combustion engines in order to meet
environmental standards by 2035. And
as for the Macan and Cayen, while they were supposed to
become 100% electric, my
Porsche has just announced
hybrid versions so as not to lose customers
who refuse the charging station.
Meanwhile, shareholders are
not happy and Porsche stock, apart from
the initial hype, has only fallen over the last
3 years. Its share price is
currently half of its value at the
time of the initial public offering. And in my opinion
, it was a shipwreck that was narrowly avoided
. In the short term,
the company will continue to suffer,
but it remains to be seen in the long term
how Porsche will manage to lower
the bar if it ever does. What
is certain is that electric vehicles pose
many problems for
traditional manufacturers. I prepared a video
dedicated to Mercedes where I recount the incident
where the company outright lied in order to
sell its cars before
regretting it. Ah, but that's the thumbnail
that's displayed on the screen. Click on it,
you won't regret it. In the same
way that you will not regret
creating an account on Freedom 24 with the
link in the description to benefit
from 0% commission for 1 year on
shares and ETFs for certain
countries including France. Okay, bye
