Another day, another account to audit.
And in this short video, I'm going to go
together with you over a potential
client account, a real account with a
real data, covering all the issues that
I have identified through the account
audit. And then, I think you can learn a
lot from it and apply
uh these things to your account as well.
Try to compare. Maybe you'll find
something that prevents your account
from getting great results. And this is
the main purpose of this video. So,
enough with the chat. Let's jump right
into it. So, first things first, if you
have ever watched any of my videos, you
know that the first thing we'd like to
start is conversion tracking. We need to
make sure that the conversions, the
sales, or the goal that we want to track
from the advertising is properly
configured. We need to go left to the
goal section.
In the conversion section, click on
summary.
Now, I'm going to scroll down and click
here on [snorts] view all conversion
actions.
And now we can see all the conversions
that are configured in this account.
Just a quick note that we have
implemented already a few of the fixes
within the accounts. First of all, we
changed the conversion action purchase
to be the only conversion considered as
primary.
The primary conversion means that Google
Ads will optimize only towards this
goal. And you should have only one
conversion that is the most important
for you configured as primary.
Otherwise, if it's like going to be
contact us set up as primary together
with purchase, Google will look at these
conversions having like the same level
of importance, which is not. So, we want
only one
conversion action to be configured as
primary, and the rest you can put as a
secondary conversions, and then you can
use them as kind of like additional
layer when analyzing the data and
optimizing the account, but
this is very important that you will
have only one primary conversion. That's
one thing. Second thing in terms of
click-through conversion window, you
should put it as long as possible,
especially if you are in the industry
when it takes for a customer a
relatively long time to make the
purchase. So, in this example, the
jewelry industry, sometimes it can take
weeks, uh months for a for a customer to
make the purchase. And that is why you
want the conversion window to be as long
as possible. When the time comes and he
makes the purchase, the platform can
actually attribute the conversion. It
can identify the first time it click on
the ad and then connect the dots and
attribute the purchase to that specific
campaign, which is very crucial in terms
of uh optimization. Now, let's go to
diagnostics tab. And here you can see a
common issues with your conversions.
Maybe there's something that is not
configured properly. In the enhanced
conversion section, you can see that
there are three items that need
attention. So, let's click on see
details.
And here in the details, we can see that
we have issues with enhanced conversion
data. For example, enhanced conversions
addresses are missing. What are enhanced
conversions?
These are conversions that are passing
additional data to Google Ads, not just
the event itself. For example, when the
user proceeded to the checkout and or
made purchase. But on top of that, it
adds additional
parameters that we can get from the user
while he makes the purchase. For
example, his
name, a phone number, email address. And
this is very useful for Google Ads
because it allows Google Ads to identify
that user in more easy way, and then it
can try to bring similar audience. So,
it trains the algorithm better. Ideally,
you always want to have enhanced
conversion active and also configured
properly, which is in this case, you can
see there are issues that needs
basically fixing. So, you should
definitely
uh make sure that you don't have any
issues in your diagnostics tab. Very
important. Now, from the conversions,
let's go to product feed. Let's go to
campaign.
And here we scroll down to products and
click on products again.
And what I have identified that like
when you have e-commerce store,
most likely you will have some kind of
issues with your product feed. And
unfortunately, a lot of advertisers
neglect this thing. They simply ignore
the issues that are in the product feed.
They even ignore the Google Merchant
Center account, which is the primary
source that can
help you out improve your product feed
and identify some issues. So, in this
case, if you're looking at the issue
tab, you can see that there's like a
product with missing product image.
Let's sort it out.
Uh invalid price, out of stock. I also
find previously like attribution issues.
It doesn't pass the proper attribution.
Let's look at the price. There's another
issue that I found here regarding the
currency. There's like some items in one
currency, there are some items in
another currency. You see here, for
example.
Like we have this currency, which
I have no idea what kind of currency
that one is. So, you can write it in the
comments if you know which one this is,
but
let's sort it out by low price. You can
see it it changes. Like we have
different types. Like this is I know uh
Swedish krona.
Uh then we have euros. Like what what's
going on with the with the pricing? Like
the pricing should be
uh the same
for for I mean, in terms of the
currency. So, there's some kind of an uh
issue there, definitely, that needs
fixing. The these things, they they
prevent your ads from achieving optimal
performance. If you have e-commerce
store, like product feed is probably the
second priority after the conversion
tracking.
So, that's one thing. Let's go to
product diagnostics here, and you can
see the summary. We have out of, let's
say, 13,000 products, we have 3,000
products that have issues, and out of
which 2,000 are not eligible. This means
that they won't appear in your ads
because of these issues. And if you we
scroll down here, you can see exactly
what kind of issues. They're missing
image, missing Korean business
registration number, even though this
this inventory, the store is located in
Australia. So, there's some kind of an
issue in the settings. Uh missing
inventory data, invalid sale price. So,
you can see all the issues. And if you
click on the products, you can see
exactly what products are having this
issue. And these are the attributes I
was mentioning previously, like missing
color,
uh age group, gender, things like that.
So, basically, not all inventory is
being served. That's a big issue. And
also, on top of that, if you have more
than 1, 2% of your total inventory
disapproved, which in this case, you can
see that there's more than that, like
almost 15% of the inventory is not being
served, then you're actually risking
your Merchant Center account getting
suspended, which is a big issue. It can
stop completely your advertising from uh
working. So, you should definitely
definitely address that and not
advertise. Now, let's go to locations.
So, in the campaign section targeting,
we can go to location targeting.
And here I can click on Australia.
Click on, let's say, provinces just to
show you the
the idea, not provinces. Um let's go
with
regions. Yeah. In the
location report, if you filter it down
by region,
you can see that some of the regions
have 0.3 to 0.4 conversion rate, while
others have like one
Let's sort it out by conversion volume.
So, you can see there's a 3% conversion
rate, and there is
0. Let's say, 0.5 conversion rate. And
the 0.5 gets more clicks. So, you're
spending more money
on the inventory that brings you much
less results. And this probably because
the conversion tracking is not working
properly, and it the smart bidding is
not configured well.
Uh but even with the manual check, you
can simply double down on what's working
the best, which is this um this area,
and
this one, maybe. Like we can actually
download this data, export it as CSV,
put it in some AI tool like Claude or
ChatGPT to analyze it
on more accurate level. And then, based
on that, make a decision what kind of
area do we want to target? Because the
cost,
the advertising spending here is not
that high. This means you cannot spread
it the budget broad and target the whole
Australia. You need to be very precise.
Otherwise, you're just losing money,
like just in this case,
uh these 2,000 Australian dollars could
have gone to this campaign or yeah, this
campaign, and sorry, this location, and
it could have brought five times more
sales. That's another thing that I found
out. And last but not least is the
policy manager. Let's go to tools,
troubleshooting, and click on policy
manager. And you can see here that there
are some ads that are disapproved. That
means that they don't serve. They don't
show in the search results. They're not
getting impressions. And furthermore,
policy violations can damage your
account reputation, affect your
performance. You should try to avoid it,
and don't have any policy violations in
your account. And if you have them, you
should either try to resolve them, try
to edit the ad, maybe try to appeal even
though it most of the cases doesn't work
well, or simply remove the ad and create
something new instead of it. Because now
with all these disapproved things,
it
it simply messes up the the account
performance. If we click on view ads and
we're going to more details, we can
actually see what's causing it, but
overall, you can see here there's more
than one policy violation,
and that's that's a big no-no. Like you
try to you need to avoid it at all
costs. And if you have policy violation,
you should resolve it immediately.
This sums up the audit, the most
important things that I found. I mean, I
can dig here uh more, spend more hours,
and find a bunch of other things to
improve, but these things that I
mentioned in this video, they're so
common. They're more common than you
think. Every second account that I get,
it's always policy violations. It's
always the same issues with conversion
tracking and product feed. That is why I
keep saying, I don't know if people
listen to me, but I keep saying in the
videos that these are the three things
you should
fix immediately, and it will improve
your account performance. You you will
see the results right away.
So, that sums up this video. I hope this
was valuable and useful for you. Thank
you for watching. Make sure to like and
subscribe for more useful content about
Google Ads. And as always, I'll see you
in the next one.
