The fundamentals of investing hasn't
changed at all. Buying great things or
great businesses, holding for long
periods of time, earning cash returns.
What's changed is the environment around
it. The whole backbone of the world is
changing. Behind your phone or your
computer, you can have this podcast on
your cell phone and go for a run in the
morning. How that gets delivered to you
is data center storing it, fiber
delivering it to you, going to a tower
and bringing it down to your phone
wireless. And all of that needs enormous
amounts of infrastructure. And all of
that is built by private
enterprise. 50% of the backbone of what
we own today did not exist as an asset
class for investment 20 years ago. Well,
you have over a trillion dollars in
management now.
It sounds like a lot of money. It is a
lot of money. It's a trillion dollars,
but it's not that much when you do what
we
[Music]
do. Welcome to the Knowledge Project.
I'm your host, Shane Parish. In a world
where knowledge is power, this podcast
is your toolkit for mastering the best
of what other people have already
figured out.
Most investors see markets as a race to
outperform every quarter. Our guest
today, however, sees them as a marathon
measured in decades. As CEO of
Brookfield Asset Management, he's
quietly spent decades building a
trillion dollar business, investing
patiently in the invisible machinery of
the global economy. While others chase
short-term returns, Flat positioned
Brookfield to capitalize on massive
global shifts from digitalization and
lowcarbon energy to a reshaped global
supply chain years before they appeared
on anyone else's radar. In this rare
public conversation, it's only the
second podcast he's ever done. Flat
reveals not just what he invests in, but
how he thinks. From spotting trends
early to structuring deals for
resilience across economic cycles to
placing big bold bets that compound
steadily over time, he offers a
masterclass in patient, disciplined
investing. Whether you're allocating
capital, building a business, or simply
navigating uncertainty, you'll learn how
one of today's most influential but
private investors sees around economic
corners and why his ability to ignore
short-term noise might be his greatest
competitive advantage of all. It's time
to listen and learn.
I want to start with how investing has
changed over the past 23 years, I think,
since you've been CEO. Uh, look, on the
first level, I'd say it hasn't changed
at all. What investing is about is to
buying great things or great businesses,
holding for long periods of time,
earning cash returns, and uh that hasn't
changed at all. So the fundamentals of
investing are exactly the way they were
before. What's changed is the um
environment around it. Uh and I mention
a couple things. First one is um many uh
businesses are publicly traded and the
indexing of um and passive investing has
changed the publicly traded market for
investments. It's very different than
the actual investments. the investments
are still the same and what we do is
still the same. How they trade in the
market and whether they're uh included
in indexes has changed how they trade in
the public markets. So I think that um
is pro probably the fundamental biggest
thing. The the second thing and and this
is
um I I'd say maybe the most simple way
to say it is 50% of the things that we
invest in
today did not exist as an investment
asset
class for investors like us 20 years ago
50%. And and we invest in the backbone
of the global economy. Like these are
simple things. We deliver your water in
the morning. We sold the road you drive
on in the afternoon. We deliver your
power uh to your house. We um the data
center that powers your phone. Um we own
um those are all really backbone things.
So what we do is backbone. This is not
innovative venture capital that we're
doing. But 50% of the backbone of what
we own today did not exist as an asset
class for investment 20 years ago. What
percentage of that would you say is a
new um new things versus governments
maybe um privatizing some of the
services they used to deliver? When we
started uh in infrastructure 25 years
ago, we were among the first. Um we
thought that it would be governments
privatizing and to some extent it is and
it's not they're not privatizing because
they have a hard time selling assets.
um what they do is they're just not
investing. Therefore, private enterprise
takes it up. But the biggest area of um
investment today is really just the
whole backbone of the world is changing.
So um the digit digitization of um the
whole world between behind your phone or
your computer
um as you know laptops didn't exist
before, the internet didn't exist
before. Cell phones didn't exist before.
Today you can have this podcast on your
cell phone and go for a run in the
morning. How that gets delivered to you
is data center storing it uh fiber
delivering it to you going to a tower
and bringing it down to your phone
wireless. And all of that needs enormous
amounts of infrastructure and all of
that is built by private enterprise.
Virtually every all in fact not not
virtually all of that is delivered to
you as an individual and this is 8
billion people in the world getting that
delivered to them in various forms. It's
all delivered by private money and uh
and that's what's changed. It's um
before historically that was built out
by governments. Today it's being built
out by um private enterprise. You know
to use an example we own all of the
telecom towers. not all but we own a
very substantial portion of the telecom
towers in India. Um they deliver all the
phone and wireless infrastructure to uh
many individuals in India and that was
originally built by Reliance Industries
Geo. Um we bought it from them and we
support their and other telecom
companies activities through those
telecom towers and um historically that
would have been built by government. Um
but it was that's built by private
enterprise. Let's go back to the rise of
passive uh maybe versus historically
more active investing. What implications
do you see? What opportunities are
created? Look in every uh in everything
when there's a when I say there's a
problem there's always an opportunity
and I think that's the Chinese symbol
right problem and opportunity. For some
companies, smaller, midsize, don't fit
indexes, they will be lost within um
public markets investing because active
uh investors may not be investing in
those sectors anymore. And if you don't
fit the indexes, you have no buyers. Um,
increasingly though, what it's doing is
that it's creating a a large disparity
in some securities at points in time
between the price of them in the market
and the value of the underlying assets.
Back to you asked me first question.
What has changed in the investing world?
And I said nothing. That's related to
value, right? What's changed is the
price of some things trades up and down.
If over the last 18 24 months, if you've
been one of the big technology stocks in
the world, everyone needed or wanted to
buy you in the indexes and therefore
their multiples traded very high. But if
you were something that
um didn't neatly fit the indexes,
um it traded at a low price, the
opportunities are that we can take those
companies private. So we took a large
container shipping company private. It
had one It had one analyst and nobody
following it. It fit in no indexes. It
was a $6 billion company. Uh and we took
it private and it's been an exceptional
investment. Um so we continue to I'd say
capitalize on opportunities where the
where we understand the value and the
price is not trading at that in the
markets. What can you do with a private
company that you can't do with a public
company? Well, firstly, you don't have
to look at what the price is versus the
value. You just know what the value is
and you run it for what it is. But
secondly, um we can operate differently,
finance differently, invest for the
future, and run a business like somebody
should just run it. If you and I owned a
business
privately, we wouldn't care about the
markets. We wouldn't care about whether
the stock went up or down tomorrow
morning. we just run our business. Cash
flow comes out. We decide should we
dividend it out to ourselves to use
together or should we keep it in the
business and invest? And um and that's
really the the the difference is all you
look at is the fundamentals of your
business if you're
private. And uh if you're public, people
tend to get
distracted by the trading price of the
security when it's not really relevant.
Um, some businesses need access to
capital and have to raise capital and
therefore their price is uh important,
but
most businesses that are listed don't
need access to capital. They're only
listed because they're large um and they
happen to be just they need owners and
therefore they're in the public markets.
they're never issuing equity and
therefore the price of the security in
the market really doesn't matter and uh
in fact it's a distraction which is why
when um people often ask me why what why
what happened with the alternatives
industry and why did it
grow the extent that it grew over the
last 25 years and it it's really grown
that way because um private
assets uh are the fundamentals are exact
actly perfectly matched to the
fundamentals of what institutional
investors want to have in their
portfolios. And maybe even more
importantly, by owning them privately,
they don't have to have the distraction
of the public market. They don't have to
get confused that you and I bought a
telecom tower business. It generates a
6% yield. It grows at 4% every year. And
um we don't have to invest much cash
flow into it. So it's free cash flow.
And uh if it's privately owned, it's
just we just watch the cash flow and
keep growing and try to enhance the
business and grow it. And that's what we
do privately. If it trades in the public
market and today it's worth $20 and
tomorrow because of whatever happens in
the markets it's worth 10, nothing
changed in the business. And uh and that
distraction is what causes people um
issues. they sometimes make rash
decisions and uh and I'd say that's
maybe the biggest um enhancement to
long-term investors uh by having private
assets. I take it you're not an
efficient market hypothesis person. I
you know I I no the answer is no. Um the
uh the markets are never efficient. In
fact, very seldom do they ever trade at
the at the actual um value of
securities. Either most of the most of
the time they trade above or below. Very
seldom do they trade at at the value.
But yes, I guess there are many theories
in life. Let's talk about some of the
trends going on in the world today that
you see from your aperture that you
think have a long runway that we're
maybe just beginning on or maybe in the
middle innings on. So we uh generally
have three sort of themes that we invest
around or we have a few themes we invest
around at all points in time. Today we
have three. Um the first one is uh just
the digitalization of everything and the
amount of capital that's being invested
um behind that
digitalization. Uh and and and really
what it is is there are many many many
many trillions of dollars going into
um the uh movement of information into
the
cloud onto your phone and just the
digitalization of everything behind it.
And um that has been uh enhanced
increased enhanced by artificial
intelligence and the networks being set
up now to harness artificial
intelligence. And um may maybe the most
simplest way to explain it is everyone
thinks of artificial intelligence is
chat GPT. Yeah. I'm going to get it to
write my uh cooking class uh memorandum.
Uh but really what what the where the
money is going to be made is the
application of artificial intelligence
into business. And simply stated, that's
taking
processes in service and industrial
businesses and making them more
efficient by using advanced robotics who
have learned how to make how to run
those processes from
uh models run on artificial
intelligence. And we're in the very very
early stages of that. But um from an
infrastructure standpoint, the amount of
money being put behind this
uh is uh in amounts which have almost
never been seen invested before. So
that's sort of the first theme we have
in uh of investment and it both affects
our operating businesses because we're
we're now applying artificial
intelligence in our businesses to make
them better and they'll be more
productive. uh and we're also investing
and supporting many of the technology
companies with their um funding for the
the redigitalization of the world. Let
let's spend a few minutes on
digitalization before we move on in the
sense of you there's vast data centers
being created today. I would love to
hear your thinking on whether that
investment is going to be where winners
are acred or are we overinvesting as we
typically do in booms and busts and then
walk me through sort of like how you see
winners emerging in this um from end to
end right you generate energy you lease
data centers you walk me through how you
see that so um there's no straight line
in investing to success
And usually at points in time people
will lose money because they get over
excited. Um but
uh there's we're in a period of time
where this is a major major buildout of
what's going on. Um the clear winners uh
in this um AI revolution are going to be
the major uh technology companies. That
that's sort of easy. They're very
sophisticated. They have large balance
sheets and capital to deploy. um they
they've already developed models and
they're going to be very very uh they're
going to win. They're going to win and
they have the data and they have
enormous amounts of data. So all of
they're going to they're going to win up
that that's easy. Like I'm not sure um
there's anything that I would that
that's helpful to you to anyone
listening to this. If I tell you, oh,
you should buy Google. Um these are
going to be great companies and they're
going to continue to be great. The
winners that are unknown today Yeah.
are the companies that are going to
figure out how to
apply artificial intelligence into their
businesses and make them better. And um
there are many businesses today where uh
you cannot get people to operate the the
businesses. There just aren't enough
people. And if you can therefore deploy
robotics into
businesses and um shrink the amount of
labor you need or there are plants that
are being operated in Asia that um had
high dollar value that's why they went
there but the reason high dollar value
products but they went there because
there was high labor component if you
can shrink the labor component um many
of those plants can come back to where
the demand is um specifically I'd say
the United States. So the the unknown
winners are going to be the companies
that can apply artificial intelligence
um into their businesses and make them
more efficient and more profitable. And
I and I I think um those that do it will
win, those that don't, some will fall
behind. Um but the productivity advances
we see over the next 20 years probably
will be unprecedented for a period of
time. Um certainly one we haven't seen
it for a long time uh in business uh
across America. Is there anybody you're
tracking externally that that you would
never acquire that you're you admire how
they're applying sort of technology? So
you know we're in the early early stages
of this and uh so we're we're trying to
learn from everybody. Um we're talking
to many we of course given their scale
we have access to um very significant
resources uh and we can talk to most
people. So we talked to all the
technology greats. We deal with all of
them um in our fundamentally in our
business. Um in addition to that uh
we're continuing to learn and apply
these technologies within our business.
And what I can tell you is the early
learnings of our business, some of our
industrial businesses
are and why I have why I can why I say
the things I just said to you is that
the early learnings are that um the adv
the advancement of productivity is very
very significant
and you see that in your battery like
you guys make half the batteries in the
world don't you? Look our uh we make
just under half of the car batteries. I
mean, we we make the little car battery
that starts your car, you know, when you
uh get up in the morning, it doesn't
start, you have to go get a new one. So,
that normal half of those in winter,
half of those will come from us. Yeah.
Uh that are out there and uh it's an
amazing business and we continue
to re, you know, we're always trying to
optimize businesses. Our job is to uh
invest in businesses and make them
better so that they will grow greater
amounts of cash flow so we can continue
invest in the businesses and and um
provide dividends to our owners. And so
we're as we try to make these better,
we're we're applying artificial
intelligence into all our businesses
including that battery business which is
and why it's a perfect one for these
type of applications is we have 25,000
people in 20 plants. We do very
repetitive
process and as a result and we have $9
billion of costs within the business. If
you can uh improve those by 30% that's a
lot of money to the bottom line and um
and it can be very significant for the
company. Is there another example that
stands out about how you're applying AI
to the businesses that you control? you
know, every single business we have um
we have a health care uh business where
we have um we approve your health care
uh in the United States. If you need a
back surgery and you need to
authorization from your insurance
company to do it, we take the phone call
uh from you and we approve it online. uh
we approve your
$150,000 operation
uh or not. And uh our agents do that and
today the amount of information we can
put up when you call in is incredible.
Uh even from two years ago is
incredible. And that just helps us make
better decisions quicker and serve our
clients who are the the healthcare
companies better. and uh but it's
everywhere you know the the the putting
we're you know we're applying these type
of things in all the businesses but
we're in the we're in the first inning
of this so it's um anybody that hasn't
started should start
uh be and it's not too late we're in the
early innings of the application of this
it's exciting to see where it's going so
we have a trend of digitalization what
other big trends do you see the second
one is that there is a transition of the
world to lowcarbon energy. And uh and I
say it that way because what what's
really important here is that we just
have less carbon out there. And and but
what's what's even more important today
is that solar and wind, which is where
we're um which is what's filling the
gap, are the lowest cost energy sources
for power in the world in most countries
today. And why that's really important
is it doesn't matter whether you choose
to have less carbon or no don't care
about less carbon. what you do choose is
to pay less for your power. Yeah. And uh
and that that that's the the simple
economics are today. If you go to
somebody and say, "Do you want to pay
more for your power?" They will say they
will say, "No, I don't want to pay more
for the power. I'd rather pay less." And
and as a result of it, the lowest cost
power in most countries of the world is
solar and wind. Therefore, you're going
to choose solar and wind. So, it's
inexurable that we're going to build out
most more solar and wind in the world.
Um, in the United States today, there's
no doubt we're drilling more oil, which
is, remember, oil is not used in power.
Oil is used for basically cars,
chemicals, and um, planes. They It goes
into jet engine fuel, goes into car
engine fuel, and it goes into chemicals.
And that has nothing to do with power.
Uh, oil is not used for power. Natural
gas is, and natural gas is one of the
great assets the United States has. Um,
it's going to export it for a long time.
It's going to use a lot of it in
America. Eventually, batteries and
nuclear will be the base load and it
won't be natural gas, but it's being
shipped elsewhere in the
world. And where it's going to is needed
for base load because they they um they
they need that that base load power or
it's replacing coal which is hugely
beneficial to the world. So natural gas
is an incredibly
important bridge fuel in America and
long-term fuel in many other places in
the world. So the LG market uh in the
United States is extremely important and
very lucrative for a long period of
time. So let me make sure I understand
this. So wind and solar low cost and
then gas is sort of the base load when
there's no wind or solar because we
don't yet have the batteries to time
shift. you know we have we have base
load capacity in the US which is nuclear
um that will continue to grow we can
talk about nuclear if we have time later
um what's happening uh in in grids is
that you need something to stabilize the
grids and to store when because remember
solar the sun only shines during the day
it's usually dark at night and wind
actually usually only blows at night but
you norm normally don't have the the um
incidents of both together are not
always the case and you have to have
something to bridge one of those and uh
increasingly in past nuclear's done that
and gas has done that increasingly
battery storage uh at scale distributed
will help both with trans transmission
bottlenecks but also with the um the two
offsetting uh uh amounts. How how do you
see the trend with like data centers in
terms of electrical use? Do you see that
continuing to be because these take a
long time to permit to get into place or
do you see that reducing uh in time? So,
so the reason why uh one of your
questions earlier which I really didn't
answer was um are data centers are we
are we going to get in trouble with the
amount of money that's going into data
centers? And the answer is no. And it's
largely because it takes a long time to
permit a data center. You need to find
power to power the data center. And the
needs of the technology companies are
very significant. And on top of that,
energy usage everywhere is going up. And
as a result of that, it just takes time
to bring sites on. And most sites today
that are available to be built are
already contracted to somebody for the
next 20 years. So, um, we're in a we're
at a a point in time where it's it's
we're now trying to entitle new sites
and we're because of our vast real
estate business, our vast power
business, our vast data center business,
we're as skilled and as um integrated as
they are to entitle new sites. But it
takes time and um we've got some really
exciting large sites coming. But these
most the the earliest big one that's
going to come on that's brand new that
we're entitling will and even though it
has enormous advantages because of it
already has power, it'll be
years away. And so you're like all your
risk is you're derisk because you're not
doing it unless it's contracted out. Is
that ju generally? Yes. We're not uh we
don't we've we've ne in past we never
have and uh I don't think we um we need
to take risk on that and therefore it's
like when we build an office building
you know you're you you let it to a
bunch of tenants then you build it for
them and uh you don't have to take the
risk on that in particular in these
because of the um demand for it. And
what's the third trend that you see? So,
so the the third trend that we um
identified a long time ago, and I'd say
it's uh changed even more, but is more
relevant today than ever, which is just
the
deglobalization of industry, and I or
I'd call it the re-industrialization of
countries
because of what's going on in the world.
And uh that started with COVID. It
started with um uh the Asia West issues
which as you can imagine that one has
only um the the uh since we coined that
four years ago, 5 years ago, it's only
increased given what's been going on. Um
but increasingly many companies are
moving uh industrial capacity back to
western markets where on balance they
can um make sense of putting plants
there. Part of it for supply chain
pharmaceuticals
uh need now need to be next some of it
needs to be next to customer
um because they get caught during co
that all of a sudden all my
manufacturing is in China how do I get
it here it can't get out of China what
am I going to do so increasingly those
type of things um but but also with
tariffs and with other things
um you're going to relocate
manufacturing capacity back to to other
markets and and be lo more local and um
what I would say is things many things
went to Asia and a lot of them will stay
there and the Asian markets will be fine
with this because they've they've now
matured to the point where they are
service economies in
themselves but um many products that
have been developed there will move back
to America America because the labor
components with robotics coming in are
becoming less and less and less. So the
reason for them to be in Asia is
um less there today than it's ever been.
And on top of that, if there happens to
be a tariff long if there is a tariff
longer term, then um then it's even
going to quicken that process up. What
do you see as the second order either
opportunities or challenges to that sort
of call it repatriation of
manufacturing? Look, I think China it's
a it's an economy in itself today. It's
1.5 billion people. They're getting
richer every day. They're turning into a
consumer service society. There's not
that much of manufacturing that's
relevant to them. I think they will they
will do extremely well as a country on
their own. But there are some countries
in the world where they haven't yet
transformed themselves to be service
economies and they're reliant on jobs
that were from outsourced manufacturing.
And if you can do that closer to
consumer, those um countries may have
some issues on balance for western
countries. I'll just take the US as an
example. You're bringing some jobs back.
Maybe not as many as left before to make
the product, but if that product comes
back, you've actually added jobs. And uh
and that's very positive which sort of
leads to the long-term story of America
which is the long-term story of America
is extremely strong because um the US
today has uh energy capital and
technology
dominance. Energy capital and technology
dominance. There's nobody in the world
that has a technology businesses that
the US has. There's nothing in the world
that has the capital markets the US has.
And the US just by nature has
dominance nature and some hard work has
dominance in oil, in gas, in solar and
in wind and has dominance in nuclear.
And those five things together give it
energy dominance in the world for a long
long period of time. And um so I think
those three those three things are going
to make on top of one of the greatest
GDPs in the world an
entrepreneurial class manufacturing
moving back at least to some extent a
lot or to some extent on balance it's
going to be positive for for growth. Um
the US has a pretty good runway going
forward. It sounds like you think we're
at an inflection point for productivity
and some of the the job losses will be
offset by sort of the remanufacturing
uh coming back to the US. H how do you
where do you think we are in that trend
like that game? I guess there is no
straight line in anything. Everyone
always thinks that uh somebody says
something and it's going to happen
tomorrow morning. Usually usually it
happens
uh in greater amounts but it takes
longer periods of time and takes slower
than you think it would happen. Um I I
would say we're in the early stages of
all of this. Uh we're seeing going to
see productivity advances and nobody
just flips a switch. Thing is nobody
ever flips a switch. These are
incremental changes over very long
periods of time. But it's what it means
is that is that the application
of greater intelligence into businesses
is going to
um make business better, more efficient,
more productive and um and better better
for the world frankly. Um that that just
makes us all uh smarter. You mentioned
real estate. How has that changed over
the past I would say 10 but specifically
5 years you know again I would say uh
over the past
uh 25 30 years 10 years 5 years um these
things always just evolve and uh you
know industrial capacity used to be just
used for manufacturing storage of goods
and today it's used for transportation
of many goods that are delivered to
homes so industrial has changed
enormously changed as a business over
the past 10 years. Retail has changed
because people used to all their
shopping uh uh in stores. Today what
they do is they do very bespoke shopping
in stores and they want experiences in
stores. But if you want to buy paper
towels, you usually don't go to the
mall. You just order it online. And um
but but if you want to have a meal and
you want to go and try on a shirt or
pair of pants or have some fun for the
afternoon, you go to the mall. And
that's that's what's changed is that
commodity goods, if you own commodity,
if you own almost today commodity
anything, it's bad. If you own commodity
office, bad. If you own commodity
retail, bad. You own commodity
industrial bad. In fact, if you own
commodity hotels, bad. Yeah. Um, if you
what's great today is all of those
things in the top 25%. And our our view
always has been buy the best, uh, own
the best, buy the best, continue to
reinvest into the best. And so our real
estate is among the best in the world.
Um, and we continue to um experience
some some great numbers. A look over the
last 5 years because of COVID and
because other things and because
interest rates went up by 400 500 base
points um all of that disrupted the real
estate market but the the worst is uh
behind us by far. We're looking in the
rearview mirror by by um uh what
happened in real estate and in fact this
time the
fundamentals are actually pretty good in
most things. Um it's just there are some
people that have uh capital structures
that aren't built for these financing
markets. Uh and therefore they'll have
to put capital in to be able to delever
or whatever they have to do or or
somebody else will take over the asset.
Um but that's not a a huge issue across
the world. maybe spend a few minutes and
sort of like take me behind the scenes
in how you think about risk and how you
think about interest rates and how you
think about debt when it comes to
assets. Our uh our fundamental thesis of
investing is that you should put a
prudent amount of debt on assets that
can withstand markets. Um, if you can,
then you should fix it cuz you know your
cost and um and from time to time if you
got it wrong, you put a little make sure
you have a little more money around to
put it in and and support your asset.
So, um, we've always conservatively
financed our businesses and assets. All
of our financing is asset by asset by
asset by asset or business by business
by business by business. So any debt
that we accumulate onto our consolidated
balance sheet, it's just the
accumulation of a whole bunch of single
asset financings and um and it's not
that we ever want to or think that we
will give back assets or not live up. In
fact, our reputation is with our lenders
is that we're one of the best sponsors
in the world to borrow uh lend money to
because we support our businesses. But
buying hav having asset by asset by
asset financing allows you to just deal
with the situation one by one by one and
and it's duration mean they're spread
over long long periods of time and um
and with interest rates um I think the
most important thing to remember is we
don't borrow the treasury rate only the
government borrows at treasury rates and
uh what we borrow at is treasury rate
plus spread. spread. Yeah. And
historically spreads were 200 basis
points and interest rates were uh 300
basis points and therefore you borrowed
at five. And when co when COVID hit
interest rate uh the Treasury rate went
to zero. Yeah. And what the borrow most
of the lenders said to us is I'm not
going to lend you at 200 over and give
you three. I'm widening that out to to
uh 350. So I'll give you
five and or four and a half and uh
therefore before we were boring at five
and in CO we were boring at four and a
half. So when people say, "Oh, geez, you
got all this financing in COVID." Um,
yes, maybe some people did and some
people got very ex low rates because
rates were zero and they might have
borrowed at two at an extreme point in
time, but not very much. And most of it,
lenders just widened the spread out.
Today, base rates are high. We're back
to five. Guess what? Spreads are the
lowest they've ever been in history. We
just did a 30-year Brookfield
Corporation financing. So, we're
borrowing money for 30 years fixed for
that time period. And it's 125 over.
So
spreads spreads basically all-in coupons
are important and um and that's really
important to remember about um investing
in real assets, real estate, but also
infrastructure, renewables, etc. What
distortions do you see by sort of like
historically low interest rates? And
even by today's standards, you mentioned
they went up. They they have gone up
quite a bit, but historically they're
still well below average. Yeah, look, I
think the that's that that maybe is the
most important point to note here is
that um interest rates aren't that high.
They're they're higher than they were
because interest rates went to zero and
for a number of years after the
financial crisis they were close to zero
and uh now they're actually in a normal
a relatively normal range. I'm sure
we're going to see another few hund few
few another 50 100 basis points off of
the short rates and we're going to
settle into just a regular range of
rates. But these rates are actually
pretty normal and for our business very
um constructive and the things that we
can do and we're refinancing it because
the coupons aren't that much different
than what they were before. people. We
talked about sort of dislocations
providing opportunities and you know
maybe spend a few minutes walking me
through how you think of positioning to
manage the recycle but not only maintain
your assets uh but also take advantage
of dislocations in the market. So the
first thing one has to do when there are
dislocations in the market is make sure
that you have been you were prepared for
it. So the one thing you should do
always when times are really good is
ensure that you're preparing for the
down market that's coming uh the ones
that
don't uh usually aren't successful in
the fullness of time. But if you are
prepared the first order of business is
let's double down and make sure that
we're fully prepared. But then secondly
and and and and um I'd say coming out of
recessions or cycles coming out of the
bottom what's most importantly is just
have everything you have intact. Do not
lose anything. Do not lose too much and
keep going because there'll be many
people who have lost stuff.
What's even better to enhance the
business is at that point in time as the
market's starting to recover and once
you're comfortable, we've taken care of
all the things within our business that
you can then invest capital um into new
businesses at that point in time and add
to your entity. And if you can, that's
the difference between the great winners
and long-term investing and the um and
those that are just in the middle. You
have almost well, you have over a
trillion dollars in management now. How
do you fend off the pressure to deploy
that money? It sounds like a lot of
money. It is a lot of money. It sounds
like a lot of money. It's a trillion
dollars, but it's not that much when you
do what we do. Couple years ago, we
bought Deutsche Telecom's half a Delich
Telecom's telecom tower business in
Germany uh and Austria. It's $20 billion
transaction. We're building for
Microsoft $13
billion of power plants. Um we're
building with Intel a $ 32 billion
uh fabrication plant in Arizona. Um you
know, I can go through the list. These
are large transactions that consume
significant amounts of capital that earn
excellent long-term returns. And
um I just use that to
say we're we're we've been doing this a
long time. Um what we promise our
investors and our clients is that we
will take moderate amounts of risk. um
not no risk, but moderate amounts of
risk and earn um good good returns over
long periods of time. We won't shoot the
lights out. You're not going to get 45%
returns every year. Um and we're not
trying for that. But average returns
over an above average period of time
equal outstanding returns. Yeah. And
that's the point. The point is we've
earned our parent companies earned 19%
return annualized returns for 30 years.
uh when you compound up which doesn't
sound like very much 19% returns
annualized for 30 years like it just
when you say that in that line doesn't
sound like that much but I think that's
a million dollars became almost $200
million over that period of time or
$1,000 became $200,000 it's a lot and uh
so so the point
is success in investing isn't about
making a lot of money in a short period
of time what it's really about is
earning reasonable returns over very
long periods of time and and look look
that's Berkshire Hathaway Berkshire
Hathaway is successful because
um uh they have been able to deploy
capital at reasonable amounts of turn
over very long periods of time and uh
and that's the success of long-term
investing. Is that a company you look up
to? Look, they've done an incredible job
in uh in their business over a very long
period of time. Maybe you mentioned over
30 years. Walk me through a little bit
of the history of Brookfield and then
the future where we're going. So, we
started as an operating business. We
just invested for
ourselves. Um we had the businesses that
we basically have today. uh
infrastructure, real estate, renewables,
and industrial service. We call it
private equity today. Businesses and
credit lending. Those were our five
businesses. We did it for ourselves and
we lent money. And um 25 years ago, we
decided that we could take those skills
we had and turn them into a business to
be able to um
manage some of our money and some of our
institutional or other clients money.
and um and offer alternatives into those
funds. When it started, nobody wanted to
invest with us because they didn't
really understand alternatives. And
today um that's turned into a trillion
dollar business. Um it's been extremely
successful largely because
um these products are ideal for
institutional and retail clients to
invest into. in the the past 25 years
has been about institutional and and
this comment is not meant to say that
they won't be investing but
their their increase from going from
zero to some of them are at 30 40 50%
alternatives. Um when you go from zero
to 50 you can't go to 100. So a lot of
them are at their numbers. But what's
happening today and and to your question
of the future is that the same
phenomena is now happening in retail. Uh
retail being individuals 401ks in the US
are going to open up to alternatives. I
think plans around the world will open
up to
alternatives. Uh alternatives are ideal
products for retail as well. In fact,
they're almost more ideal because you're
saving for your retirement and uh what
better to have in there than a product
that earns a reasonable return over a
very long term long period of time and
can compound. And so the the future of
our asset management business is really
about um that um the opening up of
retail and continued growth of retail
wealth uh with our products. Doing the
same things that we do for institutions,
exact same, but now just opening up in
different types of products that are
suited or tailored for um individuals.
What does that mean? Maybe walk me
through it because, you know, I've
always thought you've had these
available to people. I could go buy
Brookfield Infrastructure on the public
market. You you can buy it in the public
market that fits in a stock portfolio,
but you to date we haven't offered you a
product for your 401k in the private
market. Okay. that was open to you to
say, "Do you want to buy um
infrastructure with us and just own a
bunch of data centers and different
things like that?" Um, we happen to have
a couple of listed ones that are very
unique, but but
the what people want is private assets
within their portfolios, and that's
going to
increase, I'd say, exponentially over
the next 20 years. So retail is sort of
the future, but another big area that
you're investing in is insurance. Maybe
walk me through some of the
opportunities you see over the next 20
or 30 years in insurance. Yeah, so
outside of our asset management
business, uh we decided to um take a
portion of our capital and um put it
into insurance 5 years ago. It was a
fertuitous time because we bought some
um excellent insurance companies uh at a
point in time where they weren't doing
very well because interest rates were
extremely low and they weren't earning
very high returns on their capital. Fast
forward four years later, the companies
are doing extremely well. We're making
$2 billion a year of cash flow within
the business. And um and insurance for
us is is um I I'd say the following.
Firstly, uh, and maybe just to go back,
our goal was get in the insurance
business, not not because we wanted to
be in
insurance. What our goal is is our
clients come to us because they
um they want our investment skills. What
we have is a very unique offering is a
bunch of investment skills that can
create products um for long-term
investors.
uh our insurance company now being $120
billion of assets is a perfect long-term
uh investor into all of the things we do
from our asset management business. So
we have a special
um a special expertise to be able to
offer because we have access to our
investment products or great we have
greater access or greater comfort with
all the investment products to be able
to put into the insurance companies than
most other uh uh groups out there. Maybe
there's a few other others like us but
not very many and um therefore we have a
special benefit for that. So we we've
chosen annuities um in the United States
largely so far. We've now just got
licensed in the uh United Kingdom. Um
but why annuities? What appeals to you
about that? It's just because they're
they're lowrisk liabilities. We we were
not taking on high risk on the
liabilities side. Our goal originally
was in getting into this was don't take
risk on the liabilities, earn our money
on the asset side. And um and we have
this unique ability to earn excess
returns on the asset side. And our goal
was put very significant amounts of
capital and over capitalize the
businesses which allows us to do things
in the on the asset side of the balance
sheet which is very um different than
many insurance companies. And what you
know we we can own real estate uh to a
greater extent. We can own alternatives
to a greater extent. We can own
infrastructure to a greater extent. Um
we can own high yield bonds as opposed
to just uh fixed income on the market.
Um all the things that we do for our
clients um we can put them into the
insurance company and they may take more
capital but we've over capitalized the
company. So we started with $4 billion.
We've increased the capital I think to
seven 161 17 billion of book equity
um within the business. we continue to
over capitalize, but on top of that, we
have another hundred billion $150
billion of capital up top that if we
need more money, we'll put it into the
insurance companies to ensure they're
healthy and better than any that are out
there. And um and we have an excellent
relationship with the regulators
um and explain all these things to them
and are very transparent with all the
transactions we do with them. Um, and we
happen to have some very unique things
that we can do because, you know, for
example, if we own an office building
and somebody owns the other half and
they want to sell and we know that's a
really cheap uh price they're going to
sell at, um, that's a great real estate
investment for our in for our insurance
company. Very seldom do people have that
opportunity with our knowledge and
access to opportunities. So, it's a
pretty unique um offering and and that's
what we what we bring to the table. Do
you think you'll get out of annuity?
Well, stay in annuities but expand into
other businesses. I'm imagining short
duration stuff is probably the property
and casualties is not doesn't lend
itself to that type of investing, but
maybe reinsurance or Yeah, look, I I
would say we wanted to start this is a
25-y year venture. Uh we're 5 years in.
Um, we wanted to start to make sure that
we uh uh knew what we were doing. We met
all our regulators. We uh earned their
respect. Um, and we um we operate we
could operate and figure out what were
all the risks. Um, we've been in it 5
years. We're very comfortable. over time
uh we may branch out into other types of
uh other products that we can understand
that fit our skill set and um and that's
really what's important to us. So first
we're expanding internationally writing
annuities or pension risk transfer
annuities which are both are very
similar. Uh so instead of instead of
going out of our uh comfort zone on the
type of liability, what we're doing
today is we're expanding to the UK and
which is a big uh pension risk transfer
market and that that's just a different
way to expand. Are the pension risk
defined benefit or define contribution?
These are uh p pension risk transfer
means which happens in the US, Canada
and the UK largely those three places in
the world. Um what it means is that if
there's a corporation that has a defined
benefit plan that wants to get it off
their balance sheet. So they they have a
$10 billion plan. There's 10 billion
assets, 10 billion liabilities.
They can commute that plan to us and we
can our insurance company can take it.
So they're no longer on the hook for the
plan. They're no longer uh at risk on
the assets or the liabilities. We've
assumed that risk. We will now pay their
pensioners and they gave us the assets
to earn over time hopefully the the
amount of money to pay all their
pensioners. And if not, we're on the
hook for it, not them. Can you spend a
few minutes walking me through the
machinery of Brookfield and why you've
structured it the way you have? Look, I
I would just say um like one I'll
preface this with like one of the
criticisms from the outside in is that
it's super complicated. There's a lot of
different entities and moving parts. How
do you think through that? So, I would
just say that uh yes, there are probably
more pieces of Brookfield. First Sam, I
I I I I might disagree first by saying
there there
are many companies in the world that are
large like us and they have as many many
pieces as we do. That's first point. So
I'm not sure that's actually a true
statement, but I'll take your uh I'll
take your uh points at at face value.
And I would just say each one of the
pieces we've set up has been highly
thought through and contributes a lot to
the business. These are not random
things we've done. They're very specific
and they contribute enormous value in
the long term to the
company. And because of that
um we have to explain them more to maybe
sometimes have to explain them more to
investors. But for our uh friends, they
understand exactly why those pieces are
there and what they do for us and um and
what each
accomplishes. In the short term, I could
we could wave a wand and get rid of all
those uh as you denote complicated
parts. We could wave a wand, get rid of
them all. In the in the long term, it
would be bad for shareholders. less less
returns would be earned. We would be
more at um financial risk. We would have
we we have the maximum amount of
flexibility within our structure to be
able to go through deal with
opportunities, risks, and everything
that's out there. So, I I just I I uh I
look, we can always do better on
explaining the pieces and and we try all
the time and it's incredibly our our
reputation is incredibly important to
us. Um so when people criticize us about
our structure, our different things that
are there, um we try to double down and
make sure we explain it all to people.
Um, but what I I would just say that
each of those pieces is really important
and uh and contribute a lot to the
business. Hypothetically, if you were to
all put it under one umbrella, how would
that change the opportunity set
available to you? It would just mean
dilution to some shareholder and and
and for example, we spun off our asset
management business uh two years ago.
There's a whole group of US investors
largely that buy asset management
businesses that only want to be invested
in asset management. They don't want to
own assets that we own. They don't want
to be invested in insurance. They don't
want to do all the other things we do.
Um they don't want to change like our
our parent company Brookfield
Corporation.
It has changed in 35 years in many
different ways in many different times
for the benefit of all of us. But you
need to you need to trust us when we're
changing. Brookfield Asset Management is
a pure play asset management business
that's asset light that will probably
never be anything
different. You can trust us for that and
that's what it is. So they're just
they're just different audiences and um
and it just allows us to have a security
which is tailored to that audience and
if we want to offer it to somebody in
the public markets or to an or to
another alternative manager we want to
merge in or something it gives us the
opportunity to do that and not have to
deal with all the other issues that we
have. what about your insurance business
or what about your investments or what
what are you going to do next and uh and
it just allows us to do that. So I don't
like we could do it. It just would take
away a lot of the great benefits we have
in the organization. If you put your
investor Bruce hat on, which of the
businesses do you think is the best
positioned for the next 15 years? And
I'm not asking returns. I just mean
which business do you think is the best
competitively positioned? I just think
they're all different. They're they're
all totally different. Everything we
invest into has
enormous opportunity going forward as
long as we execute properly. Um but
they're each one of them's different. Uh
I I get excited I could I could get
excited about having all of my net worth
in every single one of them. And uh and
they're all pretty exciting going
forward. Maybe spend a few minutes on
talent and people. Brookfield is known
to take really big bets with what from
the outside looking in would be young
people. What do you see in people that
gives you the confidence to take bets in
them? How do you build a culture where
uh meritocracy rises and people can take
big bets? So, we've always had the view
that um well, firstly, we're an extreme
meritocracy. Uh this is a partnership.
It's partnership of individuals. Uh when
when we leave the partnership are
sharers that if you're an owner or
controller of the partnership, they go
away. They go on to somebody else. So um
nobody's family will ever uh will ever
be part of this partnership. It's a
meritocracy. Second, we've always had
the view that um a cross between
uh uh wise older people and smart,
aggressive young people. both um give
you the gravitas to deal with situations
which you need a little history but also
allow you to be um allow you to know
more about what's going on today. I'm
positive our 30-year-olds today in the
business know more about technology than
I do because they've grown up with it
differently. Um, it allows us to be
faster, better,
quicker to every new trend in the world
and what's going on out there. And it
also, I'd say, creates a culture where
people want to be here and get ahead
because they know they can. And um and
so I look we uh
brought to the partners and to our
senior people uh three years ago we
brought Connor Tesy forward as the next
person that will be the CEO of the asset
management business.
Um that was internally uh vetted. It was
then externally vetted. And today we're
in the process of him uh continuing to
meet clients and investors and all those
kind of things. And I think he's 37
years old today. Um he's incredibly
passionate,
talented, and uh and he'll bring through
a whole new group of people within the
company and re-energizing businesses is
what makes them better and different.
Walk me through some of those meetings
where you're making a big investment
decision. What goes on behind the
scenes? How do you quantify risk? Where
do you spend your time on deals? Our uh
our investment process is we only invest
in things that we deal with and know. Um
we have people on the ground and our
knowledge of the business and um and
we're our investment committees are
normally only focused on downside
protection.
upside will always take care of itself.
And whether you shoot for 16%, 22,
29, 18, none of those matter. They're
all great. What's really important is
what are the
risks, how what can go wrong, how bad
could it get, and um and how do we deal
with it if that happens? And so we spend
virtually all of our time on townside
protection at our investment committees
and that's all that's important to us.
When you're wrong, where are you
typically wrong? And you haven't been
wrong a lot. No. No. Look, we make
mistakes. We try to make small mistakes.
I'd say that's it. When we're wrong,
where are we wrong? were wrong in
increment in small ways.
um which
aren't have you you don't know about
them very much because in the last 35
years we've been right generally on the
large things and nothing has been
uh irreparably harm uh
harmful and um and that's because the
things we do are small incremental and
when we make mistakes we we we make them
along the way and we encourage people to
keep learning and and growing because if
you don't make some mistakes you never
advance but do not make big mistakes and
that's I'd say that's the biggest thing
we try um to impress across the
organization. You mentioned the
investment committee. I just wonder
behind the scenes are investment
decisions signed off by by one person or
is it committee that signs off? And if
it's a committee, how do you hold people
accountable or responsible for those? So
our uh usually what happens is some
transaction came into the company some
way or we had an idea and we don't talk
to somebody and a transaction came
about. Uh it's then approved by today
because we have these vast businesses.
It's approved in the business. But then
we have one committee that it's almost
like an allocation committee up top
because we want to know how many across
the organization. We want to know how
many transactions are happening at any
one point in time. So we're not
compromising like you said, how could
you make a mistake? If everybody made a
massive transaction at the same point in
time, what we're probably betting on is
a cycle. And you may not like want that.
And if you do, you better knowingly do
it. And um so uh in addition to all the
deals being approved down below where
accountability comes from uh we have an
oversight committee that approves
everything that goes on in the
organization which includes six or eight
of us and uh and that approves
everything really just to have be a
final governor over the entire
organization. Are there patterns to
cycles that you notice in advance of
them happening where you're like, we're
at the first inning or we're at the late
stages? What are the signs that you look
for? I I would just say that uh cycles
are never the same, but they sort of
rhyme and they look similar.
So, um, the one thing of having wise
older guys around, I'll consider myself
that today. Uh, uh, I used to be a young
unwise individual. Uh, I'll try to
consider I know I'm old, just not sure
I'm wise. But uh I
um some of the reason for having the the
wiser individuals around is is having
the
um elongated knowledge of what goes on
in cycles and what goes on in periods
and and we've seen this before is
helpful. Sometimes it's a
hindrance, but sometimes it's very
helpful for context. And uh and
therefore that's that that's what makes
great organizations I think in our view
is that you have um the combination of
the tenacity and passion to make
investments and be successful tempered
by
um the
uh knowledge and skills of past and
what's gone wrong to be able to bring
together risk management and drive to
succeed.
I I'm curious like how you would teach
me to that knowledge of cycles like how
would you pass that on to somebody in
your organization or or me if you were
to sort of here are the things I look
for or don't look for or you know I I
would say uh in general we don't do
training
quote unquote
but every day every single person in
this organization is learning and it's a
it's a learn by osmosis process. We have
open plan uh in the place including
myself never had an office and uh and
people talk to one another and it's very
interactive and therefore well I started
off by saying we don't train anybody uh
we train them every single day and uh
it's just different than sending people
to school. Do you do like post-mortems
after an investment and what's the key?
Oh yeah, especially the bad ones. What
goes into those? Like walk me through
that. Take me behind the scenes. And we
try to look at look the the uh
successful ones you can usually identify
and know what happened. The unsuccessful
ones are harder to identify what
happened. Um but often there are there
are reasons why and it either comes down
to execution. Uh you didn't you didn't
execute properly.
um you had um you mistimed the market or
you just made a bad bad flawed
investment decision and those are the
worst. You mist time the market n you
know it's okay. Um but
uh uh making flawed investment decisions
is really bad. Is that where you you've
got the business strength wrong, the
competitive dynamics wrong? You don't
understand. I I just sometimes it's
we're sometimes we're pushing out into
areas which are adjunct to what we do
and we probably shouldn't have. We
really didn't know what we're doing and
um not often does it happen but once in
a while. How how much of your investment
decision you you focus on the downside,
but how much of it is like we're
modeling out the next five years and
then we're tracking to that model or
the the only thing I tell you about a
model is produced in an investment
committee is it will never be exactly
what happens.
Um, but uh I'd say if you get the we're
trying to get the trends right is is
really what it is is in investing it's
can you get the trend right and and I
would say most of our investing is uh
we're trying to get the price right for
value and therefore often we're buying
at a discount to what we think is the
value of something and um and therefore
that's an an important uh thing to note.
How do you think about the geopolitical
risk?
We we invest in backbone
infrastructure largely and even our
private equity businesses are backbone
infrastructure type businesses.
Therefore, what's important for us is to
go to good countries with good people
that you can operate with the standards
we operate with and that those countries
respect rule of law and will over time
be good places to
invest. We don't really sell over
borders. So in the United States where
we are
um we own data centers and telecom
towers and real estate and industrial
facilities and all of the things that we
own in the US and we make batteries and
we etc. All all of those are consumed by
individuals or companies in the United
States. They're not shipped. We make
power. It's used within state. Um,
so politics don't really matter to us.
You know, they do in the margin, but on
balance, as long as you invested in a
good country,
um, you're going to be fine. And by
good, I'm assuming you mean stable rule
of law, how do you think you're good? I
good means um, for us, it has to be
large enough to be able to invest. Like
we can't have small countries just not
because they're not good. They're not
good place to invest. It's just not
meaningful to us. When you have a
trillion dollars things, the benefit or
the um
uh or the drawback Yeah. the drawback is
that uh is that you can't go to a little
country like we just we can't invest the
uh $100 million. It's not relevant to
us, right? Um so we need large places.
We'd like them to have uh we need to
operate with the standards that we
operate globally with. Um, we need to be
we we'd like to have large GDP. We'd
like to have it growing. Uh, and we'd
like to have a currency that's
relatively it doesn't have to doesn't
have to grow better than everyone else.
It just has to stay consistent. If it's
highly volatile, not good. If it goes
down over the long periods of time, bad.
Um, so we we'd rather pick countries
with those
um those factors and but it all comes
down to price. like some some have all
that and then you you you invest uh when
you can but but for us we have to have
people on the ground so we pick those
countries very methodically we put
people on the ground we invest from time
to time new investments when we find the
opportunities but we don't randomly go
to countries like this is not a random
business this is hard work therefore we
have to be in country be able to action
and opportunity when it comes and
therefore if we're not in a country and
somebody calls us with an opportunity we
just say sorry we're not set up to do
that can't no can do. It seems like part
of your secret sauce is not only doing
that in advance but also you seem to
prove the model before you take outside
investors into it. You know like I would
say we have a large amount of capital
ourself. We've always invested ourself.
We want to make mistakes with our own
money first, not with others. Our
reputation with our clients is the only
thing we have. And uh and that's really
important to us. And and we try to
incrementally go to places. For example,
we we have a massive platform in the
United States. So we started insurance
in the United
States. Now we're going to the
UK to do the same thing we did in the
United States.
and we just got licensed to do that. But
it um we now have all the experience we
have from the United States. We probably
couldn't have started there, right?
Because we just didn't have the same
presence there as we had here. And we
always end these interviews with the
same question, which is what is success
for you?
Brookfield
uh is one of
the great investment
uh management groups in the world today
and 20 years from today. success is that
it is um bigger, broader,
um more relevant to clients uh and
continues to do exactly what it does
today for everybody and earn reason earn
reasonable returns with with downside
risk protected. And if we can do that,
we'll have felt success
uh of all of this.
Wow, what a great episode that was with
Bruce. I was so glad to be able to
travel to New York and make that happen
on short notice. I think it's only the
second public podcast Bruce has ever
done and I feel very honored and and
very thankful that I was the one he
chose. I thought the trajectory of the
conversation was really interesting sort
of talking about how things have changed
and Bruce brought it back to what hasn't
changed, right? So over the past 25
years, you know, a lot of things have
changed in the market. A lot of things
have changed with politics, but what
hasn't changed is sort of buying value
and trying to buy assets for less than
they're worth. How you go about doing
that. The environment you're operating
in uh is different, but the the goal
hasn't changed. I like that they prove
their concepts internally before they
bring them out externally. I wish you
would have got into a little bit more of
the implications and opportunities that
the rise of passive creates the passive
investing where everybody's indexed. You
talked a little bit about sort of like
the dislocation in the index, but we
talked a little bit about geopolitics
too and that is an interesting backdrop
for them, but it sounds like how they're
trying to approach that is to stay out
of it, which I think is probably a smart
smart play for them. We talked about
digitalization trends, the big trends
being digitalization, global energy
transition and declobalization. And so
those three trends at the forefront of
all of those AI one is super interesting
for me because I was trying to figure
out is this energy buildout sustainable?
Is this where like is this energy
buildout going to keep going and where
will winners emerge? It sounds like
winners are not going to emerge
uh the LLM model. This is, you know, in
all the conversations we've had recently
that are going to start coming out
between Gary Tan and um Brett Taylor and
now Bruce, I think, you know, the LLMs
are probably going to be a commodity and
Josh talked about this too, the episode
with Josh Wolf where data is really
going to be the driver, right? And so
the application layer where you can add
value is going to be a huge winner.
That's really interesting because that
almost implies something like Meta is
going to do really well with all the
data they have. We talked about
timeshifting power and sort of like the
transition away from coal and there's
trillions of dollars needed for this
over the next, you know, 30, 50, 100
years. I thought that was really
interesting. It would have been really
nice to talk about who they view as
their competitors and you know their
their single biggest advantage. Um I
thought Bruce is I thought he was joking
when he's like a trillion dollars isn't
a lot of money but uh it is a lot of
money. One of the lessons that you know
sticks with me from Buffett and we talk
about this all the time at front street
and on the podcast and in my book clear
thinking you know positioning is the
capacity to take pain. uh it's also the
way that you can seize opportunity. So
you have to be able to do two things at
once. So one is survive the pain the
physical the psychological
uh the emotional pain that comes with
doing something different and then you
that would be you know step one. Step
two is uh now can I take advantage of
the opportunity in front of me? So, how
do we take control of our circumstances
and not be mastered by our
circumstances? Or how do we not get
forced into increasingly bad decisions
or forced into a decision that we don't
want to make? And I think Bruce uh is a
master at that over the years. He talked
about one of the ways that they do that.
Uh actually, he talked about two of the
ways. Two of the ways they do that is
they really focus on the downside during
the investment committee meetings. The
second way that they do that
is they do asset level financing. So
it's nonreourse to the parent firm. Each
asset has its own financing. So if they
buy a building, all the financing tied
to that building is only to that
building. So at the end of the day, if
if the deal goes wrong or they they can
just walk away and you can take that for
a lot of different ways. And you know,
on a firm level, that's probably good.
If you're the lender, you know that
going into it. So it it's sort of like a
mutual like a a transaction where
everybody agrees. Uh but I thought that
that was interesting, right? The
non-reourse aspect of it. Berkshire
Hathway does the same thing. Um they
sort of do non-reourse financing. I
thought that was interesting. Uh a lot
of businesses do that. We talked about
the history of the firm a little bit. Uh
but we talked more about the future in
terms of insurance is definitely going
to be a big trend for them and the the d
the energy transition. I I like how we
it's not decarbonization anymore. I
think the language has changed to uh
global energy transition. The insurance
stuff is really interesting. Uh it's
obviously the natural extension for them
for they're an asset manager. How do you
get assets? Well, insurance companies
have tons of assets. They're managing
those assets. They're custodians or
stewards of those assets for the policy
holders. Uh but in the meantime, they
can invest those assets and earn a
return on them. And if you can invest
those assets better than your peers,
which is how Berserway is sort of one of
the ways that they be they've been so
successful, then you can gain an
advantage. And I think that that uh is
something that Brookfield is looking to
do. We talked about one of the large
public criticisms against Brookfield
being that it is so so complex, at least
from the outside looking in. And so I
thought he handled that question really
well in in the sense of you know they're
they're running the firm for
shareholders and it was actually one of
their largest shareholders I won't
mention who who gave me that question to
ask Bruce about complexity and so it is
complex and you know what are they going
to do about it? It doesn't sound like
anything. Uh, and I think that that, you
know, brought me back in my head at
least to the 70s in Buffett where, you
know, Berkshire Hathaway was set up in
this very legal way, but it was so
complex uh that they just decided to
simplify it. Alice Schroeder talks about
that in the snowball. And I I think
that, you know, that's an interesting
parallel here. And I'm not comparing
Brookfield and Bergkshire by any
stretch, but there is a lot of
complexity to the firm, a lot of
transacting between
related entities uh
where from the outside looking in it
looks really complicated. I love how
they let people take big bats um at a
young age. So Bruce took over in his
late 30s or early 40s, I can't remember.
And then Connor is taking over now and
is sort of like the transition to him is
is underway and you know might be 5
years and it might be 10, who knows? Uh
might be tomorrow.
You can never predict this stuff, but
they they have no problem taking really
big bats with young people. And you
know, I wish you would have got in a
little bit more to like what gives them
the confidence to take those big bats on
on such young people. Yeah, I thought
overall this was a great interview. I'm
really appreciative of the fact that
such a widely known and legendary
investor chose us to to come on the
podcast. So, thank you for listening and
learning. Until next time.
[Music]
Thanks for listening and learning with
us. The Frenum Street blog is where you
can learn more about my new book, Clear
Thinking: Turning Ordinary Moments into
Extraordinary Results. It's a
transformative guide that hands you the
tools to master your fate, sharpen your
decision-making, and set yourself up for
unparalleled success. Learn more at
fs.blog/clear. Until next time,
[Music]
