[Music]
Hello and welcome to a special Oak Tree
podcast. We're delighted to once again
take you inside the Oak Tree office.
This time live from New York for a
fireside chat with Howard Marx,
moderated by me, Harry Whitelaw, in
celebration of the 35th anniversary of
his famous memos. We hope you enjoy
listening in.
Well, welcome everyone both here in New
York and around the world for this very
special fireside chat with Howard Marx,
a man whose accomplishments make him
difficult to introduce adequately. We
know Howard as a legendary credit
investor, an endeavor in which he has a
few peers, not many, but a few. We know
him as the co-founder of a leading
alternative asset manager. Again, an
endeavor with a few peers out there, not
many, but a few. We also know him as the
writer of an extraordinary body of
literature that has transcended our
industry. The memos in this endeavor he
has no peers at all, no comparables. He
stands in a group of one. The memos are
an institution read by everyone from
budding finance students to the most
aerudite practitioners in our industry
including one Mr. Warren Buffett. They
chart the most impactful financial
events of our lives. But perhaps more
importantly, they chart Howard's
investment philosophy. This October, we
celebrate 35 years of them. To mark the
occasion, we'll be releasing a complete
digital anthology of all Howard's memos
and a special greatest hits edition,
painstakingly whittleled down by Howard
and I over the last few weeks. But of
course, today we're here to listen to
the man himself, everyone, Howard Marx.
Howard, great to be with you today.
>> Thank you, Harry. Great to be here.
Thank you for doing this.
>> Well, we better start in 1990, the year
of the first memo. What were you doing
at the time? And why put finger to
typewriter for the first time?
>> Well, I I guess I was roughly half my
age and uh um still working at TCW. The
memos did not come from some grand plan
or decision to have a series of memos
but rather just from an interesting
event or the justosition of two
interesting events that occurred in 1990
and that I I thought illuminated our
approach and the clients would like to
know about.
>> So design for clients but an early
decision to focus on clarity rather than
the jargon and numbers perhaps common
place with most financial literature.
Well, that was never a conscious
decision on my part. I never thought of
the alternative. I always try to write
the way I speak and that's all I did. I
just wrote it down. I think things are
more readable if they're casual. Casual
rather than intimidating or ariodite. To
me, that's important. And the greatest
notes I get from readers and I'm happy
to say a theme is they say you made
something complex simple. And when they
say that, I feel like mission
accomplished because that's what I'd
like to do.
>> Clarity at the forefront. If you've ever
had your work marked by Howard, the best
response is very clear. HM nothing else.
>> You ever get that?
>> Not yet. Not yet.
Not yet. And this might come as a
surprise, right? You did not get a
response for quite a long time from that
first memo.
>> 10 years. Of course, this was in the
days before electronic communications.
So, we would print them out, fold them
up, put them in an envelope, put an
address on, put a stamp on, throw them
in a mailbox. And for people to respond,
first of all, it went to small numbers.
If it started in 1990 with our actual
clients, it might have been a hundred,
probably less. But even then, for people
to actually respond, they would have to
either actively pick up the phone or
actively write out a note and went
through that process of addressing and
stamping and mailing. And so I never had
a response. Not only did nobody ever say
it was good, but nobody even said I got
it. But yet, I kept doing it. Obviously,
I think I was doing it cuz I enjoyed it
and I've always found it a creative
outlet and almost an artistic outlet. I
just love the process. I do my first
draft and then I refine it. I just love
the process.
>> We iterate. We always do.
>> And it was bubble.com that broke the
deadlock, right? That was written in
January 2000.
>> I'll read your closing remark.
>> To say technology, internet, and
telecommunication stocks are too high
and about to decline is comparable today
to standing in front of a freight train.
To say they've benefited from a boom of
colossal proportions and should be
examined very skeptically is something I
feel I owe you. 2 months later the
bubble began to deflate. One of the
biggest wealth destruction events in
history. Take us back to the experience
of writing that memo and going against a
market that was pure exuberance at the
time. Right. Well, the idea came in the
fall of 99 when I was reading a book
called Devil Take the Heindostmost, a
history of financial speculation by
Edward Chancellor. And it talked about
past bubbles and it talked about in
particular about the South Sea bubble in
which the British government granted an
exclusive license to something called
the South Sea Company for trade with
what I think turned out to be South
America. And sounding familiar to today,
the government had a deficit and they
had trouble meeting the deficit and
funding it. And so they figured they'd
make a lot of money if they created the
South Sea Company. People thought it was
a get-richquick scheme, so they jumped
on board and they traded it. But as I
read the book, I saw things going on and
I said, "This is what's happening
today." People were leaving their jobs
to trade in the stock of the South Sea
Company and so forth. People were
quitting their jobs in 99 to day trade
in the tech stocks. It felt exactly the
same. So I turned a skeptical eye toward
what was going on, what was called the
TMT bubble. tech, media, telecom, but it
was really the internet bubble and the
e-commerce bubble. Everybody said,
"Well, the internet's going to change
the world." And as a consequence, any
internet stock is worth infinity. We
look today and we see that the internet
certainly has changed the world. We
can't imagine a world without the
internet. And yet, I think the vast
majority of the stocks from that time
are worthless. So, it's a cautionary
tale. But anyway, that caused me to
write the memo. And as the last
paragraph which you read indicates, I
make these statements with considerable
trepidation. As I said, standing in
front of a freight train, the market's
roaring ahead and you say it's
irrational and it's not going to last.
If you don't have some fear when you do
that, there's something wrong with you.
>> Well, you have to accept being wrong for
a few months, few years perhaps.
>> That doesn't mean you have to be happy
with the idea. There's an old saying, I
think the first of the greatest sayings
that I learned in the early 70s was that
being too far ahead of your time is
indistinguishable from being wrong. If
you say something's going to happen and
it doesn't happen for 3 or 4 years,
you're wrong. Now, it may happen after 6
or 8 years. And if anybody's still alive
or if you're alive, they may say, "Well,
yes, I guess he was right." But you have
to be willing to be wrong and to look
wrong for a long time.
>> Well, this one got attention cuz it was
proved right pretty quickly. But also I
think your definition of a bubble one
based on investor psychology rather than
spreads P numbers I mean for most people
out there a P ratio of 50 means nothing
a spread of 200 means nothing but you
say instead look around you spot the
sentiment and that's something that
resonates with everyone
>> as you have mentioned Harry that
emphasis on investor psychology is one
of the primary threads that has run
through the memos in the last 35 years
because I think it's the thing that the
layman has the hardest time
understanding the role of psychology.
They think it's about numbers and
dollars and financial statements and
things, but in the shortest run, it's
not. Ben Graham, who was Warren
Buffett's teacher, said that in the long
run, the market is a weighing machine.
It figures out what things are worth,
but in the short run, it's a voting
machine, and it just reaches the
conclusion about what's popular. So,
bubble.com put the memos on the map. The
next big crisis, seven or eight years
later, the global financial crisis.
Again, I'll read an excerpt from quite a
timely memo, Race to the Bottom, written
in February 2007. When I was reading
back through this, I realized it's
actually Valentine's Day 2007.
>> Well, that's what Nancy got for
Valentine.
>> So, this is February the 14th, 2007.
Investors are readily accepting
significant risk in the form of
heightened leverage, untested
derivatives, and weak deal structures. 5
6 months later, we know what happened
next. You know, you were warning in the
years up to the crash, but actually
what's interesting is when the crash
happens, you say, "Actually, maybe we're
too negative now. Maybe now we go out
and buy." Your memos flip in turn and
that was your message at Oak Tree as
well. Maybe this is a buying opportunity
now.
>> Well, if one of the most important
common threads in the markets is that
people make mistakes at the extremes.
They get too excited when things go well
and too depressed when things go poorly,
then it's very important to be a
contrarian at the extremes. I think
somehow or other it comes naturally to
me. Somehow it just seems to me like I
kind of tend to think of investing as
jiu-jitsu where you use the force of
your enemy against it. And if the enemy,
which is to say the rest of investors
are applying excessive force
optimistically, then we let that happen
and we sell them things at prices they
shouldn't pay but that we're happy to
receive and so forth. So I think this
contra aspect is a very important
component of dealing with the
psychology. And what was your message
internally at Oak Tree at the time?
>> Well, I think it was the same that
actually on Monday, I came across a
treasure trove of internal memos from
that period. And I basically sent one
out in '08 after the bankruptcy of
Lebanon when people were predicting the
meltdown of the financial sector saying,
"We're okay. Don't worry. It's scary,
but we're in better shape than most."
>> And your punch line was if it really is
as bad as everybody thinks, the world is
over anyway and it doesn't matter. And
well, why not buy then? But if the world
doesn't end and we didn't buy, then we
missed the chance.
>> We'd regret it.
>> We didn't do our job.
>> So these crises naturally punctuate your
writings. But if there's one concept
that underpins most is risk, did you set
out thinking every memo should focus on
risk? I should be the expert. Or is it
just natural the way it comes?
>> I think Harry that themes, common
threads that have developed were never
an intention to let's mention risk in
every third memo or something like that.
It's just that I think risk is the most
important thing in my book. The most
important thing, there are three
chapters out of 20 dedicated to risk.
The most important thing is
understanding risk, recognizing risk,
and managing risk. I think that it's the
ability to manage risk that separates
the excellent investor from the rest.
It's not hard to make money. That's
especially true when the market goes up
and the market goes up seven or eight
years out of every 10 or more.
So, making money isn't a challenge.
making it with the risks under control
so that when the bad times come, you
don't get carried out. That's an
accomplishment. So, we've always had an
emphasis on that. It's always been
tenant number one in Oak Tre's
investment philosophy. It still is
something that I think distinguishes us.
>> You're proud of the way we've embodied
that over the last 30 years.
>> Yeah. And I would say that we're not
risk mongers. And so we don't really
shoot the lights out in boom times, but
I think our best relative performance
compared to our competitors and the
markets has come in the bad times. And
lastly, let me say you can't maintain a
certain posture and then in a timely
manner switch to a defensive posture and
just be right when the stuff hits the
fan. You have to have defense embodied
in everything you do. and to be able to
embody defense at the same time you're
trying to make money if things go well.
That to me is the accomplishment.
>> So following the financial crisis, we
had this fairly odd period where debt
was cheap, defaults were low, a
frustrating period for oakry in many
ways.
>> I mean this is a competitive sport and
we largely take advantage of other
people's mistakes. people, they do
buyouts and they pile a company on with
more debt than it can support in a bad
period. And so the debt crashes and
we're contrarian enough to buy it up
when it gets cheap enough and make
money. It's all being contrarian. But of
course, being contrarian is not enough.
You have to be right. You have to do it
at the right time with regard to the
right things. And that's what we're all
about. And the memos are all about
talking about those opportunities. When
the economy is doing well and the market
is rising and everybody's sanguin and
nobody's distressed and nobody feels any
urgency to unload their positions and
everybody thinks that if they just hold
it another week they'll make some more
money. Then how is the opportunist
supposed to get a great buy in? The
answer is you can't. There are times
when we can't excel and sometimes
they'll last a long time like from 2010
to 2019. The economy rose gradually but
for a long time the markets rose
gradually but for a long time financing
was readily available. Troubled
companies weren't tested over levered
companies weren't tested and so we had
relatively little to do. And you have to
be able to sit on your hands and as
Buffett says you got to be able to stand
at the plate with the bat in your hands
and not swing until you get a good
pitch. And sometimes you have to wait a
long time for a good pitch. We waited
and then COVID happened and this was the
ultimate illustration of uncertainty
which you've written so much about. I
have a quote from uncertainty 1, not
uncertainty 2 for anybody who might get
them confused. This is May 2020 and you
wrote a muchneeded reminder amid the
chaos of the pandemic. To put it simply,
intellectual humility means saying I'm
not sure the other person could be right
or even I might be wrong. I think it's
an essential trait for investors. I know
it is and the people I like to associate
with. Intellectual humility. Well, I
mean, again, people who are 100% sure
that they're right are not that much fun
to be around. And I think they're often
wrong. And one of my favorite quotes is
from Mark Twain, who said, "It ain't
what you don't know that gets you into
trouble. It's what you know for certain
that just ain't true." And if you have a
strongly held belief, and you bet
heavily on it, and it turns out to be
wrong, that's how you get into trouble.
No sentence that starts with I could be
wrong, but or I don't know, but ever got
anybody into big trouble. So I think
that intellectual humility is a very
important thing. No one is diminished by
saying I don't know. I think that when
you are in an important meeting and you
say I don't know. I think people think
more highly of you not less and they
know that your ego is in check and your
mentality is strong and maybe you'll
come to right answers. There are certain
threads that run through them. One is
humility with regard to knowledge of the
future. And I wrote a memo 25 years ago
plus or minus called us and them talking
about there are two schools of thought.
The I know school and the I don't know
school and which one do you want to be a
member of? The I know school certainly
sounds more self- assured and is more
likely to take bold action which if
blessed with good luck ends up on the
front page. But those actions, if bold
enough and poorly timed enough, will get
you carried out. And you don't hear from
those people again. And that leads to
another of my sayings. Never forget the
person who was 6' tall who drowned
crossing the stream that was 5t deep on
average. If you say, "I'm 6t tall. The
stream's 5t deep." Fine. And you go
about crossing it cavalerely. If you get
to a low spot, you might drown. And if
companies lever up and take on too much
debt because using debt magnifies their
profitability in the good times, they
might get to a spot in the stream where
they can't get through with all those
rocks in their backpack, all that debt,
and they get carried out.
>> Is there a shorefire way for the I don't
know school to generate alpha? They need
skill and efficiency. It's not easy,
right? knows there's no shorefire way of
anything because I can tell you you have
to do this and this and this and this
and this and you can do those things but
there's no substitute for the fact that
you have to do them well. You have to do
them better than anybody else. If you do
things and everybody else does them
equally well, you're not going to
outperform. That's obvious. And so you
can approach these decisions with a good
framework for thought, but in the end
you have to execute them with superior
insight. When Colombia asked me for the
first chapter of my book, The Most
Important Thing, for some reason, I sat
down and wrote out a chapter I had never
thought about, which is called Second
Level Thinking, which says that if
you're going to outperform others, you
have to outthink others. It's pretty
obvious that if you're going to
outperform them, you can't think the
same. You have to think different. But
just thinking different isn't enough.
You have to think different and better.
And since we practice an intellectual
humility, we know that the people we're
competing against aren't stupid. So the
task of thinking different and better is
a daunting task, but it's the only thing
you can do if you want to be superior in
your performance. So you have to take on
that task or as TB would say, become a
dentist.
I think it's confounded as well
particularly in judging performance by
one of your other big beliefs that you
can't judge the quality of a decision
from its outcome. What might look like a
great performance result you have to ask
how did you get there?
>> And that makes it tricky I guess from
the allocator side from people trying to
judge different managers trying to see
if they really did have alpha. You can't
necessarily trust that outcome. You need
to look at the process.
>> Well part of intellectual humility is
awareness of the role of luck. You see,
you might get very excited because
you've recently made five decisions
properly, but then you should say,
"Well, just a minute. I was right, but
did I make the decision for reasons that
turned out to be right or did I make it
for wrong reasons and get lucky? Or was
it a random event that nobody could
figure it out in advance and it just
happened to go my way?" So the person
who is not intellectually humble takes
full credit for all of his successes and
finds it very easy to dismiss all of
failures. Well, that was just bad luck.
It wasn't my fault. You know, I didn't
make a bad decision. I just got hit with
the unlucky stick. But you have to
understand the limits on intellect, the
limits on fornowledge. How hard it is to
really be smarter than others. And yet,
if we're not in some way, it's an
oversimplified term, but if we're not
smarter than others, we're not going to
outperform because we buy the things
they want to sell us. We have to be the
ones who are right in buying. They have
to be the ones who are wrong in selling.
If it's the other way around, we're in
trouble.
>> It's a zero- sum game. Somebody has to
make a mistake,
>> right? It's a zero- sum game. So, in the
long run, we have to think better. And
this hearkens to the book Fooled by
Randomness, which is an important one by
Tab, who I mentioned a couple of minutes
ago. You have to understand the role of
luck. You have to understand the
illegitimacy of short-term performance
records because anything can happen in
the short run in fields that are
affected by randomness like we are.
>> And you're quite open. You've done
pretty well. Would you say luck has
played a role in it?
>> Oh, absolutely. Sure. I was just talking
with somebody earlier this week about my
I was going to say career decisions, but
my first few career steps were not the
result of decisions on my part. Somebody
else made decisions that affected me and
they worked out well.
>> Go and see what high yield bonds are.
>> Go and see if you can figure out what a
high bond is. Yeah. Or the fact that I
applied for a job which probably would
have been a bad job, but I didn't get it
because the partner in charge of the
firm called my apartment but gave the
job to my roommate.
I thought it was bad luck at the time.
Uh but it turns out to have been good
luck.
>> Did the roommate do okay?
>> Okay. Okay. Well, that's something then.
in the 2020 prime pandemic year. That
was your most productive year. You were
writing away. How was that experience
for you?
>> Well, number one, we didn't have
anything else to do. Couldn't go out of
the house. Couldn't go to the movies.
Couldn't go to restaurant. Number two,
things were coming out of Fast and
Furious. As my mother used to say, if
you have your thinking cap turned on,
what could be more stimulating than to
go through an experience which is
unprecedented?
There was no precedent in our lifetimes
in over a hundred years for the
pandemic. There was one in 1917, but
everything was different then. There was
no electronic this or the mechanical
that. So there was no communication
transportation and certainly no
investing as we know it. So figuring out
what the developments in the world meant
and what we should do about them was
fascinating. Figuring out what we knew
and what we didn't know.
>> I was going to say the discourse at the
time must have been quite annoying for
you because there was an awful lot of
speculation based on not much evidence.
It was people forecasting with
variables. they the variables probably
weren't even right they were putting
into their models to forecast
>> well and not only was the data wrong but
they probably were asking about the
wrong parameters but in my first memo in
the pandemic in very early March of 20 I
was fortunate to quote a epidemiologist
from Harvard named Lipitch who said that
normally when we make decisions we have
three things we have past data we have
analogous past experiences and we have
supposition but in that case we didn't
have any data and we didn't have any
analogous prior experiences. All we had
was supposition. This epitomized the
decision-making challenge because you
have to make decisions. But you have
little to base them on. So you have to
figure out if I do this, could it go
well? Could it do poorly? If it goes
well, what could I make? If it goes
poorly, what could I lose? Those kinds
of things. And we make our decisions by
extrapolating past patterns. There was
no past pattern in this case. And
assigning probabilities to the outcomes.
We had no basis on which to do that but
we had to do something. So I think that
the key is to not be among the people
who exaggerate the situation and panic
well you have to assert reason even if
there's limit basis on which to do so
rather than let your emotions take over.
>> So as we left the pandemic we met an old
enemy inflation and we had the interest
rate increases we've been waiting for
for a while. You you set the tone with
sea change which was huge a few years
ago. I will read an analogy of the
moving walkway, which I'm sure you
remember. You wrote that investors over
the last 40 years were on a moving
walkway carried along by declining
interest rates. The results have been
great, but I doubt many people fully
understand where they came from. It
seems to me that a significant portion
of all the money investors made over
this period resulted from the tailwind
generated by the massive drop in
interest rates. I consider it nearly
impossible to overstate the influence of
declining rates over the last four
decades. You wrote that a few years ago,
but it's fair to say we're still
adjusting to that paradigm.
>> Yeah. Basically, what I said is that if
you came into this business after 1980,
which is almost everybody today, all
you've seen is either declining interest
rates or ultra- low interest rates or
both. When people human nature is that
when you live through a period, people
tend to think that's normal and
extrapolated into the future. And all I
said in December of 22 was that the Fed
had taken the Fed funds rate from zero
to five and a quarter, five and a half,
and that we weren't going back to zero
or to a half or to one. And that that's
not normal. And normal is rates are
stableish
with variation in the mid single digits.
Now that's a simple statement but so
different from the prevailing history.
Declining interest rates are good for
asset values. Declining interest rates
reduce the cost of capital. So people
who use borrowed money to buy assets got
a double bonanza. Strategies like
private equity were invented during that
period. So it shouldn't come as a
surprise that they worked very well. But
if the environment is going to be
different, maybe different things will
work better. I've been thinking lately
about what is the decision, what is the
error that investors commit the most
often and in the biggest way with the
most detrimental effect. And I think the
answer is they believe that the things
that are going on will always go on and
they extrapolate to infinity as opposed
to expecting regression toward the mean.
>> You should change your posture for a
different environment.
>> Yeah. Well, Einstein said the definition
of insanity is doing the same thing over
and over again and expecting a different
result. But I said that another
definition of insanity is doing the same
thing in a new environment and expecting
the same result. And one thing we should
know as investor is that the environment
in which you act will determine the
success of your actions. That's a fancy
way of saying that if you buy when
prices are low, you'll probably make
money, but if you buy when prices are
high, you'll have a more difficult time
doing so. You have to understand, and I
wrote a memo once called it is what it
is. And the one thing we have to do as
investors and as people is we have to
accept the world we're living in as a
given. And the investor can't say, I
don't like today's environment because
everybody is sanguin, which means there
are no bargains. I want bargains. Well,
you can't demand a different
environment. It is what it is.
>> You just take more risk would be your
option.
>> Well, you could take more risk, but if
taking more risk in a sanguin
environment when perspective returns are
low, I don't recommend.
>> So, post sea change environment, credit
more of a role in the portfolio than it
was for that 2011.
>> Yeah. Well, at the beginning of '09, the
Fed took the Fed funds rate to zero to
battle the global financial crisis. And
at the end of 21, they gave up on
inflation being transitory and started
to raise the rate in 22. And from the
beginning of '09 to the end of 21,
13-year period, the Fed funds rate was
zero most of the time and averaged about
a half a percent. And it was a very
tough time for lenders and Oak Tree.
That's what we do. We're basically
lenders. If you go back three and a half
years to the beginning of 22, high yield
bonds yielded four. That's not a very
big number. So our strategies were not
that helpful to them. And we went
through a very quiet period. And the
other thing we do is we take advantage
of other people's unease when they want
to get out of their positions. Nobody
was uneasy. Everybody was comfortable
and sanguin and confident that if they
held they would make money. So for 7 8 n
years I would title my regular speech
investing in a low return world. We were
in a low return world. How do you make
good returns in a low return world? The
answer is it can't be easy. And one of
your choices is to do what you
suggested, which is raise your risk, but
everything is offering very low returns,
even risky things. They may be higher
than the safe things, but their
perspective returns are anemic. That's
not the time to do those things. You
have to sit on your hands. You have to
be patient. Bring us up to the present
day, your most recent memo, calculus of
value. New thinking on the relationship
between price and value and the the
magnetic influence we see over time.
relevant perhaps as we look at equity
valuations today which are pretty
frothy.
>> Well, I'd say they seem pretty frothy,
but we look at valuations and we use
numbers and we look the main valuation
in the equity business is the PE ratio.
The ratio of the price of a stock to the
earnings of the company which are
attributable to each share of the stock.
You take all the earnings, divide by the
number of shares, you get the earnings
per share. You look at that price as a
multiple of that and you say whether
that stock is cheap priced high or low
relative to history, relative to peers
and so forth. And right now the PE ratio
on the S&P is probably 24 and the PE
ratio historically has been about 2/3 of
that. So you'd have to say looks
expensive. Is it really expensive? Well,
have the companies improved? Are the
companies better? If the companies are
better, then maybe 24 isn't too high.
But the trouble is that in frothy times,
people always say the companies are
better. Every bubble, if we want to use
that word, is created when people say,
"This time it's different. This time the
companies are better." And so the old
value, yes, it looks like they're
selling at high valuations, but the
history is irrelevant because the
companies are so much better now.
>> This time it's different.
>> This time it's different. Is a great way
to get into trouble.
What response do you hope to elicit with
the memos as we look back at 35 years of
them?
>> I guess if I can be perfectly honest,
what I want people to say is, "Hey, that
guy's pretty smart."
And I want them to say, you know, I
never thought of it that way. If I can
get people to say that they looked at
something differently and maybe my way
of looking at it holds water, then I've
been successful.
>> Do you have a final remark before we
finish for the day? I'll just say that
I'm going to keep writing and if people
will continue to read and continue to
give me the benefit of their responses,
I'll keep going.
Great place to end. Thank you very much,
Howard.
[Applause]
[Music]
This podcast expresses the views of the
author as of the date indicated and such
views are subject to change without
notice. Oak tree has no duty or
obligation to update the information
contained herein. Further, Oak Tree
makes no representation and it should
not be assumed that past investment
performance is an indication of future
results. Moreover, wherever there is a
potential for profit, there is also the
possibility of loss. This podcast is
being made available for educational
purposes only and should not be used for
any other purpose. The information
contained herein does not constitute and
should not be construed as an offering
of advisory services or an offer to sell
or solicitation to buy any securities or
related financial instruments in any
jurisdiction. Certain information
contained herein concerning economic
trends and performances based on or
derived from information provided by
independent third-party sources. Oakree
Capital Management LP Oaktree believes
that the sources from which such
information has been obtained are
reliable. However, it cannot guarantee
the accuracy of such information and has
not independently verified the accuracy
or completeness of such information or
the assumptions on which such
information is based. This podcast,
including the information contained
herein, may not be copied, reproduced,
republished, or posted in whole or in
part in any form without the prior
written consent of Oakree.
>> Audiation
