Hey everyone, this is uh Aaron Philback
here at Kai Association. I am joined by
Rob Alf who is managing director of
alternative investments at PCAN. Rob,
thanks so much for joining the
conversation today.
>> Thanks for having me. Appreciate it.
>> Awesome. Well, Rob, let let's talk about
liquid alternatives, which um has been
maybe a dead zone for a for a number of
years, particularly in the later part of
the 2010s, but seems to have gone
through a bit of a resurgence uh over
the past uh 18 24 months in terms of of
interest. So when you look at kind of
this this space uh we're sitting right
around a trillion um in assets under
management across things like uh
modified non-traditional investments,
true diversifying strategies and the
semi-liquid uh fund space. Uh but I want
to focus mostly on diversifying
strategies or the old hedge fund- like
strategies that exist in liquid alts uh
rappers. And maybe the first question to
you, Rob, is are we finally in an
environment where liquid alternatives
can actually deliver on the promise uh
that they have uh promised or is this a
bit of a false start?
>> Yeah, I mean it's it's it's kind of a
mixed question, right? You can attack it
from from both angles. Do we have the
right talent out there? Um, investing,
you know, with this the liquid,
semi-liquid, uh, strategies
in macro, in multistrategy, managed
futures, long short, what have you to
actually produce a return that's not
just a kind of a
factor based uh, you know, betas from
somewhere else? and is this an
opportunity in the in the space in terms
of does inflation matter? Do do rates
matter? Does global uncertainty matter?
Um, and I think the answer is yes. I
mean, you have to just like any other
time in in history, do the work and and
find the uh the managers and the
strategies that that that work to uh get
to your goal. And our goal, which is
different than ever, but might be
different than others, is really to
provide something that get an
equity-like return somewhere between
equity and bonds with less volatility
and low correlation to the markets. I
mean, quote unquote a diversifying
liquid strategy, right? Um, and
not try to solve the world's problems
with with this one investment. And I
think if you go about it in the right
way and you're taking your time and
you're actually evaluating these
strategies for what they are in terms of
where do they fit in your portfolio,
there's quite a few strategies out there
that are quietly besting the returns,
the riskadjusted returns of even some
great multi strategy funds out there in
the hedge fund space. um whether that we
could go manager by manager and talk
through that or or you know we can go
about it different ways but you know I
don't think it's a big secret that these
big multi strategy pod shops
could probably liquidate 95% of their
portfolio tomorrow if they needed to yet
now we're paying entry fees we're we're
on weight lists we're getting kind of
private equity draw down type of styles
and you know it's going to take you
about two years to get your money back
even if you want it and probably with
the pen penalty, you know. Meanwhile,
quietly
groups from AQR, Black Rockck, uh, and
others are out there really creating
excellent risk adjusted returns,
volatility, half of that of the S&P 500,
sharp ratios,
you know, um,
OnePlus, uh, at least short-term and
really with low beta. And so you've got
a lot of people kind of doing their job
in a portfolio, which is to provide that
that equity-like exposure without being
equity um and um in a high risk adjusted
fashion. So,
we don't like to uh tell everyone
exactly where to go, but certainly
there's some people on on the list that
um you know either came from a hedge
fund, they uh at least were taught the
the math of a hedge fund and are really
applying a lot of those strategies out
there for everyone to get into. Um I
think there's
um
there seems to be kind of this new new
thought around especially in the ETF
space you see it a lot more that people
are willing to try stuff and maybe you
know the next simplify fund won't be the
latest and greatest and may not work but
they're out there trying to deploy money
in strategies um that are aiming really
to diversify the exposures to equities
and bonds and do it in their own in
their own riskadjusted uh way And it's
it's not it's not a it's not time lost
when you're when you're out there
looking at these and at least uh
thinking about do they merit inclusion
in my portfolio. So Rob, uh maybe not
manager by manager, but if as you think
about categories of types of strategies
that you find more viable um in a
client's portfolio versus not, are there
places that you're more interested in uh
currently in kind of the liquid alts
rapper versus ones that maybe you stay
away from or you have a little bit more
uh scrutiny towards?
Yeah, I would I would say that
most of
well I mean it's a good question. Um
fundamentally I'd like to find a good
multi strategy core portfolio. you know,
there's always um in any size portfolio
either just a need for some anchor, some
bastion of liquidity, you know, in a in
a multi- strategy uh portfolio. Uh and
having something that you can really be
comfortable with going, okay, well, this
may be 5% of my largest client
portfolio, but it may be 100% of that uh
that trust account they have for their
redheaded stepchild, right? um having
something that you can depend on from a
standalone basis to generate a strong
riskadjusted return day in and day out
independent of the equity markets and
what's going on out there in the world.
Um past that, you know, really what I
try to do is
go out go out there with the lens of I'm
not trying to fill an event driven
strategy out there. I'm not going out
there going pray to God I can find
somebody who does event driven really
well out there. By the way, there are
people out there that do that really
well in the semi-liquid space. But I'm
going to go out there and try to find
the best talent. And where does that
talent fall? Does it fall in multi
strategy? Does it fall in long short
equity? Does it fall in event driven?
But, you know, accept that you're not
going to go to every subasset class of
the, you know, HFRI as defined by the
HFRI sub indices and find an excellent
manager there in the liquid space. But
you know if you do your work you you can
certainly find some options in uh in
various places that are that are quite
quite compelling.
>> So R let's talk about doing the work a
little bit. So you know if you look 10
years ago versus today and I I realize
the mix of what's available has stayed
the same in some places has have changed
in others. But how has the the the
criteria changed for you in terms of
what you look for to evaluate success?
what you actually think is going to be a
good strategy. Um, given that we've had,
you know, this this ramp up in AUM
throughout the 2010s, we had some wash
out as some of these uh were
rationalized uh by the asset management
community and now we've got some new
launches coming in. I would I would
think that the threshold would be a bit
higher. Uh, but how do you kind of think
about that and how has that changed in
your underwriting process?
Yeah, it's a great question because I
mean if you if you take it back into
that long time period, you almost have
really round one, here are all the
strategies that came out in that time
period, you know, around uh GFC and um
uh all of the all of the advents that
the kind of liquid alts came with there.
And then you'd kind of have where are we
now? And I would say the biggest thing I
learned between those two periods is
look at the strategy, understand the
actual underlying the underpinnings of
the investment and their process. But at
the end of the day, ask yourself really
really important question. Can they make
money? Because a lot of strategies can
be can be elegant and can be beautiful
and can make sense and you know you look
back and you go well that actually just
made me uh risk-free plus right you know
like can you run a market neutral
strategy without use saying the the you
know the four-letter word of leverage
right I mean no I mean you really can't
use an arbitrage strategy without
employing leverage which is the actual
technique in which it was created, you
know, and how it was supposed to be
implemented in the first place. And so I
think the first round of a lot of liquid
strategies got that wrong. Like, oh
well, we're going to take what we do in
our hedge fund or what we did in a hedge
fund, you know, back in the day and
we're going to do the same thing. We're
just not going to employ any leverage.
It's like, well, that's that's great.
That's just a really expensive T bill,
you know, at the end of the day. And so,
which does one job. It adds, I guess,
diversification and lack of correlation
to the S&P or what have you. Um, but it
doesn't really make clients money. And
so I really kind of push that pretty
hard in and really any analysis I do or
any of the analysts do here that, you
know, make sure that it's actually going
to generate a meaningful rate of return.
Um, past that, you know, you have to be
mindful of
where are they in their evolution? Do
they actually have what it takes um to
be a manager these days in terms of
distribution, in terms of capacity, in
terms of uh you know, while you want the
head PM on every call with you forever,
I mean, you know, just selfishly, that's
not a sustainable business model because
if he's talking to me, he's talking to
everybody else. And if he's not if he's
talking to everybody else, then he's
probably not has his eye on the
portfolio. and if they only have five
people in the company, let's just go
ahead and draw some conclusions that
maybe someone's eyes not on the ball.
And certainly you see that happening all
the time. You see it degrade in
performance. You you you see those you
see those um and then you kind of
ultimately get to a shuttering and you
know here we are again. So right you saw
as early I mean I can think of examples
this year where that's happened. So
>> that would be my biggest um and I think
obviously there's got to be some
rationalization around um the comfort
level with with fees and that's
something that I've never really had
took much of an issue with just because
of being in the private side of the
market so often that right it's there's
there's never a I never get done with
kind of doing that operational analysis
on a on a fund and be like oh my gosh
this is a great deal you know it's Not
it's an expensive deal, right? You know,
smart people cost a lot of money,
leverage costs money, top tier service
providers costs money, right?
Distribution, etc., etc. So, be
comfortable with what you're doing and
and make sure that you um that it's
defendable and that it's reasonable in
the context of of the investment that
you're making.
>> So,
>> yeah.
>> Uh Rob, I I'd also be curious in terms
of um industry positioning. So um you
know you mentioned uh some of these
strategies being defensible and I I
remember uh in the liquid alt's heyday
you know a lot of these strategies came
across your desk and promising the moon
it was the equity like returns bond-l
like risk um you know don't worry about
it these are going to be you know the
saving grace for your portfolio and I
feel like that that has gone away to
some degree uh given some of the wash
out that we've seen but you know as more
interest grows more creative product uh
also grows and more creative marketing
and positioning grows. So, how do you
kind of assess where the industry is in
terms of positioning these products uh
as they come across your desk today
versus maybe the 1.0 uh that you
described post GFC?
>> I don't know. I think there's almost a
bifurcation
in some in some respects, right? I mean,
you know, you do have these these
strategies that are right. you think of
like the Tesla ETFs and things like that
and some of the covered uh call
strategies and and other kind of options
uh related strategies that we don't
really fare in. So I won't comment much
more on that but um
but that is I guess kind of my comment
right that we don't so they're not
really made for us because that's not
really how we think about um allocating
allocating assets and and and uh our
risk budgeting but there's obviously a
buyer out there. Um, and I think if you
do find the groups that are really kind
of made for us that that that have the
the risk return, the team, all of the
things we talked about, um, the
infrastructure,
and you go in there with that kind of
mindset from like an institutional
mindset,
looking at an institutional track
record, you're going to get kind of that
institutional
feel, right? I mean, they're they're
going to have um you know, you're going
to have access to the right people.
You're going to be able to ask the hard
questions and get the right answers. If
you ask them a quantitatively oriented
question, you're not going to get their
run-of-the-mill answer for, you know,
your run-of-the-mill uh advisor. You're
going to get that answer you want. And
I've seen it both ways, right? I've seen
it um you know, on one end kind of
having to pull that out of somebody who
was quite capable of doing it. And then
I've had others who are just unprepared
because they've actually gotten to that
point where they're talking to a
different audience. Um
that's that's certainly uh a difference
there. Um
but I think I I I think
ultimately time will tell, right? I know
there's there's lots of compelling long
short strategies out there. There's lots
of multi strategy options out there.
There's some great managed future
strategies out there um that I, you
know, we don't uh employ, but um there's
also things that are kind of in boxes
that are
hard to present to kind of the mass
audience and in terms of how they fit.
And I'll give you like examples of, you
know, strategies that will
layer in managed futures with an S&P
type of overlay or something along those
lines. So you're kind of getting this
equity plus type of return with this
uncorrelated alpha
which is great but you're making two big
assumptions there. One that I want S&P
exposure in this way not in a tax
efficient way that we currently manage
and two that I buy that this is
uncorrelated alpha um and that I can
actually fit this somehow in my you know
uh portfolio that has 40 other line
items. Right? So, there's a lot of
things that out of the box sound good
and I like them, but can I buy them in a
fund or an ETF? Probably not. It's
probably something, you know, that it's
going to actually have to be more
nuanced. And so, I don't know if those
strategies, you know, if those will work
and they're certainly popular, right? I
know that, um, you know, groups like
Abby and things have done well. AQR's
just released some new strategies on
that on that, uh, side of the business
as well. So, time will tell. Um
but again I I do think it goes back to
that at least people are trying you know
at least people are going hey you know
we see this we we understand you know
this is why we think it's a good idea um
if it works for your portfolio and it
can be a sustainable business for us
then great right you know um but there's
also like okay it's not so let's move on
um in in certain groups and let's not
like actually carry that baggage of
quote unquote failure because this
didn't catch on because it wasn't a it
wasn't a bad idea. It's just can it be,
you know, supplied to the masses and in
a in that type of structure. So,
>> sure. Uh Rob, I want to ask you two
final questions both on structure and
rapper. So you you've talked a little
bit about the ETF rapper and I remember
you know mutual funds uh replicating
hedge fund strategies was controversial
at the time and now we're kind of moving
into the daily liquid um space with ETFs
trying to replicate these as well. So
one is is around ETFs uh and kind of the
applicability of using that rapper to
offer these strategies. curious your
thoughts on is this kind of the same
conversation around mutual funds or are
there some unique considerations on the
ETF rapper? I think there's some unique
considerations really on the ETF rapper
because one, let's just let's just uh
keep in mind that
these these strategies are not generally
blessed for their tax efficiency.
And so, you know, an ETF obviously has a
leg up there in terms of tax efficiency
uh from at least a client experience.
So, there's that. Uh, two,
if the greatest multistrategy hedge fund
like ETF had a five-year track record,
we'd be talking about it right now. And
we're not, right? Because to find those
gems, you're usually going out and and
and finding somebody who has an
interesting one-year track record, doing
some research going, "Hey, this guy used
to work at Citadel or Bridgewwater, and
they're out here trying to employ this
in this format, and they've got some
they've got a history that I can
actually look at and evaluate and go,
"Hey, is this guy, you know, is he is he
worth something?" And to do that, you
really have to sacrifice returns in
terms of you actually don't have any
returns to kind of gauge in the ETF. And
you probably have to make some decisions
about, well, you know, should I be
taking a client risk on a $50 million
ETF? Is that something that's actually
uh a smart thing to do? And more
importantly, if I do that, can I get out
of it without really blowing up
somebody's business? And so I I do think
that comes into play a lot in ETFs. I do
think um it's a lot more interesting in
terms of how you can kind of
how ETFs are packaged and sold. Now, in
terms of well, if it's a futuresbased
strategy, you know, you go in there and
kind of tell people when you're going
and when you're doing it, when to expect
this money, and if you're deploying this
via futures or options or or what have
you, you can really do that without
really disrupting
the uh the overall business, the
overall, you know, uh risk return uh in
any given day. And so, in that respect,
just the evolution of that asset class
has made it has made it easier to think
about um structurally. Um, I can't say
that we've done that a lot, but it's
certainly um something that I'm willing
to to evaluate on a on a ongoing basis.
So, I think those are the the best. I
mean, I I think any any strategy there
that you're going to recognize new,
there's there's very few in here that
kind of change their change their
stripes midcourse um that that all of a
sudden you're like looking at something
that does have a 10-year track record.
And I'll think of a good example is like
Black Rock's global market neutral fund,
right? For whatever eight years of its
life, it had kind of a fair to Midland
return stream. And then all of a sudden,
you start seeing these kind of outsized
returns with the same risk return
characteristics. Um that's a
that's BDMIX.
And I want to go figure out why. And the
answer is of course um leverage, right?
They started employing leverage on a
market neutral strategy and obviously
returns increase. But you don't see many
of those happen, right? Okay. There's
not a lot of those that out there in the
market that just suddenly kind of change
their stripes and are and are better.
>> Got it. May maybe on a more radical uh
front, you know, we've seen a rise of
interest in tokenized assets and
tokenized funds as well. So, you know,
liquid alts is trying to democratize
access and I'd be curious, you know, if
you look in your 5 to 10 year crystal
ball, if tokenization takes off, does
this completely negate the liquid alts
industry and we actually get true
private markets and private hedge fund
um experiences in a tokenized rapper?
Um, and I guess what will be your
reaction to that thesis? Is that
interesting to you? Would you see that
happening? provided
the
compliance, security, overall risk,
protective bubble that we live in by
virtue of the SEC and FINRA and their
other governing bodies are still in
charge, right, of tokenization in terms
of its oversight. God, that made me
ecstatic, right? I mean, why why why
should investors out there have to be
accept kind of their lot in life, so to
speak, and they're not getting the
institutional hedge fund exposure that
they could be if they were just a little
bit bigger, you know, and that's that
really democratizes not only liquid, it
just democratizes the whole industry.
And you kind of take that to the
extension of look, we've got a we've got
a secondary private equity market that
screaming for tokenization. We have
things like ART that are already kind of
halfway tokenized. You've got groups
like Hamilton Lane in there. You've got
groups like Apollo out there offering
tokenized vehicles. Van um you've got a
lot of people working in that space and
it's really just like everything else in
the blockchain and in crypto.
Everybody's kind of waiting to see who's
going to win, right? And so, but there's
just no I mean, if you think about just
the onboarding
ease of use, and I I don't want to get
too too blockchainy here, but I mean,
that would really simplify a lot of
things provided, um,
right, we have the same regulatory
oversight that we need and are
accustomed to.
>> Yeah. Well, Rob, uh, this has been
great. Appreciate the time. You know,
this is a a resurging area of the
market, so I think getting a fresh
perspective is, uh, is always valuable.
So, thanks so much and uh thanks for
being a Kai member,
>> Erin. Thanks for having me and thanks
for being a Kai member yourself.
Appreciate everything you do.
>> Wonderful.
