Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives,
[music]
a podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale.
On [music] today's episode, we step back
from transactions and trends to examine
a more fundamental question. Where are
we in the market cycle and how [music]
could that shape the way we invest?
Howard Marx joins Brookfield's Alper
Daglo Group for a thoughtful
conversation about [music] investor
psychology, risk positioning, and the
balance between offense [music] and
defense. Here's their conversation.
>> Hi everybody, I'm Albert Daglio.
I'm head of Brookfield Investment
Solutions Group and today I'm joined by
Howard Marks. Howard, great seeing you.
You often say we never know where we are
going. We surely should know where we
are. Before we get into specifics about
the market cycles, investments,
portfolios, I would love to start there.
Well, Albert, everybody in investment
business talks about where we're going.
They would like to know where we're
going. I would like to know where we're
going. It's just that it's not possible.
and actions taken in reliance on an
expectation of what's going to happen a
year or two from now are often wrong.
But we should know where we stand. And I
believe that where we stand has a lot to
do with what's coming up. Where are we
today? I think the most important thing
to bear in mind if you're interested in
managing your portfolio with short-term
or intermediate term considerations, you
can ignore this stuff if you say, "I'm
only interested in 20 years." But if you
care about the short to intermediate
term, short is one year or two,
intermediate is let's say up to three or
five. I think it's important to note
that in this market optimism is in the
ascendancy. I think that the main thing
that changes from week to week or month
to month or even year to year is the
level of optimism versus pessimism. When
optimism is riding high, prices are
probably high relative to intrinsic
value. Prospective returns are modest,
uncertainty, risk is relatively high and
that means we should behave in a more
cautious manner. When pessimism rules,
prices are probably very low relative to
intrinsic value. So that means we should
turn highly aggressive. That's the main
dimension on which I think about
managing money in the short to medium
term. Is it optimism or pessimism?
Should we be aggressive or defensive?
And I think that optimism after a very
rough 2022, optimism took over in the
fourth quarter. And as a consequence,
for the last 39 months, the markets have
been on a tear. The period 2345 for the
S&P 500 is, I think, the seventh best
3-year period out of the last 100.
Seventh out of a 100. And that tells us
what's going on. It has implications for
what's coming next. So I think that
investors should bear in mind that
today's market is dominated by optimism
that the world is unpredictable as usual
or maybe more so and some of the rapid
growth that we saw in the last half of
the 20th century because of recovery
from World War II, technological and
managerial advances, globalization,
etc. Some of those growth factors are
probably going to be less in the years
ahead. So if you sum up prevalent
optimism, unpredictability and maybe
moderate growth, I think you would say
you have to invest carefully and maybe
this isn't the time for sheer aggression
rather for an upgrading of
defensiveness. Sure. As investors, one
of our most important jobs we have is to
really understand the importance of
investment selection and risk
positioning. I think what you say risk
positioning piece it defined beautifully
but also as equally important there's
investment selection piece there as
well. Can you put those pieces together
for our audience like how you think
about that?
>> Well, one essential tradeoff in
investing is between offense and defense
and the other one is between return
maximization and enhancing
predictability.
Usually the things you do to maximize
return, you sacrifice on predictability.
The things you do to maximize reliable
outcomes, you have to give on
maximization of outcomes. That's a
trade-off. It's important to note that
just because we don't know what the
future holds doesn't mean we shouldn't
take action. But I think we should
emphasize events where the returns are
more predictable and maybe deemphasize
maximization of return. That's what
investment selection is all about.
Everybody wants high returns
predictably. It's just that they're
elusive and you generally have to decide
which of those factors to emphasize. And
the value investor, which is what I
think Brookfield and Oakree really are,
emphasizes investments where the
predictability comes from a superior
understanding of what the future holds
and specialization in a few areas.
non-reliance on shall we say speculative
technologies and intellectual property
and things like that. I think that those
are the important elements in investment
selection today. And going back to this
balance between offense and defense, you
wrote nobody knows really at the middle
of the global financial crisis. I think
the day was September 19, 2008 when
everything felt completely unknowable. I
remember personally sitting at my desk
feeling like the entire global financial
system is really collapsing and it's
like one after another there's a domino
effect. You always talk about how good
investing often feels uncomfortable and
also you make the point truly attractive
valuations appear in environments marked
by extreme fear, extreme uncertainty and
usually some forcelling. So in fact,
comfort and good investing, they don't
typically coexist. Can you talk about
that dynamic from your perspective?
>> Well, Alper, what you're asking about
leads to a great example of what I call
second level thinking. September 19th
of08, couple days after the layman
bankruptcy, was certainly one of the
most uncertain days in my 80 almost 80
years. The only thing comparable was
that the low point of the pandemic in
March of 2020 when the world was equally
uncertain and when I also wrote a memo
entitled nobody knows I recycled that
title.
>> Yes.
>> So the question is not is the future
foreseeable. Of course we think it never
is perfectly foreseeable and sometimes
even less than at other times. But when
people embody the feeling that you
described of hopelessness and abject
terror with the possibility that the
financial sector will melt down, their
negativity tends to make prices low
relative to intrinsic value. And it's
really the relationship between price
and intrinsic value that we want to key
on. It's obvious then when people love
things and feel good and are optimistic
and are happy and feel positive about
the future, prices are probably high.
When prices are high, prospective
returns are low and risk is high. So
when they feel the worst about the
environment, that's probably the moment
when the price is as low as it can be
relative to intrinsic value, meaning
that prospective returns are high and
risk is low. And one of the ways I put
it is that the riskiest thing in the
world is the belief that there's no
risk. So one of the safest things in the
world is the belief that risk is
everywhere because it puts prices so low
that risk is, shall we say, minimal. Now
let's talk about discomfort. If you
commit to spend money as we did on
September 19th and you're not
uncomfortable, there's something wrong
with you. It's only human to feel
uncomfortable when you're staring into
the abyss. But we have to do it anyway.
And in fact, it's more important to do
it that day than on the day we feel
great. We have to master the courage to
do our jobs. And what should make it
easier for us, if it can be made easier,
is the confidence to know that, as we
were on September 19th, we're the only
person in the world who will buy. and
everybody else wants to sell and isn't
that the perfect opportunity for the
buyer?
>> Well said. An investment that we make
feels easy or universally accepted. What
should that be telling about the price?
When people are terrified, prices are at
a minimum relative to intrinsic value.
It's all a buy. When people are
euphoric, carefree, prices are at a
maximum relative to intrinsic value. And
you have to be very cautious. If you
embody the same emotion or we may say
psychology or investor sentiment as
everybody else, then you will fluctuate
along with them. You'll buy at the top
of a bubble just like they do. That's
how bubble tops get formed. You'll sell
at the bottom of a crash. That's how
bottoms get formed. And you'll do no
better than the average investor. Our
goal is to do better than the average
investor. So we have to diverge from the
average investor. In fact, optimally, we
have to behave as contrarians. Buffett
says most things best. He says, "The
less prudence with which others conduct
their affairs, the greater the prudence
with which we must conduct our own
affairs." So, if you think about it,
it's nothing short of an oxymoron to say
this is a bargain price security that
everybody loves. When everybody loves
something, it's unlikely that it'll be
on the bargain counter. So if you're
thinking about investing it, you have to
be leerary of the elevated nature of
investor psychology. One of the most
popular discussion topics today is AI.
And most people think AI is going to
change the world. I'm confident that AI
will change the world. That's not the
question. The question is how, when,
with what impact, who will benefit. I
think it comes down to investment
selection. two investments especially
you touch on AI they're not created
equal and they don't have the same
journey and maybe another thing that you
always talk about the most important
thing is having the able to align
yourself with asset managers or other
participants who are specialized who
have done this before or who are cycle
tested in this type of assets and they
can still participate on the upside but
also your first principle thinking about
the risk management and also understand
the downside. And I think that's what
differentiate the good investing from
not good investing.
>> Well, look, we all have our biases. Some
of us are inherently aggressive. Some of
us are inherently defensive. I'm so
inherently defensive that I can't turn
to aggression until I believe that the
odds are overwhelmingly on my side. Each
of us has to, as they say in football,
play within ourselves. We have to do the
things that come naturally to us. The
chicken should not be assigned to do a
daredevil feed. And the daredevil should
not be assigned to carefully shepherd
money. And the client might choose to
hire some of each. And if they can find
a brilliant aggressive manager and a
brilliant defensive manager and put them
together, maybe the aggressiveness and
the defensiveness will offset or
diversify each other, but maybe they'll
end up with brilliance and that would be
a great way to go. So, as you say, all
investments are not created equal. And
you have to have a good idea of what you
want to accomplish. Not merely the fact
that you want to participate in AI, but
again with what balance of
aggressiveness and defensiveness? To me,
that question underlies everything you
ever do in investing, including or
starting with asset selection. power.
One of the themes that runs through your
memos and your investment philosophies
also is the power of truly long-term
investing. And from your experience,
what are the biggest obstacles that get
in the way of behaving truly long-term?
>> How much time do you have? [laughter]
>> That's the greatest question. It's
probably the most fun for me to answer,
but it it's a big question with a long
answer. Most of the elements of human
nature are designed to prevent us from
be good investors. When things are going
well, the economy is performing well,
companies are reporting record earnings,
stock prices are rising, people get more
excited and they want to buy more of
something until it reaches an apogee at
which they want to buy everything. When
things go poorly and the the news is
bleak and the prices are cascading
downward, they lose heart. They want to
sell. And when we approach what might
eventually turn out to be the bottom,
they want to sell everything. Well,
that's the opposite of what you should
do. You should buy low and sell high,
not buy high and sell low. But it's
against human nature. And if you get
depressed and your enthusiasm for
selling increases as prices fall, isn't
that the opposite of what we do in every
other walk of life? In every other walk
of life, we buy more when things go on
sale. In the markets, we sell more when
things go on sale. So this just
indicates the essentially wrong nature
of investor sentiment. And then again we
have what we call the nonlinear utility
function. Most people care a little
about a dollar made and a great deal
about a dollar lost. But exposing
yourself to the risk of loss is integral
in trying to have a good investment
return. So even though our investment
philosophy stresses risk control, we're
not talking about risk avoidance. We're
talking about intelligent bearing of
risk, but people's psyches are warped to
prevent them from viewing risk
objectively. You have to take some risk
in order to make money. So that's
another problem. So investor psychology,
human nature. Then we have something
called institutional constraints. So if
you're an employee, what we call an
agent, and your job is to manage
somebody else's money, what is your
payoff structure? You make a good
investment decision. you get a pat on
the back, handshake, maybe a raise, make
a bad investment decision, you get
fired. So that means that your
incentives are directed more at avoiding
losses than at achieving gains and maybe
to an extent which has a negative
impact. So you have to overcome the
institutional constraints. Dave Swinson,
who ran the endowment at Yale with great
success from 85 to 2020, said that
investment management requires
non-institutional behavior from
institutions, establishing a conundrum
that is not easily resolved. How can
institutional employees, agents act as
contrarians, act as knowing bearers of
risk for profit, and how can they
increase their order for buying as
prices fall rather than as they rise?
Then the third factor in addition to
investor psychology and institutional
constraints is volatility. When prices
fluctuate especially agents but even
principles get uncomfortable. So in the
investment industry as a whole there has
grown up over the last 50 years since I
attended University of Chicago a concept
which was developed at University of
Chicago which is that volatility is risk
and volatility is to be avoided. I think
that seeing prices fluctuate up and down
is part of life. It's not a negative in
itself. It's not to be avoided in
itself. And if you are wellunded, you
don't have to withdraw the money. You
can't get a sell order from your
clients. Then volatility in itself is
not to be avoided. And I think that the
excessive nature of the concern with
interim volatility is one of the
wrongest things about the investment
profession. Buffett again, Buffett says,
"I'd rather have a lumpy 15% return than
a smooth 12." And I would say to people,
if you'd rather have a smooth 12 than a
lumpy 15, you have to ask yourself
what's going on. Look, it reminds me the
one of the memo you wrote in I think
late 2022 called what really matters and
there you gave the example as a kid how
we are told don't just sit there do
something and in investing actually
probably you got to reverse that. Well,
you know, I wrote that memo in October
of 22 because I participated in a
conference where everybody's question
was, "Well, what month will the Fed stop
raising interest rates?" And I said,
"Why do you care? This doesn't matter.
What matters is whether we buy pieces of
companies that grow in value and whether
we lend money to companies that pay us
back." and what month the Fed is going
to stop cutting interest rates or
whether security prices rose by 1%
yesterday or fell doesn't matter yet
these latter two things are the things
that command attention and that's
largely because the things that really
matter are determined in the long run
and once you make your commitment you
have to wait a long time to know if you
were right you have to sit there and not
do something I want to come back to what
you just said about the relative
performance and in investing thing we
always talk about how it's extremely
easy to achieve average results but also
it's extremely difficult to consistently
be above average and in your dare to be
great and dare to be great too memos you
wrote about that to be great investors
must dare to be different must dare to
be wrong but also must dare to look
wrong
>> right and when we talk about the things
that interfere with good performance
this nails Dave Swenson used my favorite
two-word phrase that good investing
requires the adoption of uncomfortably
idiosyncratic positions. You have to
dare to be different from others. It's
obvious that if you invest the same as
everybody else, you can't be superior.
>> Well said. I just want to jump to one
final topic given we are coming up to
the time. If you take a giant step back,
think about with your experience 57
years in the business in the asset
management landscape changed
dramatically over the last 57 years and
it feels to us that that change even
accelerating further over the last 5 10
years. It feels like we at the doorsteps
of something really major in terms of
the how the public markets and private
markets and alternative investment and
traditional investment all those
different pieces getting a little bit
more converging the similar direction
can you provide with our audience your
view about the general asset management
landscape and what are your views about
where the puck is going
>> well it's a complex question I think the
important thing is that the things that
matter never change understanding the
nature of investor psychology,
institutional constraints, overemphasis
on volatility, those are not going to
change. The importance of risk control,
consistency, non-reliance on
forecasting, these things never change.
Investors are always looking for the
silver bullet that will permit them to
make a high return without bearing risk.
That will never exist. Superior
investing will always be a matter of
superior judgment which is always in my
opinion going to be personal and not
machinable. That's my hope. But there's
a lot of discussion now centered
primarily around increasing the exposure
of non-institutional investors to
private asset. And private assets are
not exchangeraded. They're not liquid.
You can't get out the day you change
your mind. Sometimes you can't get out
at all until the investor, the manager
concludes the process and returns your
money. And there's no trading taking
place. So when you buy the asset, you
don't have a reference point that tells
you that other people think this is the
fair price. So there's a lot of
uncertainty associated with investing in
private assets. There are also great
pluses. You get to buy things other
people aren't. You get to buy things
that don't mark tomarket and
consequently don't demonstrate
volatility and people don't get fussed
about. Every stock is posted on the
stock exchange every day. These are
assets that maybe your manager can find
that other people can't find or maybe
your manager can understand and other
people can't understand as well. So
there are advantages and disadvantages
in private investing and you have to
take a sober view and you have to only
do the amount of private investing that
is right for you. You should only do it
if you understand what you're doing and
if you're sure your manager understands
what he or she is doing and embodies
your views. The easiest thing to say
about investing is that there's nothing
that's right for everybody. And if you
combine that with the fact that there's
no silver bullet, that means what you
said earlier, investments have to be
chosen with care in each case, asset
selection. And you and I, we spent a lot
of time meeting with our most
sophisticated and largest client around
the world. And it feels to us that there
is also broader trend where investors
and asset owners and allocators are
looking to have smaller number of
relationship
meaning smaller number of asset manager
relationship or general partner
relationship in a private sense but more
deeper strategic thinking about
different capabilities and integrate
something. thinking about not just the
next vintage or next year but thinking
about the next three, five, 10 years
trying to solve the things that they try
to solve. Could be asset liability,
could be liquidity, could be other
objectives they may have and basically
building a relationship where they feel
like the asset management or GPS are
almost like extension of their broader
organization and teams. I would love to
get your take on that. Obviously, the
ideal condition would be to find a
manager or a stable of managers who
understand and reflect your point of
view, are capable of giving you
performance that will fit your needs and
make you happy and have the skill to do
so. As you say, most people want to do
more with fewer managers these days to
simplify their lives and try to find
those managers who will do the best job
of giving them what they want and need.
And there's no magic number. Just as in
asset selection with manager selection
we concentrate to take advantage of what
we believe we diversify to protect
against what we don't know and we have
to strike a balance. Very few people
have one manager but we know that if you
have a thousand managers you'll have
average performance. What's the magic
number? A lot has to do with having the
ability to select the right ones. If you
can't select the right ones you might
want to diversify heavily. If you can
select the right ones and find a few
that really appeal to you, then you
might want to concentrate heavily.
Institutional behavior dictates
diversification of managers, but I can
tell you that the clients we've had who
have been willing to concentrate have
had the best performance. But of course,
this is another decision for which
there's no magic solution. All these
things [music] in the end come down to
judgment and insight. That's great.
Howard, as always, thank you for your
insights. My pleasure.
>> Thank you for your time.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
[music]
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. [music]
You'll be the first to hear when new
episodes drop.
[music]
The information contained herein is for
educational andformational purposes only
and does not constitute and should not
be construed as an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments. This material discusses
broad market industry or sector trends
or other general economic or market
conditions and it is being provided on a
confidential basis. Opinions expressed
herein are the current opinions of
Brookfield including its subsidiaries
and affiliates and are subject to change
without notice. Brookfield, including
its subsidiaries and affiliates, assumes
no responsibility to update such
information or to notify clients of any
changes. Any outlooks, forecasts, or
portfolio weightings presented herein
are as of the date appearing on this
material only and are also subject to
change without notice. Past performance
is not indicative of future performance.
Copyright 2026 Brookfield.
Audiation.
