Brookfield Corporation 2025 letter to
shareholders [music]
overview.
Overall results and business
fundamentals were strong in 2025. Stock
markets were volatile, but equities
ended the year up, as did bonds, gold,
and commodities. For those who stayed
the course, it was a great year. We had
a record year with $112 billion of
fundraising, $91 billion of assets sold,
and approximately $175 billion of assets
financed. This enabled us to acquire
$126 billion of new investments. In the
stock market, our shares generated a 21%
return. This narrowed some of the gap
between price and value.
The business environment is much better
than it seems. Economic fundamentals are
good and while everyone seems to feel
uneasy, that appears to be the new
normal. Overall, equity market
valuations are high in some areas of the
market. But remember, 20 years from now,
today's valuations will look
ridiculously low for great companies.
With slowing economies and the US
government focused on pushing rates
lower, interest rates have been coming
down globally, and it looks as though
they will continue to do so. Lower rates
will do wonders for the US economy,
propelling housing and consumer
confidence. As the tariff impacts begin
to drop off the year-over-year inflation
figures, there should be scope for the
Fed to achieve this. Irrespective, a
short rate of around 3%, a long rate of
around 4% is more normal than we have
seen in decades.
Capital market conditions have improved
meaningfully. Both debt and equity
markets have strong depth and liquidity
with debt issuers in particular able to
raise capital at historically tight
spreads. This has increased confidence
across the investment landscape and
support the pickup in M&A activity. If
interest rates evolve as expected, this
dynamic should strengthen. Private real
assets in this environment will continue
to outperform.
Performance was strong in 2025. The
price of Brookfield in the markets
generated a 21% return in 2025. This
exceeded the S&P 500 which was propelled
by technology. As an indication of the
returns that can be generated for you
over the longer term, $1 million
invested 30 plus years ago in Brookfield
Corporation is worth $285 million today,
representing an annualized return of
19%. Over the longer term, our stock
price and intrinsic value per share have
tracked each other. With respect to this
year, results were strong. Distributable
earnings or cash flows before
realizations were a record $5.4 billion
or $227 cents per share for the year.
This was up 11% per share over the prior
year. More importantly, cash flows
before realizations per share has grown
at an annual rate of approximately 18%
since 2021. Our asset management
business delivered record results
raising $112 billion during the year
across flagship and complimentary
strategies which underscore sustained
demand for our global investment
capabilities.
During the year, we also continued to
scale and diversify the global footprint
of our wealth solutions business,
advancing several key strategic
initiatives, including receiving
shareholder approval to acquire Just
Group in the UK, entry into the Japanese
market, and continued progress expanding
access to US private wealth distribution
channels. Our operating businesses
generate strong cash flow supported by
strong underlying fundamentals,
highquality assets, and continued
progress advancing partnerships to
enhance long-term growth. We completed
record monetizations of $91 billion.
With continued progress returning
capital to investors and a robust
pipeline of additional asset sales, we
expect to realize significant carried
interest into income over the next 3
years.
Business success is about focusing on
the long-term. Long-term business
success requires many things, but we
believe three in particular stand out.
Each is important on their own, but the
three together are the difference
between good and great long-term
returns. The first is identifying a good
business with secular long-term trends
behind it. The second is running a
business well and letting compound
returns do the work. The third is
ensuring that you're never forced to be
disrupted in the compounding of your
returns. First, one must find a business
which can endure and evolve. For
decades, we have been focused on
building out the backbone of the global
economy. Broadly speaking, this means
that we are behind the scenes providing
infrastructure to companies and
individuals. Underlying this broad
theme, however, is the fact that the
economy always evolves and we must
evolve with it. For example, consider
that while we still invest in the
backbone of the global economy, 50% of
the things that we invest in today did
not exist as widely held institutional
investments 15 years ago, i.e. telecom
towers, data centers, solar plants and
battery systems. In addition, we try to
identify themes that enable us to invest
in growing sectors. For the past decade,
we have had three main themes:
digitalization, decarbonization, and del
globalization. Each of these is still
more important today for investing than
when we started with them nearly 10
years ago. For example, we have been
building power plants for many decades.
But now, for the first time in 40 years,
we are in a period of very large and
sustained power buildout that has
decades to run. With all this in place,
the second miracle of business can take
hold. Compound returns. Albert Einstein
said it best, "Compound interest is the
eighth wonder of the world. He who
understands it earns it. He who doesn't
pays it." When one extends an investment
horizon across decades, compounding
stops being part of the equation, but
instead becomes the dominant force.
Small differences in annual returns
translate into profound differences in
long-term outcomes. This is not
arithmetic, but instead exponential. To
put it in perspective, over the last 30
plus years, by sticking to these core
principles of compounding, the price of
our stock as a proxy for value has
compounded at 19%. Over the same period,
the assets we have managed have expanded
from $6 billion to more than $1 trillion
and each of our metrics has continued to
compound.
Lastly, and most importantly, one must
never be disrupted in the compounding
process. Disruptions can arise as a
result of impatience leading to the
premature sale of an investment or
getting spooked by the markets and
cashing out. For us, it means that we
must always keep excess capital
available to ensure that we can ride
through any market cycle. Holding excess
fortress capital does mean that one
never maximizes short-term returns, but
it should be considered insurance. You
only buy insurance for the possibility
of a problem and you hope you never have
to make a claim. Similarly, holding
excess capital and forgoing greater
returns ensures that you are never in a
situation of disruption to the
compounding miracle. Our goal is to
partner with the best. Our business
strategy is to buy the best businesses
in the best countries with the best
management teams. We have found that the
price for these types of businesses
tends to be a bit higher. However, we
have learned that when running a
business, quality always becomes
apparent with the best. Our business
relationships have also increasingly
come to be with the best, as exemplified
by some of our recent transactions. In
2025, we end a number of important
transactions across our businesses with
just a few examples here. With Google,
we signed an agreement to sell them
hydro power from two of our facilities
in Pennsylvania. These 20-year contracts
for over $3 billion of power are amongst
the largest private contracts for hydro
power ever signed and will provide base
load power to Google in an important
data center market in the US. This in
turn will facilitate buildout of their
data center operations. With Nvidia, we
signed a deal to build AI factories on a
global basis and they partnered with us
to launch our new fund that will invest
in AI infrastructure including AI
factories. This partnership is planned
for hundred billion and is one of the
first of its kind on a global basis.
With JP Morgan, we signed a build to
suit agreement for a new office complex
in the Paulwide business district of
Mumbai. And they also announced plans to
build a new European headquarters on our
Canary Warf estate, reinforcing Canary
War's position as a premier location for
large-scale global financial services
tenants. These two complexes will
encompass upwards of 5 million square ft
and house around 25,000 people. This
will provide modern, best-in-class
infrastructure built for the future to
house their people. With Microsoft, we
continue to build them solar and wind
facilities under a framework agreement
for over 10 12 gawatt of power. This is
the largest power framework agreement
ever signed and will facilitate their
growth in renewables to fuel their power
needs. With the US government, our
Westinghouse business signed a deal to
sell the US government $80 billion of
nuclear reactors. This will assist us to
restart the supply chain for nuclear in
the United States and will create very
substantial employment. This first of
its kind contract will enable us to
restart the industry.
Flexibility and change are critical to
long-term success.
The ability to continually adapt is the
lifeblood of a great long-term business.
Consider what Meta, Alphabet, and Amazon
were 25 years ago and what they have
become today. Meta was just Facebook.
Alphabet was only Google. and Amazon
sold books. Consider that Tesla will
likely not be a car company in the long
term. The ability to be flexible is one
of the greatest advantages that some
companies have. Single industry
businesses are great if you get the
sector right, but seldom do trends last
forever, and most businesses that do not
evolve will wither and die. Think Kodak
cameras. Being trusted by shareholders
to continuously adapt an investment
model is a special privilege. One can
then focus on allocating capital to
generate the greatest returns over the
longer term. This flexibility is
extremely valuable and compared to
others who are constrained by mandates
allows for the evolution of a business
in this everchanging world. Furthermore,
pressure to invest capital in a specific
sector or market is one of the most
damaging factors to long-term investment
returns. It can lead to overpaying for
assets or merely investing capital in
sectors with subpcar long-term returns.
In contrast, moving capital to sectors
which have a shortage or will define the
future provide excellent opportunities
to earn outsized returns.
However, conviction, confidence, and a
supportive group of investors are
necessary.
Access to capital with flexible mandates
also provides additional optionality and
in our case we have flexibility to move
capital globally within reason and
within the areas of our expertise. We
can direct our investment capital
towards markets where returns are the
most attractive. Today, most of our
excess capital is going towards
digitalization, decarbonization, and
deglobalization. Whereas years ago, it
was going into property, pipeline,
infrastructure, and hydro facilities.
This flexibility often adds very
substantially to riskreward returns over
the longer term. Flexibility to
reallocate resources. We can reallocate
our people and other corporate resources
to the geographic regions where we see
opportunities.
For example, we have reallocated a
number of senior people to India and the
Middle East in the past decade in order
to capitalize on opportunities there.
Flexibility to build or buy. Because we
have deep operating and development
capabilities, we can either develop new
projects or acquire assets. We always
weigh new build opportunities against
acquisitions as it is almost always
lower risk to buy at a discount to cost
than to develop ourselves. Our
construction and development
capabilities also give us the added
benefit of keeping our underwriting
standards sharp because we're always in
touch with the replacement cost of
assets. Flexibility to repurchase our
own assets. Given we have many partners,
funds and public companies, we always
weigh increasing the ownership of
existing assets through buying the
shares of our publicly listed operations
or other fund interests against
investing capital in external
opportunities. Repurchasing our own
assets is always less risky. In
addition, public market acquisitions are
sometimes also attractive because assets
can often be purchased at less than
tangible value as we can exploit our
views of value versus the market price.
flexibility to access all sources of
capital. Given our scale, we are among
the largest counterparties of most major
financial organizations in the world. We
can therefore access capital in
different forms and at better rates and
terms than smaller businesses. This is
an enormous benefit when buying and
selling businesses. We also have access
to both the public markets through our
public entities and the institutional
market through our funds. The growth of
our private wealth products for
individuals will only enhance this
access.
Overall, we continue to build the
organization based on maintaining this
flexibility to ensure a low-risk way to
earn solid returns. As is the case for
select few, we should therefore be able
to enhance our returns more than single
industry businesses over the longer
term. We are laying the backbone
infrastructure for AI. With AI
increasingly in the headlines, we
thought it was an appropriate time to
outline how we are approaching this
investment opportunity. Our focus is not
on predicting which models will win,
which chips will dominate, or which
applications will ultimately prove
enduring. Instead, we are focused on the
structural need for large-scale
longduration infrastructure capacity to
support the growth of AI and on
investing in the essential physical
assets required to enable it. We are in
the early stages of a multi-deade
infrastructure investment cycle. AI is
emerging as a generalpurpose technology
and realizing its potential will require
unprecedented levels of physical
infrastructure investment. Over the next
decade, $7 trillion of capital will be
required across the AI value chain
spanning data centers, power generation,
compute infrastructure, grid
modernization, fiber networks, and
related adjacencies. For us, this
represents a large and expanding
opportunity set that naturally extends
our existing real estate, renewable
power, and infrastructure businesses.
The role of private capital in this
buildout is most evident where scale,
duration, and sophistication create
natural barriers to entry. While AI is
often discussed in terms of chips and
algorithms, the largest constraint today
is not technology or capital, but access
to reliable power and the infrastructure
required to deliver it. Meeting that
demand requires long life investments in
power generation, grid reinforcement,
and firming capacity alongside the
physical infrastructure that converts
power into usable compute. Over the long
term, the trajectory of the technology
sector is defined by a dual mandate. The
development of increasingly
sophisticated models capable of solving
complex challenges and the aggressive
reduction of the marginal cost of
compute. This dynamic creates a powerful
economic cycle with increasingly
efficient and capable compute,
accelerating adoption across the global
economy and unlocking unprecedented
gains in productivity and scientific
discovery. Achieving this mandate,
however, is fundamentally a function of
physical scale. The brains of next
generation AI require an
industrial-grade backbone that can
support high power densities and
seamless connectivity. As a provider of
large-scale capital and a strategic
owner of core infrastructure, we are
partnering with the world's leading
technology firms to build the
foundational capacity required.
How we deploy capital into this
opportunity is simple. Our focus is on
projects with land, power, long-term
contracts, and highquality investment
grade counterparties or other hard
assets with tangible value. At this
stage of the cycle, we believe the
backbone infrastructure winners will be
those who own and build foundational
infrastructure for the strongest
sovereign governments and investment
grade counterparties in the world. The
scale of this buildout far exceeds what
corporate or sovereign balance sheets
can fund alone and favors investors with
operating expertise, access to long-term
capital, and the ability to execute
large, sophisticated projects
consistently through cycles. Attributes
that align with how we have built our
business over many decades.
Great real estate always wins over time.
Over the past 40 years, we have invested
in, operated, and monetized real estate
across market cycles. While market
sentiment towards real estate inevitably
shifts as capital flows tighten and
loosen and interest rates rise and fall,
our experience has been consistent.
Great real estate owned and operated
well compounds value over the longer
term. This point can be exemplified by
our portfolio which based on cash
invested and cash taken out has a
negative book value i.e. we have no net
cash equity at cost invested but has an
estimated equity value of around $25
billion.
Our approach to real estate has always
been grounded in fundamentals. We
acquire assets for value, finance them
conservatively and manage them actively.
Some of the value in real estate we own
is created at acquisition, but much is
created during ownership through
releasing execution, reinvestment,
redevelopment, and disciplined
day-to-day operations. Cash flow
generation is central to our operating
model and is actively managed, informing
how we operate, reinvest, and allocate
capital through periods of disruption.
This owner operator model gives us
control over outcomes, which proved
especially important in the most recent
cycle. Dislocation was driven largely by
capital markets reacting to shifting
perceptions rather than by a
deterioration in underlying operating
fundamentals. While broader sentiment
caused many to step back, we remained
active, continuing to invest, develop,
and reposition assets. As a result, with
new supply across our core markets muted
and demand growing, asset values are set
to rise substantially.
Properties that we delivered or
substantially repositioned over the past
few years, including office assets in
major global markets, are now nearly
fully leased and achieving some of the
highest rents on record. This includes
buildings in Midtown Manhattan, Westside
Manhattan, the city of London, the West
End of London, and Dubai. All of which
are now achieving record rents at circa
50% above those achieved precoid. One
recent example is one Leen Hall in
London. A new office development started
in the depth of CO in 2021 and delivered
in the last few months. The building is
now nearly fully leased with overall
rents 20% higher than expectations and
the last leases signed approximately 50%
higher than expectations and among the
highest ever rents signed in the city of
London. This dynamic has also driven
strong leasing across our broader
portfolio. Large creditworthy tenants
are making long-term commitments to the
highest quality assets with companies
such as Visa, JP Morgan, and Moody's
relocating significant portions of their
operations to our properties alongside
many of our other highquality tenants
that executed long-term renewals and
expansions.
Over the last year, sentiment has begun
to realign with fundamentals. Liquidity
has started to return to markets. And
during the year, we sold $24 billion of
real estate while investing $33 billion
in high conviction investment
opportunities. At the same time, we had
our largest year of real estate
financing yet, reflecting both improving
market conditions and the depth of
opportunities across our real estate
platforms. We enter this next phase from
a position of strength, owning
highquality assets in supply constrained
markets and operating them through
leading global platforms. As we have
seen across cycles, great real estate
owned and managed well always wins over
time. And with few players as strong and
well positioned as us, we should be able
to capitalize even more on this
recovery. We are streamlining the
business. For 25 years, we have managed
private funds for institutional and high
netw worth clients. More recently, we
expanded our offerings to manage private
funds for individuals through various
channels, which are set to grow
exponentially as greater allocations of
retirement accounts and 401ks are made
to alternatives. Over the last 15 plus
years, we have also offered a listed
version of our investment strategies in
each of infrastructure, renewables, and
private equity and originally real
estate also, namely our listed
partnerships that were originally formed
in Bermuda to maximize their flow
through efficiency and accessing capital
globally.
In 2020, to further enhance the
accessibility of these entities to
global investors, we paired each of
these partnerships with a listed sister
corporate entity. Similarly, when we
created our insurance business over 5
years ago, we used the same pairing
structure such that the insurance
business became a listed sister entity
to BN trading under the symbol BNT.
While our paired structures have been
instrumental in helping us appeal to the
broadest global investor base with a
continued and increasing expansion of
index investing, splitting market
capitalizations has now become
suboptimal. As an initial step, last
year we announced the combination of
Brookfield Business Partners with its
sister, Brookfield Business Corporation.
As a result of this transaction, we will
soon have a single listed entity that is
fully index eligible and reflects the
combined market cap of the two entities.
Since announcement, the stock is up
approximately 30%. Next, we intend to
work this year on merging BN with its
paired security BNT. This will further
streamline our structure and also
support the next evolution of Brookfield
with one entity conducting all of our
insurance and balance sheet investment
activities. In addition to streamlining
our structure, this will add substantial
additional capital to our insurance
operations, facilitating both the growth
of the overall business and the
advancement of our real asset focused
investment strategy. Finally, we will
over time also assess our other listed
entities to determine whether we can
achieve more streamlining of their
structures while also ensuring maximum
business efficiency.
Closing. Last week, Connor Tesy was
appointed CEO of BAM. I will continue as
chair of that board in addition to my
role as CEO of Overall Brookfield. This
appointment culminates a 4-year
transition process and is an important
step in positioning our next generation
of management to lead the company for
the next approximately 25 years. We are
excited about the prospects for BAM and
thrilled to assist Connor and his team
as they take BAM to new levels of
success. We remain committed to
investing capital for you in highquality
assets that earn solid cash returns on
equity while emphasizing downside
protection for the capital employed. The
primary objective of the company
continues to be to generate increased
cash flows on a per share basis and as a
result higher intrinsic value per share
over the longer term. Thank you for your
interest in Brookfield and please do not
hesitate to contact [music] any of us
should you have suggestions, questions,
comments or ideas you wish to share.
Sincerely, Bruce Flatt, Chief [music]
Executive Officer, February 12th, 2026.
>> [music]
>> Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information. All references to thaws or
dollars are to US dollars. This letter
to shareholders contains forward-looking
information within the meaning of
Canadian Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon, or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries, as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economy. ies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, our target carried interest,
and the impact of acquisitions and
dispositions on our business. Although
Brookfield Corporation believes that
such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions,
including acquisitions and dispositions,
the ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations, and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. One,
operational and reputational risks. 1
one technological change. 1 and two
changes in government regulation and
legislation within the countries in
which we operate. 1 3 governmental
investigations and sanctions. 14
litigation. 15 changes in tax laws. 1
six ability to collect amounts owed. 1 7
catastrophic events such as earthquakes,
hurricanes, and epidemics, pandemics. 1
18 The possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 1. Nine. The introduction,
withdrawal, success and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20
the failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. Twoon health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22 the maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. Two,
three, the existence of information
barriers between certain businesses
within our asset management operations.
24 risks specific to our business
segments including asset management,
wealth solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States.
We caution that the foregoing list of
important factors that may affect future
results is not exhaustive and other
factors could also adversely affect
future results.
Readers are urged to consider these
risks as well as other uncertainties,
factors, and assumptions carefully in
evaluating the forward-looking
statements, and are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on such
forward-looking statements, which are
based only on information available to
us as of the date of this letter or such
other date specified herein, except as
required by law. Brookfield Corporation
undertakes no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether written or oral,
that may be as a result of new
information. Future performance is not
indicative nor a guarantee of future
results. There can be no assurance that
comparable results will be achieved in
the future, that future investments will
be similar to historic investments
discussed herein, that targeted returns,
growth objectives, diversification or
asset allocations will be met, or that
an investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. All references to asset
monetizations include completed
transactions and transactions in the
process of being completed. When we
speak about our wealth solutions
business or Brookfield Wealth Solutions,
we are referring to Brookfield's
investments in this business that
supported the acquisitions of its
underlying operating subsidiaries.
Cautionary statement regarding the use
of nonFRS measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below,
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS. We caution readers
that these nonFRS financial measures or
other financial metrics are not
standardized under IFRS and may differ
from the financial measures or other
financial metrics disclosed by other
businesses and as a result may not be
comparable to similar measures presented
by other issuers and entities. We make
reference to distributable earnings
which refers to the sum of distributable
earnings from our asset management
business, distributable operating
earnings from our wealth solutions
business, distributions received from
our ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans, capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonFRS measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's
quarter 42025 press release, which
includes reconciliations of these
nonIFRS financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
