Brookfield Asset Management 2025 letters
to shareholders
overview. We delivered strong earnings
in the fourth quarter, further
accelerating the momentum that has been
building throughout 2025 and into 2026.
We finished the year with earnings,
capital raising, deployment, and
monetizations at all-time highs. We
raised $35 billion in the quarter, our
strongest fundraising quarter ever,
bringing the total for the year to $112
billion across more than 50 different
funds in the market. Demand was
broad-based across strategies and
geographies, underscoring the durability
of our franchise and the scope of our
investment capabilities in today's
environment. Combined with strong
capital deployment of $13 billion in the
quarter and $66 billion for the full
year, our fee bearing capital FBC base
gur of $63 billion up 12% over the last
12 months. We generated a record $867
million or 53 cents per share of fee
related earnings FRE and $767
million or 47 cents per share of
distributable earnings DE in the fourth
quarter representing increases of 28%
and 18% respectively over the prior year
period. This brought FRE and DE for the
full year to $3 billion or $184 per
share and $2.7 billion or $165 per share
respectively.
Market environment in 2026 outlook. As
we start 2026, global economic
conditions remain strong, supporting a
broadly constructive investment
environment. Stabilized interest rates,
resilient economic growth, tight credit
spreads, and improved global M&A
activity are contributing to confidence
across markets. Capital from growing
allocations, and a widening spectrum of
investors is increasingly gravitating
toward real assets where stable cash
flows, inflation protection, and
downside resilience are very attractive.
These forces are driving deal activity
across private markets and reinforcing
the opportunity set of highquality
longduration assets that generate stable
cash flows and attractive risk adjusted
returns. Powerful structural mega trends
continue to drive long-term investment
demand. And the same themes that have
driven deployment in recent years will
continue to drive investment for years
to come. Digitalization is accelerating
the need for data connectivity and AI
infrastructure. Declobalization is
reshaping supply chains and increasing
demand for localized resilient
industrial and logistics assets. Growing
power demand remains a central global
priority, requiring large investment to
participate in the generational buildout
of power generation and energy
transition solutions to support
sustainable growth. Together, these
trends represent multi- trillion dollar
investment opportunities globally and
support our deep investment pipeline.
With these dynamics, disciplined and
patient capital deployment remains
critical. Our longstanding focus on
investing in highquality and critical
assets and businesses that form the
backbone of the global economy continues
to guide our strategy. With this as a
backdrop, a step change in growth is
emerging across our infrastructure and
private equity platforms. We enter 2026
with strong fundraising momentum, having
recently launched the seventh vintage of
our flagship private equity fund. And
we're preparing to launch the sixth
vintage of our flagship infrastructure
fund. Similar to our recent power and
real estate flagships, we expect both to
represent our largest vintages ever. In
infrastructure, we see significant
growth opportunities. The upcoming
launch of this next flagship will build
on a strong performance and expanding
opportunity set of prior vintages. At
the same time, the recent launch of our
AI infrastructure fund will anchor our
hundred billion dollar AI infrastructure
program and is supported by founding
partners Nvidia and KIA. The buildout of
AI infrastructure is one of the largest
infrastructure investment cycles in
history, driving unprecedented demand
for power, data centers, compute
infrastructure, and grid modernization.
Given the concurrence of strong investor
demand, the scale of the current
opportunity set, and having all of our
infrastructure funds in the market this
year, infrastructure will be a
significant contributor to our growth in
2026 and 2027.
Within private equity, we are at a
similar inflection point. The recent
launch of our seventh flagship, Vintage,
addresses the strong client demand for
large-scale operationsoriented
investments at this point in the cycle,
while a complimentary funds in the
market, including our financial
infrastructure fund, Middle East
Partners Fund, and recently launched
private equity wealth vehicle further
extend our reach into market segments
where operational hardwork, capital
intensity, and sector specialization
create durable competitive advantages.
Taken together, the breadth of these
platforms, the depth of our operating
capabilities, and the convergence of
powerful secular tailwinds reinforce our
confidence in the acceleration of growth
across both infrastructure and private
equity over the long term. At the same
time, momentum continues to build across
credit and private wealth. Within
insurance, Brookville Wealth Solutions,
BWS, pending acquisition of Just Group
will result in expanded asset management
mandate and accelerate organic growth in
the UK for BWS. Within private wealth,
our recent launch of both our private
equity and assetbased finance funds
represents an important step in the
continued expansion of our private
wealth platform. These strategies
broaden access for individual investors
to our private equity capabilities and
support the long-term growth of our
private wealth channel as we continue to
build further durable recurring sources
of capital. We're also acquiring the
remaining stake in Oak Tree that we do
not already own, which will enable us to
enhance collaboration across our credit
business and strengthen our ability to
continue delivering long-term value for
our clients. With constructive market
conditions, more sources of funding than
ever and strengthening deal flow, we are
well positioned to raise and deploy
capital at scale, and to deliver durable
long-term value for our clients and
partners. Taken together, these factors
position us for one of the strongest
years in our history. Reflecting the
support of Tailwinds and our strong
growth outlook for 2026 and beyond, we
are pleased to announce that our board
of directors approved a 15% increase in
our dividend, representing $21 per share
on an annualized basis. Diversification
and resiliency of BAM's cash flows. Over
the past decade, we have scaled our
business to better serve our clients,
expanding our capabilities to meet their
demands, broadening the solutions we can
offer, and increasing the scale at which
we can invest. As the opportunity set
for real assets and credit has expanded,
we have meaningfully increased the
number of strategies we offer and the
breadth of clients we serve. At the
center of this success is our
disciplined investing approach. By
taking a long-term intentional approach
to broadening the platform, we have
built a business that can raise capital
more consistently and deliver an
earnings profile that's more
predictable, more resilient, and better
positioned to grow across economic
cycles. Today, essentially all of our
distributable earnings are fee related.
The lowest risk and most stable form of
earnings for our industry. Further, more
than 95% of our fee related revenues are
generated from capital we manage on a
long-term or perpetual basis, providing
exceptional durability and visibility
into future earnings. But the strength
of our earnings model extends beyond
capital duration. It is reinforced by
the breadth of our platform and the
diversification we have built across
asset classes, products, clients, and
geographies. This diversity provides
multiple paths to deploy and capitalize
in any market condition, ensuring that
one segment or another is always growing
rapidly while also supporting consistent
performance across market environments.
One of the most significant changes over
the past decade has been the expansion
of the types of assets we invest in. 10
years ago, we had our standalone
infrastructure, private equity, and real
estate businesses. Since that time, we
have built new platforms in transition
and credit, and in some cases, we've
built organically. Transition was first
incubated within infrastructure, but
after separating it out as its own asset
class, and combined with our legacy as a
leading renewable investor, it has grown
into one of the largest global platforms
with over $140 billion of assets under
management. In other cases, we partnered
and acquired complimentary capabilities,
most notably with Oakree in 2019 along
with additional partner managers since
then to create one of the largest and
most comprehensive credit platforms in
the industry. Importantly, no single
business contributes more than onethird
of our fee related revenues. This
balance matters. Different businesses
respond differently across economic
cycles, interest rate environments, and
capital markets. By ensuring that no one
area dominates our earning space, we
reduce reliance on any single asset
class and continue to grow through a
wide range of environments. We have also
meaningfully broadened our product
offerings. In 2016, we had four products
in the market. This year, we'll be
fundraising across nearly 60 funds and
strategies. With more products in market
at any given time, fundraising is now
more diversified and consistent,
enabling steadier inflows from quarter
to quarter and aligning capital with
opportunity as market conditions evolve
while serving clients with solutions
tailored to their specific investment
objectives. Client and channel
diversification further reinforces
stability. We now have relationships
with more than 2,500 institutional
clients globally, representing more than
10fold growth over the past decade.
Alongside this institutional base, we
can now also raise capital across other
channels. Our private wealth platform
today serves nearly 70,000 clients
across multiple strategies and has
become an increasingly recurring source
of capital. Our insurance solutions
business has grown from inception during
the pandemic into a platform managing
over hundred billion dollar of fee
bearing capital on behalf of nearly
800,000 policy holders, providing
longduration capital that is well
aligned with our investment horizons.
Our public affiliates add another
important dimension providing permanent
capital and a connection to public
markets that complements private
fundraising. This breath is unmatched on
a global basis and is a key
differentiator of our business. Our
platform is also truly global. We raise
and deploy capital across more than 50
countries. This matters because
economic, political, and market
conditions rarely move in sync.
Geographic diversification allows us to
continue raising capital when certain
investor groups are more cautious and
shift deployment to regions with more
attractive opportunity sets. Taken
together, this diversification has
produced what we set out to build, a
stable, resilient earnings model
designed to perform well in different
market environments and grow across
cycles. Looking ahead, individual
investors through private wealth,
insurance, annuities, and retirement
solutions will represent an even larger
or more balanced share of our capital
formation over time. These are long
duration repeat sources of capital that
should further enhance earnings
visibility, reduce cyclicality, and
support durable long-term value creation
for our shareholders.
Private equity is evolving. Operators
will lead the next chapter. Our private
equity business was born out of our
long-standing approach to owning and
operating real assets that form the
backbone of the global economy. For more
than four decades, we have focused on
acquiring and operating industrial and
essential service businesses. Companies
that produce, move, and support the
critical systems underpinning economic
activity. Our owner operator mindset
distinguishes us and shapes how we
invest, manage risk, and create value.
Private equity has entered a new era
focused on returns that are driven by
margin expansion, not multiple
expansion. Financial engineering is no
longer a viable source of value creation
as it now faces headwinds from
normalized funding costs, slower
monetizations, and buyers discounting
forward growth. That shift plays
directly to our strengths. Performance
will no longer rely on rolling the dice
on the broader market, but on rolling up
sleeves and improving operational
efficiency, an approach that has been
core to our DNA. Half the value we've
generated in our private equity
investments has come from operational
improvements, a real differentiator for
our franchise and a consistent strategy
to maximize value. A recent investment
that illustrates our approach is Chemile
X, the global leader in electric heat
trace systems, missionritical technology
used across industrial facilities,
energy infrastructure, data centers, and
commercial real estate to ensure fluids,
pipes, and equipment operate safely and
reliably. While essential to operations,
Kimick's products represent a small
portion of customer costs, creating
strong customer loyalty, recurring
aftermarket revenues, and highly
predictable cash flows. Despite its
market leadership and decadesl long
track record of innovation, Kimlick was
treated as a non-core division pride
prior owners resulting in
underinvestment and limited strategic
focus. This created an opportunity for
us to acquire a highquality industrial
business and attractive entry point.
Exactly the type of situation where
operational expertise can drive value.
Since acquiring the business, we have
established ChemX as an independent
company, built out its leadership team
and core functions, and implemented
targeted operational initiatives. In
2025, we delivered over $20 million of
Ebida improvements through pricing,
procurement, plant upgrades, and
efficiency initiatives, driving over 15%
growth year-over-year. Looking ahead,
our value creation plan reflects our
broader playbook, driving operational
excellence, investing in in markets, and
supporting continued innovation through
R&D. The missionritical and longduration
recurring cash flow nature of our
portfolio companies makes them
inherently more resilient, easier to
underwrite, and consistently attractive
to investors seeking predictability and
downside protection. As a result, even
as many private equity managers have
stepped back, we have remained active,
raising capital, deploying into
highquality opportunities, and returning
over 10 billion of capital to clients.
Over the past 2 years, the macro
environment is improving, deal activity
is accelerating, and industrial
businesses are being reshaped by two
powerful forces, delobization and AI
enabled productivity. Supply chains are
being rewired, manufacturing
capabilities are being re-evaluated, and
companies are under pressure to
modernize operations and adopt digital
and AI tools at scale. This environment
rewards operators capable of driving
real change inside businesses rather
than those reliant on leverage or market
beta. The strengthening sentiment is
also reflected in our listed entities
share price which is up more than 50%
over the last 12 months and contributed
to performance fees in the quarter.
Against this backdrop, we also launched
the next vintage of our flagship private
equity fund. This is an important
milestone in a meaningful driver of
future earnings growth backed by a
25-year track record among the strongest
in the industry and a strategy well
aligned with current market conditions.
We expect this to be our largest private
equity fund to date. With operators
defying the next chapter of private
equity, our global, diversified, and
operationally focused platform is built
for this environment, positioning us to
lead the next chapter of private equity
and drive meaningful growth in the years
ahead. Management succession. A message
from Bruce. As part of a long planned
leadership transition, the Brookfield
Asset Management Board today announced
the appointment of Connor as CEO
effective immediately. I will continue
as chair of the board for BAM in
addition to my role as CEO of Brookfield
Corporation. Connor will continue his
role as CEO of our renewable energy
business supported by deep bench of
talent in that business. This
appointment is the next step in our
succession process we started four years
ago. Welcoming the generation of leaders
who will guide the company for the next
20 plus years. It is firmly rooted in
Brookfield's distinctive culture, which
emphasizes collaboration, fosters
innovation and entrepreneurial spirit,
and maintains a strong sense of
discipline. These core values will
continue to shape the company's future,
ensuring sustained growth and success
under Connor<unk>'s leadership. As I've
said before, I have never been more
excited about the prospects for our
business than I am now. I intend to help
in any way I can, focusing my energy
where I can be most useful, and I will
stay fully invested in Brookfield. Our
entire senior team is thrilled to work
with Connor as he assumes this role and
takes Brookfield to new levels of
success.
Closing.
We remain committed to being a
world-class asset manager by investing
our capital in highquality assets that
earn solid, attractive returns while
emphasizing downside protection. The
primary objective continues to be to
generate increasing cash flows on a per
share basis and to distribute that cash
to you by dividends or share
repurchases.
Thank you for your interest in
Brookfield and please do not hesitate to
contact any of us should you have
suggestions, [music] questions, comments
or ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flatt, chairman of the board.
Connor [music] Tesy, chief executive
officer, February 4th, 2026.
>> [music]
>> Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information. All references to dollars
or dollars are to US dollars. This
letter to shareholders contains
forward-looking information within the
meaning of Canadian Provincial
Securities Laws and forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the US
Securities Act of 1933, the US
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, safe
harbor provisions of the United States
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995, and in any applicable Canadian
Securities Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon, or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries, as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economy. for the current fiscal year and
subsequent periods and which in turn are
based on our experience and perception
of historical trends, current conditions
and expected future developments as well
as other factors management believes are
appropriate in the circumstances. The
estimates, beliefs, and assumptions of
Brookfield Corporation are inherently
subject to significant business,
economic, competitive, and other
uncertainties and contingencies
regarding future events and as such are
subject to change. Forward-looking
statements are typically identified by
words such as expect, anticipate,
believe, foresee, could, estimate, goal,
intend, plan, seek, strive, will, may,
and should, and similar expressions. In
particular, the forward-looking
statements contained in this letter
include statements referring to the
impact of current market or economic
conditions on our business, the future
state of the economy or the securities
market, the anticipated allocation and
deployment of our capital, our liquidity
and ability to access and raise capital,
our fundraising targets, our target
growth objectives, our target carried
interest, and the impact of acquisitions
and dispositions on our business.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions,
including acquisitions and dispositions,
the ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations, and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. One,
operational and reputational risks. 1
one technological change. One, two,
changes in government regulation and
legislation within the countries in
which we operate. 1 3 governmental
investigations and sanctions. 14
litigation. 15 changes in tax laws. 1
six ability to collect amounts owed. 1 7
catastrophic events such as earthquakes,
hurricanes, and epidemics, pandemics. 1
eight. The possible impact of
international conflicts and other
developments including terrorist acts
and cyber terrorism. 1. Nine. The
introduction, withdrawal, success and
timing of business initiatives and
strategies. 20 the failure of effective
disclosure controls and procedures and
internal controls over financial
reporting and other risks. Twoon health,
safety, and environmental risks. Two two
the maintenance of adequate insurance
coverage. Two, three, the existence of
information barriers between certain
businesses within our asset management
operations. 24 risks specific to our
business segments including asset
management, wealth solutions, renewable
power and transition, infrastructure,
private equity, real estate and
corporate activities, and 25 factors
detailed from time to time in our
documents filed with the securities
regulators in Canada and the United
States.
We caution that the foregoing list of
important factors that may affect future
results is not exhaustive and other
factors could also adversely affect
future results. Readers are urged to
consider these risks as well as other
uncertainties, factors, and assumptions
carefully in evaluating the
forward-looking statements and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information. Future performance
is not indicative nor a guarantee of
future results. There can be no
assurance that comparable results will
be achieved in the future, that future
investments will be similar to historic
investments discussed herein, that
targeted returns, growth objectives,
diversification, or asset allocations
will be met, or that an investment
strategy or investment objectives will
be achieved because of economic
conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved. Due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes, including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control, the
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation, or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved, and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. All references to asset
monetizations include completed
transactions and transactions in the
process of being completed. When we
speak about our wealth solutions
business or Brookfield Wealth Solutions,
we are referring to Brookfield's
investments in this business that
supported the acquisitions of its
underlying operating subsidiaries.
Cautionary statement regarding the use
of nonFRS measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS. We caution readers
that these nonifrs financial measures or
other financial metrics are not
standardized under IFRS and may differ
from the financial measures or other
financial metrics disclosed by other
businesses and as a result may not be
comparable to similar measures presented
by other issuers and entities. We make
reference to distributable earnings
which refers to the sum of distributable
earnings from our asset management
business, distributable operating
earnings from our wealth solutions
business, distributions received from
our ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans, capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonFRS measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's
quarter 42025 press release, which
includes reconciliations of these nonFRS
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
