[music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives.
Today we're bringing you another edition
of DLD Brief where we unpack recent
transactions with the people who put
them together. On this episode, [music]
we're diving into our growing presence
across Southeast Asia with three recent
investments [music] that mark important
growth in Brookfield's Catalytic
Transition Fund or CTF.
Joining me today are Dan Chang and
Stephan Ozi from our renewable power and
transition group who are closely
involved in shaping our entry into this
energy transition market and the broader
opportunity set across the region.
[music]
Dan Stef, welcome to the podcast. So to
kick things off, can you share a little
bit about your background and what you
do at Brookfield?
>> I'm Stephan Gatsi. I am a senior vice
president in Brookfield Renewable Power
and Transition Group. I'm based out of
our Singapore office and I lead our
investment activities in the Southeast
Asia region.
>> And thanks for having us. My name is
Daniel. I'm a mentioning partner at
Brookfield also in the same business
group as Steph. I've been with the firm
for 10 years. Actually started in
Toronto and then moved over here to Asia
to help the business grow in the region
about 7 to 8 years ago. I have two
roles. The first is really the head of
the country for our title business and
then the other one is I lead our
investing and asset management
activities across Asia pack for power
and transition. So listen, you both are
in the region before we dig into the
specifics across that base. It probably
would be helpful for our listeners to
zoom out a little bit and just revisit
what the catalytic transition fund is
because we last talked about this on the
podcast in depth over a year ago around
New York City climate week. So it would
just be helpful to get a refresher from
you to walk us through the strategy.
What makes it unique? What kinds of
investments are we typically looking at
through CTF as we call it versus others?
Dan, do you want to start?
>> Yeah, for sure. CTF or the catalytic
transition fund is really Brookfield's
primary vehicle for accelerating
investments into decarbonization
solutions in emerging markets. This
include for us under the strategy Latin
America, India and obviously this part
of the world in Southeast Asia. Some of
the unique aspects about this fund to
your question, it is a dual objective
fund. So in addition to these financial
metrics, we also look to deliver a very
meaningful decarbonization impact that
has to be measurable. It can be
reported, it can be tracked and it can
be audited in the very same way as the
financial return, the metrics. And
there's other very interesting
characteristics that it might just be
worthwhile to touch on and worth a
refresh. The first one being I would say
this is probably the most unique aspect
about this fund which is it was seated
by our strategic partner called
Alterara. And Alterara for those don't
know they're one of the largest if not
the largest climate private funds around
the world. And they were established
coming out of COP 28 a few years ago.
that gave us a billion dollars of equity
capital commitment to really anchor this
strategy. The other thing I would say is
uh this fund is a commercial fund when
we're investing emerging technologies.
It's all very mature decarbonization
technologies where it's commercially
scalable, it's investable and so we
don't want to take that binary
technology downside risk.
>> Steph is there anything you would add on
top of that for you? Yeah, and the thing
I would add is the size of this fund
will be up to $5 billion, which putting
in perspective, it's smaller than our
global fund that has just closed at $20
billion. But what this gives us is uh
[snorts] actually the ability to make
smaller investments uh in the range of
around $2 to $300 million which are
exactly the sweet spot of where we see
opportunities in emerging markets. And
so this gives us the flexibility to
partner with local player to back
management and to acquire single assets
and deploy around that capital. That is
where essentially we see opportunities.
Yeah, that's a great segue because I
want to get into these deals and talk
with you a little bit about some of the
proof points for CTF that we've had most
recently. Solarvest, Alba, Gylight. We
don't always cover multiple transactions
when we talk about deals, but I think
there is benefit to looking at them as a
group given they're all part of CTF and
you all can probably help unpack what
about them is similar and what about
them is maybe distinct or unique
depending upon the company. So Steph,
I'll throw it to you. Yeah, look, we
have been really busy in the past 12
months in Southeast Asia and as you have
mentioned, we have recently completed
the three investments in our target
markets in the region which are
Philippines, Malaysia, Vietnam and
Thailand. And maybe starting with
Malaysia and the transaction we have
done with Solarvest. So with solar vest
we have created a joint venture to
develop build and operate over 1.5
gawatt of solar farms and battery
storage asset across peninsula Malaysia
and for who doesn't know solar vest they
are one of the leading EPC and renewable
developer in Malaysia and with them we
have created this JV which is really
targeted to provide green power to
industrial and data center customer who
have heavily invested in Malaysia in the
past 3 to 5 years. And a key reason that
we like Malaysia is because it's one of
Southeast Asia's most active and policy
supported renewable energy markets. The
government has set an ambitious target
of achieving 70% of renewable capacity
by 2050. And then as I mentioned,
Malaysia has emerged as one of the key
data center hub in Southeast Asia, which
means that many of our large corporate
clients and often on the power side such
as the big tech companies have invested
heavily in the country. And so we have
an opportunity to provide them green
power in Southeast Asia as well. And
this JV with SolarBest combines both
SolarB strong local presence and project
pipeline in Malaysia with Brookfield
global expertise in renewable access to
our cooperative takes relationships and
our ability to mobilize capital at
scale. Now the other transaction we have
recently completed is in the Philippines
and in Thailand we have acquired a
company called Alba Renewables. Alba is
a rapidly growing renewable energy
developer with a presence in the
Philippines and Thailand. Alba has one
utility scale solar asset in
construction that will reach operation
later this year. But more importantly,
they have a large pipeline of wind,
solar, battery assets worth around 2 GT.
And to put this in context, 2 GT of
renewable capacity is enough to power
more than 1 million households in the
Philippines. So just to give the context
of the scale that we are talking about,
Alba was funded and owned by an
experienced management team who have a
strong track record in renewable in
Southeast Asia and what they were
looking for is really an investor that
could help them to scale providing the
capital as well as the capabilities to
reach a certain scale in the region. So
now we have acquired a controlling stake
in the company. Management is still
running the business and they have
remained as a minority investor in the
business. And what we look to do in the
next 3 to 5 year is really uh convert
this project pipeline into construction
and operation and transform the business
in one of the leading renewable
developer and IP in the region.
>> I think this steel is one of our first
in these countries is it not?
>> Yes, absolutely. This is one of our
first investment in Philippines and
Thailand which are two focus countries
in Southeast Asia for the CTF. We
actually used to own some assets in
Thailand some years ago as part of a
global portfolio but this is one of the
first true entry in the country through
a standalone investment and platform.
The last deal this time is in in
Vietnam. We have acquired a 100 megawatt
operating wind farm in the central part
of the country and this asset has a
long-term offtake contract which
provides stability and visibility of
cash flows as well as a few years of
operating track record. Now, similar to
Malaysia, Vietnam offers a huge
potential under the corporate PPA
framework given that the country is one
of the faster growing in the region and
many of our key corporate customers have
large industrial presence in Vietnam and
they have a huge demand for green
energy. And so we will use this asset
that we have recently acquired as a
cornerstone to build a strategy in a
platform in Vietnam and advance
development activities across renewable
and battery assets. Also as part of this
acquisition, one of our key pillars of
the investment thesis is to use our
operating capabilities in the wind
sector to improve the generation and
operating performance of this asset as
well as expand the capacity of the asset
using existing land and great
infrastructure which we look to do in
the near future. So to sum it up, all of
these transaction are good example of
how Brookfield will invest in the region
and our flexibility to acquire a
company, a single asset or to partner
with a best-in-class local player to
deploy our catalytic capital and
leverage our capabilities in the sector.
>> Yeah, I'm struck by the relative
diversity of the companies you just
covered within this area of transition
in the region. We're not just talking
about solar, we're not just talking
about wind. It's a pretty mixed
portfolio. And I'm curious how these
proof points and recent transactions sit
within the broader context of the
transition opportunity in this region,
how we might see it depending upon the
factors or the environments or some of
those things relative to other parts of
the world. Could you guys give us just
some context on that where these sit
within transition overall in this region
versus where we look at things more
globally?
>> Yeah, for sure. I can start. Very good
question. And I would say maybe a few
things and maybe if I can take a step
back, we will admit Southeast Asia is
quite a new region for Brookfield. And
so the three investments that we've made
as Steph within detail just a few
moments ago. If we look at the three
investments, they all fall into our
clean energy bucket in terms of
investment themes. Clean energy is
effectively wind, solar, batteries. And
the reason we did that in this part of
the world first is while we have a very
diverse business in decarbonization
transition by a large margin we have the
longest track record history investing
in your traditional renewable energy
sources. And so this is very down the
fairway for us very natural. We wanted
to make sure as a new region we'll get
our foot in the door. We have boots on
the ground. We have a local presence in
each of these markets. So that will
better position us to screen
opportunities, underwrite them and
execute them. Staff can probably talk to
this in a little bit more detail, but if
you look at our pipeline of investments
at the moment for CTF outside of the
clean energy bucket, it's also very
diverse around business transformation
and sustainable solution themes as well.
Steph, it would be great to hear from
you a little bit more about the other
opportunities in the set in the region
and maybe also some of the contextual
elements unique to Southeast Asia that
we might not say the same for Europe or
the Middle East for example.
>> Yeah, and that's a very interesting
point. Maybe let me start with the
broader context on Southeast Asia. And
Southeast Asia is a very large and
diverse region, 11 countries, 700
million people which accounts for
roughly 10% of the world population. The
region has been growing very fast and it
has become one of the largest engine of
energy demand globally and there is a
large imbalance between energy demand
and energy supply which creates a really
compelling opportunities to invest in
the energy transition and clean energy
sector. On the other end, governments
have announced and rolled out policies
and framework to incentivize investment
into the renewable space. And so most of
these countries are now investable at
scale. And it's not only on the
government side, but also on the
corporate side, as we mentioned before,
there is strong demand from corporates
around the world who have invested in
Southeast Asia and demand security of
energy and green energy in particular.
So this creates a perfect catalyst for
Brookfield to expand our investment
activities in the region leveraging our
global expertise as well as our boots on
the ground. So we at Brookfield have set
up a team based out of Singapore to
cover Southeast Asia and that's not only
on the investment side but we have also
added expertise across asset management,
engineering and technical services,
legal and tax among other to make sure
that we are appropriately set up to
cover the region.
>> How do you think about quote unquote
what's next maybe for CTF and let's just
say more broadly in the region? what's
intriguing you as you think about where
we've been and maybe what we've been
able to complete more recently and what
lies ahead.
>> First and foremost, we are really
excited for the investment that we have
recently made and we look forward to
growing those platform in the region.
But on top of that, we have a very deep
project and asset pipeline across the
three verticals that CTF can invest in
and is not only on the renewable energy
side but also on the sustainable
solution and business transformation.
sustainable solution which are sectors
and technologies that are critical for
the energy transition and have
infrastructure like characteristics such
as long-term contracts and stability of
cash flows and those sectors are things
like bofuel and biogas hydrogen and
carbon capture investments across the EV
and battery value chain and Brookfield
has made these investments in these
technologies in other parts of the world
and we are actively looking to leverage
our internal and know how and expertise
to access opportunities in this sector
in this part of the world. And the third
segment is business transformation which
is really partnering with or buying
carbonintensive businesses and helping
them to decarbonize. As they mentioned
before, we recognize that sometimes we
need to go where the emissions are in
order to facilitate the transition net
zero and this can mean owning emission
intensive companies for a period of time
but with a clear business plan to
transition and decorize them and so we
are actively looking at investment in
these sectors in the region which is
extremely exciting in this part of the
world. I think one of the very scarce
phenomenas that we have seen on the
ground is when we think about emerging
markets, we're not targeting every
single emerging market around the world.
We're being very selective. Latm it's
not the entire continent. We mainly look
at Colombia, Chile, Brazil, geographies
where they're large when we have boots
on the ground and business on the ground
already. The same goes for India. In
Southeast Asia as a whole, these are
very very large end markets because you
have a growing population, a rising
middle class, the economy as measured by
GDPs increasing a pace that's faster
than most parts of the rest of the
world. And when we think about these
trends around industrialization and
digitalization and the broader trend
around electrification, the massive
increases in energy demand is going to
be met with power or electricity. So the
reason that we're really excited is why
you can invest in growth in this part of
the world but because of the earlier
comment that we made around scarcity of
capital or chronic underinvestment in
trends in this part of the world as well
for the right investors with the capital
and the capabilities you can really
identify opportunities for value and
usually those two things don't happen
hand in hand you can either invest in
value or growth but I think in Southeast
Asia you can do both so that's very
exciting for us and I think we're just
starting with the three investment
making region.
>> Well, thank you both for joining today.
It was great to have you.
>> Thank you. Thanks for the time.
>> Thank you, Madid.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation
