[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. Today we have
another edition of Deal Debrief, where
we get the download on recent
transactions from the people who put
them together.
On this episode, we're discussing
Brookfield's recent acquisition of
Generator, a hostel owner and operator
with 15 locations and more than 2,800
rooms across Europe. Lauren Okata Young
and Lee Zang from our real estate group
are here to share hospitality sector
trends and the opportunities ahead for
the hostile segment.
Lauren and Lee, welcome to the podcast.
Just to kick off, can you all introduce
yourselves and tell people what you do
at Brookfield?
>> I'm Lauren Okata Young. I'm a managing
director in the London office and I'm
responsible for European hospitality and
housing investments. I joined Brookfield
over 13 years ago in the real estate
investments team back in New York. I
then moved over to London in 2016 and
I've been part of building out the
European real estate platform which
includes investments such as Student
Roost and Eden amongst others.
>> My name is Lee Zang. I joined Brookfield
in 2016. Similar to Lauren, I started in
New York, but spent quite a bit longer
out there. So, I relocated here in 2022
and have been in London for about 3
years now. And my focus is purely on the
acquisition side for launching across
Europe.
>> Great. We're going to dig into
Generator, which obviously is a more
recent transaction for your team, but
just to set the stage and to give our
listeners some context, can you all just
help us understand what is Generator as
a company? What do they do?
>> Generator is a leading European
lifestyle hostel platform. Today, it has
15 assets spanning across 10 countries
primarily in Europe and totals around
2,800 rooms and most of its focus are in
the key gateway urban cities in its
respective markets. The portfolio, I
would say, is mostly owned assets and
freehold and includes the likes of
Paris, London, Dublin, Berlin, and Rome.
And it's an interesting business model
in that it's a mix of a hostel and a
hotel. So 38% of the rooms are private
and the rest are shared beds that are
sold on an individual bed basis. What
makes this different than some of the
other hosts out there is that it's a
more premium concept and more lifestyle
oriented. So it's designled. It has a
strong FnB offering and it really serves
as a social hub for a younger audience
of social and group travelers. And at
the same time with its larger bed counts
in some of the rooms both private and
public, it also caters well to families
that are seeking a good value
proposition. The hostels also work for
education and sports groups given its
affordability and it creates some
countercyclical elements in its demand
source.
>> I think what's really interesting about
generators assets is that they're
designled and have these popular
restaurant offerings, vibrant social
hubs, and so they do tend to attract a
younger audience of solo and group
travelers. But to Lee's point also can
cater to travelers of all ages and
demographics. I think what's really
interesting economically about the model
is that by selling by the bed or the
room, it inherently means that the
offering is affordable and it's
accessible for a variety of different
guests. So all the properties are well
amenitized with these vibrant FnB and
social outlets which create a strong
experience for travelers. It's something
that we've been monitoring on a broader
basis within Brookfield. The space of
hostiles in Europe and globally is quite
fragmented. So there's very few groups
that own and/or operate more than a
handful of properties which provides an
opportunity for generator to be quite
visible and has really made it a pioneer
in the space that we already have 15
assets with this type of reach across
the gateway cities. For generator to
have 15 locations and to operate across
10 countries, there are very few other
groups that have anywhere near that
scale. As I mentioned previously, most
of the other hostile operators are
either oneoffs or they have maybe a
portfolio of two or three, maybe five
assets. And I think in addition to that,
generator also tends to have larger
assets which generate economies of scale
in terms of efficiencies and operational
scaling. So I think it lends itself for
dominance in the market now, but with an
opportunity to further pursue growth
given that brand name. You mentioned
counteryclical elements and obviously
travel in particular coming out of the
pandemic years has been a really
transformative trend and frankly there's
been a a whole host of dynamics that
probably we haven't seen in quite some
time in particular in that sector. So it
would be helpful also to talk a little
bit about that context relative to this
business and fundamentally how that's
really changing this segment even within
the overall sector. Since the pandemic,
we've seen what we like to refer to as
the new normal with consumers seeking
experiences more and more over their
pursuits in material goods. This has
driven a huge demand in European
hospitality and across the leisure
industries as well. So if we look at
Europe post pandemic, we've observed
highly favorable demand fundamentals
across the hospitality sector and we
start to see Europe continuing to
attract more and more travelers and
consumers as a vacation destination. We
expect that the consumer spending going
forward will continue to go towards
European hospitality and that that will
continue to grow at healthy levels which
has translated for our sector into
healthy growth. While the rate of
consumer spending on European
hospitality is expected to nearly double
between 2024 levels to 2029 2030. This
is translating for us into healthy
average daily rates or ADR which is a
common metric that we use to value the
top line of hotel performance and we're
starting to see this particularly in
upscale and upper upscale classes. We
have some context now about the space in
general and hospitality broadly. How did
we think about generator in the context
of Brookfield and what made us
particularly interested in this space
and this deal opportunity?
>> I think this is a space that we've
always been interested in and for quite
a number of years actually. This is the
first deal that Lauren and I worked on
collectively and it was about 7 years
ago I think and then we proceeded to
look at it multiple times over the past
seven years before we finally had the
chance to acquire it. So it's a sector
that we've studied closely and followed
for quite a while. And one of the things
that Lauren mentioned earlier really
resonates which is it's quite a
fragmented sector when you look at it
today. So the amount of atcale larger
more institutional quality owners and
operators within the hostile sector is
relatively limited. I think generator
was one of the few operators that was
really running this well and it also
differentiated themselves from a brand
perspective and really being early into
more of the designled experienceoriented
brand component and also really focusing
on these larger urban destinations. So
we really like those aspects of it. And
over that period of time, we had a
chance to build a strong relationship
with the management team. And when we
finally had a chance to acquire it, we
went through a public bid process
towards the end of 2024. Ultimately lost
and had assumed that the other buyer was
going to proceed forward and buy the
company. And then in February of this
year, we got a call saying that, hey,
the buyer isn't proceeding forward.
Would you guys be interested in
re-engaging? And I think that's where
our reputation as a counterparty that
can move quickly, can transact,
especially with complex investments like
this one at scale really help keep us
around the table and forefront in terms
of sellers and advisers minds when
things don't necessarily work out. So
from February, we effectively re-engaged
fairly quickly and from a standing start
went on an all-out sprint and managed to
close this over the course of the
summer. So, I think it's a good example
of what Brookfield does well and why
we've been able to ultimately buy some
of these companies.
>> You just gave a really helpful preview
of why we were a great match ultimately
for Generator, especially when the
opportunity came back around
unexpectedly, and I'm wondering how we
might define why Generator's business
and ultimately the fundamentals are a
good match for Brookfield and how we
like to invest. Can you tell us a little
bit more about that? generator has
exposure to key European markets that
have high barriers to entry and very
attractive supply and demand
fundamentals and that's coupled with on
a go forward basis a pretty high growth
expectation. The business is focused on
quite a resilient model which is
operating in supply constrained markets
and it benefits from strong
counteryclical demand as we mentioned
earlier which is also coupled with
demand from group travelers to
supplement the transient leisure guests.
The company's operating model is quite
efficient from the perspective that it
has a ofcale brand that outperforms
other properties in a fragmented market.
So, generator actually competes from a
pricing perspective against upscale
hotels through the sale of their
individual beds in shared rooms. So, for
instance, the shared room rates at a
generator typically average about 30 per
bed. That means that if you have six
beds in a room, you can generate a
revenue per room of €180.
But with those six people sharing a
room, they're likely to also use the
common spaces, spend at the FNB outlets,
and contribute to an overall higher
total revenue per available room, which
makes this business model quite
economically attractive.
>> And I think maybe the other thing worth
adding on to that is because it's such a
good business model, we think it works
well for both the consumers, but it also
works well for real estate owners, not
just ourselves, but also external
constituents. And so when we think about
looking forward the potential for the
company, we think it's a great existing
portfolio of assets that we've bought
from a real estate perspective, but
there's also significant growth to be
had because this business model can be
replicated in other assets whether we
buy it or whether they're owned by third
parties and they've just started down
the path on that. And today there's two
third party management agreements that
they have with fairly institutional and
sizable owners. And I think both of
those have been pretty happy with what
generator has been able to deliver
financially and operationally in terms
of creating value in their real estate.
So that's a piece that we think could
continue to scale both organically
through what we call asset light growth
whether that's through new management
agreements or new leases and then also
through asset heavy growth which is
where we would leverage our capital and
balance sheet and deploy to buy
additional real estate and grow the
company.
>> Yeah, nice to have options and as you
said we're at this juncture where the
deal is done we get to look ahead. What
are some of the other things that we're
maybe eyeing or prioritizing as we
partner even more closely with generator
and the team?
>> I think for us today there's a bit of
work to be done on the existing
portfolio what we would call some TLC or
tender loving care from a capital
investment perspective. So just
modernizing the product, continuing to
keep it relevant for today's generation
and the shift in consumer interest and
also upgrading and modernizing some of
the components that while they were
innovative 7 to 10 years ago are more
common place in the industry today. So
there's capital investment in the
existing assets to keep the brand and
the assets relevant. And then as just
mentioned there'll be a lot of focus on
growth both on asset heavy and asset
light. I'd just add what we'll look to
do is to leverage our experience at
Brookfield in terms of building
institutional quality platforms and
bringing our best-in-class procedures
around the core areas of the business.
So, we really respect what the generator
management team has done over the last
10 years. They've built an incredible
business that we really rate. But I
think a huge part of this is while we're
looking to transform some of the
existing assets and grow at a
substantial scale, we want to make sure
that we're not losing the identity of
Generator as a brand or the best
practices that the team has already
done. We will look to supplement that
and grow that alongside the growth of
the portfolio. We've had other teams on
here and it sounds like this is another
one of those like taking something from
good to great. like it's already really
solid and it's really just about letting
it get to its natural next evolution.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think what the team
did really well is first identified
fantastic real estate across key gateway
cities. They then learned how to manage
it in a marketleading way, but we
believe that there's a next step that we
can take as Brookfield to help continue
the institutionalization of this
platform while we scale it. So, it's a
great place to be and a really fortunate
opportunity for us to work with such an
amazing company. That's exciting. As you
said, you've been tracking the space a
long time and the actual process to get
the deal done maybe took longer even
than you expected. Is there anything you
learned through diving into this sector
or this company that surprised you that
you didn't expect or that you thought
might go a certain way that maybe went
totally the opposite way?
>> Yeah, so I have one kind of fun fact.
Starting with the sector, we always knew
that the majority of the business would
be your earliest traveler, whether
that's under 18 or just over. But
surprisingly, as we look across the
demographics of the existing business,
around 6% of the demand is actually from
customers over the age of 50. And when
we look at over 40, that's about 14% of
the business. So I think part of that is
families that are taking their kids and
extended family travel, but you also do
have some solo older travelers that are
taking the shared beds and the shared
rooms. And I think they enjoy the social
aspect of it. And based on talks with
management, they effectively become
somewhat of a group mom or grandma or
granddad for the other younger folks
that are there, giving them guidance
around things to do and tips and so on.
>> I have to say that after almost a decade
of studying the business and following
it from afar, we spent a lot of time
getting to know the sector and the
business. So there's definitely a ton to
learn, but there hasn't been too much of
a surprise, at least for me personally
to date. I think there will be a lot of
things to uncover along the way and
we're really looking forward to digging
into executing our business plan. But so
far I think it's a great fit for
Brookfield in terms of the business
model, the locations and there
opportunity for us to add value through
growth and through our operational
expertise. So honestly, no major
surprises or roadblocks so far, but I'm
really excited to see where it'll go. Do
you guys get to go and spend a research
night in a generator location? Has
anyone done any on the ground research?
We've seen all the assets over the years
and actually a decent amount of the team
has gone and seen some of them
subsequent to the acquisition. So yeah,
we do get to see them which is quite
nice and they're all quite full of life
in terms of not only the number of
people in the property, but there's
definitely an atmosphere in the common
areas in the FnB whether that's a bar or
the restaurant.
>> Cool. All right. Well, I'll put on my
list. I got to plan my next trip. Now I
know where to go. It was really great to
have you both. Thank you for joining us
today. Great.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thanks so much for having us.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks, including loss of the
entire investment.
[Music]
