Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast [music] that explores the
Brookfield ecosystems role in creating
sustainable wealth on a global scale.
On [music] today's episode, the topic is
power and just how much of it we'll need
to sustain major growth in [music]
populations, electrification, and
artificial intelligence. To discuss this
energy ecosystem, we're joined by Scott
[music] Peak and Natalie Adomate, two
leaders in our infrastructure and
renewable power businesses who [music]
are here to share their unique insights
on how Brookfield is helping to turn
[music] the immense need for power into
action.
Natalie and Scott, welcome to the
podcast. It's great to have you here
with us today. I think it would be great
to start and just have you both
introduce yourselves. Natalie, do you
want to start?
>> Sure. Natalie Automate. the chief
operating officer in our renewable power
and transition group. So that means I
oversee our global asset management
teams which is the team that drives the
strategy and execution of our business
plans.
>> Scott Peak, I've been with Brookfield
for 10 years. I'm president and head of
the Americas for Brookfield's
Infrastructure Group where I oversee the
region and lead our infrastructure
investment strategy.
>> Great. Well, we have the two people we
need for this conversation because this
episode is all about power and how much
that has changed in a very short period
of time. So, it would be great to set
the stage and help us understand what is
actually happening in the energy market
globally and the forces that are driving
that demand for power. Well, the short
answer to your question is that the
world's economy requires significantly
more power than what's currently
available. And therefore, all sources of
electricity generation are necessary,
whether it be renewables, gas fired,
nuclear, fuel cells, or beyond. And
importantly, most segments of the
infrastructure value chain beyond power
are also necessary. Think mid-stream
assets, transmission, distribution,
utilities, and data and digital
infrastructure. If we had this
conversation at various points over the
past I don't know 20 plus years I've
worked across a sector the conclusions
would be different as historically
electricity demand particularly in the
US was stable with predictable demand
drivers. If you pull up a chart of
long-term US electricity demand you'd
see historically it's effectively a flat
line with about 1% annual electricity
load growth. And while we've experienced
population growth and proliferation of
electricity consuming residential and
industrial assets, that new demand was
largely offset by efficiency gains. But
we're now approaching a step change for
power demand. In the US, the historical
1% load growth is now forecast long-term
to be closer to 3 and a half. Meaning in
10 years, US electricity demand is
expected to be approaching 40% above
today's levels, which implies over 170
incremental gaws of new power generation
that does not exist today. The most
pronounced electricity demand shift is
occurring in the US as it's where most
of the hypers scale technology companies
are based and thus the main market
they've chosen for their AI development.
AI training and inference is leading to
rapid development of green field AI
factories i.e. the large data center
campuses supporting AI and the power
hungry compute residing inside them. In
addition, the continuing shift to cloud
data storage require significant non-AI
data centers. There's also continued
expansion of electrified transportation
and EVs and new industrial load from the
push to increase domestic manufacturing.
But data centers are ultimately the key
contributor and their power requirements
have changed. They're getting larger in
physical size. The amount of power they
require is growing exponentially to meet
more nuanced AI requirements. So this
exponential growth just for new data
centers is forecast to represent about
50% of the incremental electricity load
in the US over the next 5 years. Back to
your global question, global electricity
demand is forecast to increase 50% over
the next 10 years with data centers
growing from 2% of global power
consumption to approximately 10% by
2030. And this increase in electricity
demand is leading to an unprecedented
domino effect on the electricity grid
and infrastructure more broadly. So we
not only need much more electricity
generation, but we need much more of all
the infrastructure enabling electricity
to be produced, transported and stored.
And the consequential capital
requirements are staggering. Yes, they
are. Especially given where we are
versus where we need to be based on some
of the numbers you cite. Natalie, are
there any other drivers or any other
dynamics for where we are versus where
we need to go?
>> I think Scott did a fantastic overview
of where the demand is really coming
from and I think what we've seen change
across the sector. To put it very
simply, given the vast amount of power
demand and the demand drivers that we're
seeing, the real bottleneck for a lot of
these new industries, for the
electrification of manufacturing, for
the onoring of domestic production, for
digitalization and data center buildout,
power is the bottleneck and with that
comes a huge investment opportunity.
Now, I think one interesting perspective
to think about, this is absolutely going
to be an all of the- above energy
solution that needs to meet the
challenge ahead of us, what's going to
matter to the major buyers of power as
they're balancing where that source of
energy is going to come from is a few
things. First, what is the cost? What is
the fastest available power source to
come to market as they're building out
data centers and need that power very
quickly? and what power sources can
provide with the best reliability
because increasingly data centers are
requiring 24/7 99% availability in their
power supply to keep those functions
running. So we think we're going to see
an increasing shift across all energy
sources. We think renewables has a huge
role to play here. It is the cheapest.
It is the fastest to market and it can
be used in combination with other
technologies like gas, nuclear, hydro,
batteries to meet that reliability
requirement as well. So it really is an
all of the above approach. I think the
one other trend as well that's probably
worth mentioning is energy security.
Over the last few years, we've really
seen countries move away from that
singular dependence on imported fossil
fuels. Renewables has allowed countries
to diversify their energy supply and
really tap into those natural resources
that have zero input costs and don't
rely on foreign sources of power. I
think that is increasingly an additional
driver we are seeing for renewable
energy built out on a global basis.
>> Cost, speed, and reliability. These
really important vectors whether it's
for countries, governments, corporates,
privates, etc. So, let's step in and
talk a little bit about Brookfield, what
our role is, and what role we play in
meeting this growing demand and these
key vectors that everyone is looking to
for their power sources.
>> For decades, Brookfield has been a
global leader in investing in critical
power and infrastructure. as context.
Institutionally, we pay particular
attention when capital needs are large
and access to deep sector expertise in
global operating capabilities are needed
as these are areas where Brookfield is
differentiated. And in terms of large
capital needs, trillions of dollars are
required to develop AI factories in
large industrial manufacturing. Further
trillions are required to build the
power and the transmission and
distribution utility infrastructure. And
even more is needed for new digital
infrastructure to transport the data
created to our phones and desktops via
new tower infrastructure and fiber
connections. We've made a number of
investments relevant for this discussion
recently, such as our $5 billion
strategic partnership with Bloom Energy,
which makes fuel cells, which deliver
reliable, scalable, and clean on-site
power that can be rapidly deployed
without legacy grids, or our $22 billion
joint venture with First Energy
Transmission, which brings long-term
grid reliability and capacity in one of
the largest regions in the US. The
companies we own and operate are highly
relevant to meeting the growing energy
demand. They include six leading data
center platforms across five continents.
We have millions of utility fiber and
smart meter connections. We have a
portfolio of hundreds of thousands of
towers and we have tens of thousands of
kilometers of gas pipelines.
>> That is a lot of transmission obviously
needs. Natalie, I'm curious where does
the renewable power generation element
sit within that overall chain? Can you
help us just understand where we started
and then where we are today?
>> Yeah, sure. And I'll go back to a point
we made earlier. Power ultimately is the
bottleneck for a lot of the other
industries and to meet all of the demand
that we've talked about. And as we
talked about, if you're a buyer of
power, you're looking for those
solutions that are fastest market,
cheapest, and the most reliable. And of
course, if you're a government, you're
also looking at energy security.
Renewables is the easy winner on three
of those criteria. Renewables is the
cheapest form of energy available in
most markets today. The levelized cost
of energy for solar continues to come
down. It's 90% down since 2009. Wind is
down 70% since 2009. And it's also the
fastest to build. Takes 12 to 24 months
to build a new wind or solar project
rather than years and years of
permitting for other technologies. And
if you look at 2024, I think it was 90%
of the capacity added in the US was
renewables. You can't just turn off that
supply source and continue to meet the
demand that we've seen over the past
decade, but incrementally so the demand
that we're expected to see in growth
terms over the coming decade that Scott
talked about already. We're also seeing
the cost of batteries come down quite
significantly. We've seen a 70% decline
since 2016. And the ability to pair that
lowcost renewable source with these new
technologies like battery means you can
increasingly meet that reliability
objective we talked about as well. Maybe
interesting to note for those that might
be a little bit less familiar with
Brookfield and our power portfolio and
the power side of our business. We
actually started investing in power over
a hundred years ago. So before the term
renewable power was even mainstream, we
actually started out in hydro which was
the original renewable technology. These
assets, we liked them because they
fulfilled all the criteria we look for
in an energy infrastructure investment.
They're lowcost source of power. They're
longdated cash flows. These are
unlimited life assets if you maintain
them well. And they often also have
embedded storage capability. So they
provide an incredible grid stabilizing
service at the same time. Since then,
our business has of course expanded
quite significantly and today across the
world we have over 46 gawatt of
operating capacity. We have over 200
gawatts of development capacity and
that's across hydro, wind, solar,
batteries and we also invest in a range
of other energy technologies and this is
including recycling, bio gas,
sustainable aviation, carbon capture and
nuclear as well. So we've got an
incredible diverse exposure to all of
the trends and supplying energy to a
wide number of customers across the
spectrum. When you talk about megawatts
and gigawatts of that scale, for those
listening, can you put some context
around the step change in that scale for
some of our clients who have that level
of demand of power? Sure. I can give you
a couple of examples. One of the most
exciting things I think we've been able
to do within our portfolios is
increasingly we have moved to a
customerfocused business where we are
working with our partners to provide
flexible, creative, bespoke products to
meet their energy needs. With Microsoft,
we signed a 10.5 gawatt framework
agreement. That's 8 times the largest
ever PPA they had signed before that
deal. And we did this last year. Amazon,
we're now delivering clean energy to
across three continents. And earlier
this year, we signed a firstofits-kind
hydro framework agreement to deliver 3
gawatt of carbon-f free hydroelectric
capacity across the United States. So
these are huge stepups in the scale of
[snorts] demand in the contracts that
we're executing, but also our partners
are executing. And I think that's
reflective of the demand trends that
we're seeing. One of the reasons we've
been particularly privileged to work
with partners like these, but also being
able to supply and meet those solutions
is because of three things. We have a
scale portfolio, so we can do
transactions that are actually
meaningful solutions to energy needs
when you're talking to some of these
largest and most sophisticated buyers of
power. Second, we have decades of
experience in power markets. So we truly
understand the regulatory frameworks and
how to develop these new creative
solutions to meet needs and work with
our customers to understand their
biggest problems. And third, the fact
that across our portfolio, we can
combine technologies to offer a solution
that is lowcost, fast to market through
our renewables pipeline, but also
complement that with solutions from our
hydro, nuclear, gas plus, CCS, or
battery pipelines that provide that
reliability that they're also requiring.
It's a really unique combination that a
lot of other players in the space just
aren't able to provide. And I think that
in particular has been one of the
reasons we've seen these huge step
scales in our partnerships and our
provisions of power.
>> Yeah. So the way you're describing it,
you need to have all of those things in
this chain. If one of them is not quite
up to the level of the others, you're
not going to close the loop, which is
really what we all need.
>> Yes, we do lots of PPAs on a more
bilateral basis and a much smaller
scale. We're also invested in
distributed generations. These are
small-cale rooftops for local industrial
clients, local residential clients or
community offerings. Those are much more
scale and those happen all the time
within our business. When we're thinking
about those large new customers with
that incremental demand that we're
seeing over the coming decade, that's
where providing those scale bespoke
solutions, we're really unique in being
able to offer those. And in particular,
when you combine that with what Scott
and his team are doing, we're not just
providing the power, we're also able to
provide capital for that full digital
solution all the way down. You're
talking about this step change in demand
and the scale both for hyperscalers and
large corporates, governments, etc. And
also that trickle down effect to
communities and sometimes the ultimate
and smaller scale users of this power.
these step changes of this level, they
don't happen all the time and it's
happened in a fairly short period of
time. Scott, you mentioned this rapid
upscale for AI power demand. So, there's
been a lot of activity and change in a
pretty short period of time. And I think
it might raise the question for some of
that mean there's any meaningful step
change or pivot in the overall energy
strategy for these end clients and
customers of ours. Maybe echoing one of
Natalie's earlier points around we're
responding to the demand and we're
responding to our clients and Natalie
outlined a number of the large
partnerships we've done with the
hyperscalers but ultimately behind them
it goes back to data centers where the
scale of the data centers is increasing
exponentially where a large data center
years ago was 35 megawatt 50 megawws and
now a gigawatt data center is on the
front page of the journal every day or
multi-gawatt data centers. So ultimately
the hyperscalers do a lot of contracting
with data centers from a lease capacity
and they also do a lot of self-build and
they need power to run those facilities.
When you're asking about the fuel mix
years ago it was I would like green
power to run those data centers. But
that's evolved from I would like green
power to green power would be great to I
just need power. And so with that,
that's transitioning from renewables and
other traditional sources to when you
look at the shape of the curve and the
base load requirements that these
customers require to run a data center
24/7 with high reliability, intermittent
power, even when coupled with batteries
is just part of the solution, but it's
not the full solution. So again, this
goes back to the comment of any and all
sources of electricity are needed, and
that includes natural gas. In developed
markets, natural gas is now the
established long-term bridge fuel to
meet the growing power demand. While the
world scales renewables and new
technologies in the US, particularly
relevant for new data centers, the
market quickly needs large base load
power sources, and ideally they're clean
and sustainable as possible. So,
renewables will continue to play a large
and growing role. Nuclear will also play
an important role in time, but
ultimately natural gas fire generation
is the cleanest fossil fuel that is
currently scalable. So consequently in
the US gas fired power plants are
forecast to represent around 60% of new
generation sources. And this gas fired
generation will need incremental
midstream assets to supply the natural
gas required to run them such as
pipelines, processing facilities, gas
storage, LG export facilities, and even
LG import facilities in developed
markets outside of the US. We believe
natural gas has long-term relevance as a
transition.
>> Yes. where that conversation started and
how it's really picked up steam over the
last, let's say, five to 10 years has
been also a bit of a step change,
Natalie. Right. This concept of it's not
just going to be all clean and it's not
going to be all what people call dirty.
We're going to have this concept of
transition and transition is going to
mean different things in different
places at different times. That's right.
I want to go back a little bit to what
Scott said. I think he made an excellent
point. Renewables are always going to
play a large role. that's going to be
the first solution for a lot of the
reasons we talked about, but there just
needs to be a step change and more. We
talk about transition. Transition can
mean decarbonization across multiple
different sectors. But if we stay
focused on the power sector in
particular where we started the
conversation, one of the technologies
where we've seen that go through almost
a revolution has been nuclear. Nuclear
also fits a lot of that ability to
provide very large bulk power almost
immediately. This is a fantastic
technology. It is a green source, but it
is also fully base load. It is so
valuable in being able to provide new
incremental sources of power, arguably
over a longer period of time, but once
it's up and operational, these are very
long life assets and they were able to
provide that reliability that we talked
about earlier as well as stabilizing
benefits to the grid within our
portfolio. This is somewhat surprising
in a renewables business, but we
actually have a very large exposure to
the nuclear sector through an ownership
stake in Westinghouse, which is
America's leading nuclear technology
provider. They serve about 2thirds of
the world's nuclear fleet and nearly
half of all reactors with their
technology. And there's huge growth
potential for this technology both in
the US, but also across the globe. We're
seeing a lot of uptake in this. You both
have mentioned a few different examples
of where all of these capabilities and
these areas of expertise converge. I'm
curious if from either one of your
sides, you could just give a real
example for how your two sides of this
coin come together and how you work
together on things projects of this
scale and the level of demand to bring
some of these things to life.
>> I'll say uh we're incredibly integrated.
In fact, our renewable power and
transition group actually was
effectively spun out of our
infrastructure group. So, it's a team
that is very well-versed and familiar
with how we work together. One example I
could share and I won't steal Scott's
thunder and talking a lot about the AI
and obvious intersection that we have on
that front, but one example I would
share is within our transition
portfolio. We have two businesses in the
carbon capture space and one of those
businesses which is called Entropy
specializes in carbon capture for gas
assets. So to talk about a major trend
that Scott flagged as a huge growth area
we're seeing in particular in the US.
This technology we already have a
working facility within this business.
It's up in operational. We're under
construction on our second project which
is a large expansion of the first. It's
a carbon capture technology that's
specifically for gas assets. So that's
hugely complimentary if you're thinking
about quickly adding net new power to
the grid in the form of gas that can
provide that 24/7 power, but over time
looking for that decarbonized
capability. The technology we have
through Entropy is able to provide that
and there's a lot of opportunities for
us to work quite closely with Scott and
his team as they're building out the gas
generation part of the portfolio.
Further,
>> as Natalie mentioned, the renewable and
transition team spun out of
infrastructure. So, working together and
collaborating is second nature and
ultimately renewables need
infrastructure to function, particularly
at scale. Think transmission and utility
grid connectivity. So, our collaboration
is both a necessity and a key
competitive advantage. Working together,
we're able to comprehensively serve the
market with not only capital, but deep
sector and operating expertise. And we
refer to this collaboration as the
Brookfield ecosystem. We have leading
operating platforms of scale in each
sector relevant for the energy market.
And as Natalie alluded to, we are
launching a new AI fund strategy, which
is a natural extension of our platform
in response to the large capital demand
signal stemming from artificial
intelligence. Think the data center.
Think what goes in the data center and
all of the key infrastructure connected
to the data center and our ability to
collaborate and deliver full service.
across that Brookfield ecosystem is very
powerful. If you step back, our
renewable business is the single largest
provider of green power to the world's
largest technology companies. Our real
estate business leases to the leading
technology companies in our premier
office buildings, our warehouses, and
our science parks. And last but not
least, we're one of the largest owner
operators to data centers around the
world. So, when you combine all of those
together, we have deep relationships
with all the key customers. We have
scale in each of the industry verticals
relevant for energy demand at a scale
that rivals most of the key sector
strategics and we have the sector
expertise in the decades or even
centuries as Natalie alluded to earlier
of experience in these areas as highly
relevant for energy demand.
>> The demand is clear and the velocity of
that demand is clear. Where do we see
the actual interest, the buyin, our
consortium of stakeholders coming to the
table about how to actually fund the
development of this really important
infrastructure and power generation.
>> We have a comprehensive capital offering
across our infrastructure platform and
ultimately each fund and strategy that
we have stemmed from a demand both in
the marketplace as well as from our
investors. So today across
infrastructure we have multiple
strategies across the capital structure.
We have a comprehensive offering where
we can be working with the largest
corporates and governments to address
whatever the capital need is and
sometimes at many points at a time
across the capital structure and across
dedicated funds of scale that can
provide a comprehensive capital solution
and long-term partnership for our
customers. And one thing I would add is
we're always looking for those
incremental vehicles that meet the same
criteria Scott talked about where
there's investor demand, there's
appetite to put new capital to work,
there's attractive fundamental drivers
over the long term and we see a deep
investment pipeline. A great example of
this is spinning off of the flagship
transition funds that we launched in
2021, we have now launched an emerging
market strategy as well. So very similar
focus where we're looking at renewable
energy scaling opportunities as well as
climate and decarbonization
opportunities but very focused on
emerging market economies where we're
seeing a huge amount of growth potential
and a huge demand for the deployment of
renewable energy for the deployment of
new energy efficiency solutions. But we
needed a dedicated pool of capital that
could correctly target the risk returns
we're seeing in those regions and quite
frankly at a ticket size that was more
akin to a slightly smaller strategy than
what we do in our transition vehicle
flagship fund. I'm really taking away
from what you're both saying obviously
at scale but it's also a velocity of
what's going on and how quickly this
flywheel effect is taking Scott as you
said maybe some of these learnings and
these first mover projects in the US but
very quickly extending them wherever
they're needed. I'm just wondering if we
took a step back, what sticks out to
both of you, maybe something you've
learned or what's really exciting, what
you're really looking forward to as we
look ahead given all of the things we've
learned in this very short period of
time overall about this power puzzle and
how we're going to address it.
>> I'm excited about robotics. It's easy, I
guess, to be excited about robots, but
also we see robotics having significant
interplay with the same evolving power
demand story we've been discussing. As
robotics become even more ingrained in
the industrial manufacturing process,
there will be a consequential increase
in power demand. AIdriven robotics
training and inference will require
significant power given the massive
amounts of data that will be involved.
This will require incremental AI
factories be built, incremental power
generation sources, and incremental
infrastructure across the energy value
chain. We don't believe that current
power demand forecasts, as dramatic as
they are, comprehensively incorporate
robotics, as far as we can see. And to
evidence our excitement, we've recently
announced strategic investment in the
robotics company Figure, which is
advancing the development of humanoid
intelligence. And in addition to our
financial investment, we're also helping
enable the robot to perform real world
tasks in human environments across our
asset portfolio. So I can see in a not
too distant future more widespread use
of robotics leading to another global
power demand step change. So we're
really excited about what's
>> a very hard one to follow up with.
Scott's right. It's easy to get excited
about robotics that I am now. Maybe
first I'll actually echo something Scott
said. I think the use cases of AI are
only just starting to show real tangible
benefits within the portfolio and it's
easy to see how as those use cases prove
out and they prove their business value
creation potential, we are going to see
them scale so rapidly and it is going to
become a self-fulfilling solution for
all of the data center buildout that we
are anticipating and seeing already
within our portfolio. Within our
portfolio companies alone, we have
increased by over 140% over the last
year the number of use cases that we
have seen applied across our business
and over 25% of those use cases, a lot
of them are trial and error, but over
25% of them now we are seeing with real
tangible immediate EBIDA improvements
which is really exciting. I was going to
take your question in a different way
though. What are we most excited about
in the next 5 to 10 years? I think it's
going to continue to be working with our
customers and truly doing this in a
scale way and a more creative way going
forward. I think we'll do more hybrid
PPAs. We've done a lot of very large
scale ones on a global basis with some
of our key customers, but we're looking
at it and we're exploring more
opportunities to do PPAs which combined
renewables plus storage. I think we'll
see a lot more of those across the
business. I think increasingly we'll
also move from just serving corporates
which has been a big backbone and driver
of growth but also to start serving
governments and we're already seeing
opportunities to do this in a material
way where we can be the capital provider
as well as the operating expertise that
comes to help to deploy real largecale
solutions on the renewable side but also
on the battery side to help solve some
of the grid imbalance issues that
they're looking for. And I think
increasingly that is just a huge growth
lever for a company like Brookfield that
has the global reach, the scale, the
capital, and the reputation to be able
to deliver. I would add and Natalie
spurred this idea in my head where this
collaboration I'd say that we're seeing
on the renewable side really as a
necessity given the scarcity of power.
I'd be excited to see that spread not
just across power but across
infrastructure more broadly.
Historically on the renewable side, we
would develop a renewable asset and
ultimately sell it to the highest
bidder, which may or may not be one of
our customers. I think now customers are
realizing that they need the power and
the old way of interacting in not
collaborating wasn't efficient for
either one of us. So is there a win-win
way for them to be more transparent
around what their needs are, where their
needs are, and for us therefore to
derisk our development activities and
give them higher certainty on power
where they need it and when they need
it. Seeing that same type of
collaboration, which we never really
seen before, given it was very
proprietary and these large companies
are very almost secretive in their
intentions. I think seeing that with
other large industrial corporates in
terms of their infrastructure needs
would be an interesting next step to see
where not only what their power needs
are in advance, but laying out the
infrastructure to be ready to meet those
power demands wherever they are and
getting really ahead of the curve and
enabling us to be proactive and
collaborating with our customers would
be a great next step for us.
>> Yeah. And as you say, this mindset trip
of it's not a nice to have, it's a need
to have and how do we figure out how to
meet that need and beyond? I think the
necessity is the mother of invention and
that's what we're seeing evolve in the
power space and we may see that evolve
across infrastructure more broadly.
>> Well, I learned a lot from this
conversation. It was really great to
have you both here to educate us on
[music] all that lies ahead. So, thank
you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks very much.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks, including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation.
