Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. Today we have
another edition of Deal Debrief, where
we get the download on recent
transactions from the people who put
them together.
On today's episode, we're exploring the
world of aircraft leasing, an
increasingly critical part of the
aviation economy. Ryan Schwarz, head of
Brookfield's corporate credit group, is
here with us to discuss how we supported
the acquisition of Air Lease
Corporation, a leading player in the
space.
Ryan, welcome to the podcast. Why don't
you introduce yourself to our audience
and tell them what you do at Brookfield?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Hey, I'm Brian
Schwarz. I'm a managing director at
Brookfield and I lead the corporate
credit team. I've been here at
Brookfield for about three and a half
years and prior to this, I led the
direct lending business at Global
Atlantic. Prior to that, I was at Lonear
Funds and their private credit and
special situations investing group. My
team, the corporate credit team,
primarily focuses on three main products
across a range of industries. Those are
direct lending, private investment
grade, and fund finance. In following
the recent news of our acquisition of
Oak Tree's remaining shares, my team
will also work closely with the Oak Tree
team growing our already market leading
credit business.
>> So for those who may not be familiar
with this industry, what does he
Corporation actually do and what role do
they play in the aviation sector?
>> Airlines is an aircraft less sore
founded in 2010. Simply put purchasing
new commercial passenger aircraft from
the aircraft OEMs like Boeing and
Airbus. Then they lease those aircraft
to airline customers globally. It's a
massively diversified business with over
100 airline lees across nearly 60
countries worldwide. very very high
quality fleet with extremely young
aircraft base skewed towards newer gen
aircraft and a longterm weighted average
remaining lease term across its leases
which provides a really strong element
of revenue visibility and cash flow
stability.
>> So really important for people right who
can't buy an entire airplane and hold it
on their balance sheet for a long time.
>> Exactly. and it's critical to the
airline industry so that airlines are
able to grow their businesses without
the financial burden of having to
acquire aircraft.
>> That's a big purchase. It's a big line
item. So, talk to us a little bit about,
like you said, it's a big industry.
There's a lot of these types of firms
like Air Corporation. There's also a lot
of companies looking to lease aircraft.
So, how did we come to finding that this
was a good fit for Brookfield for how we
work? There were a few factors here that
made this a really good fit for
Brookfield. Scale is an important one.
The level of complexity of this
transaction and the industry expertise
that was required here and that we
ultimately brought to the table. The
solution that we provided here which was
a hybrid capital structure. What this is
is really a extremely flexible capital
solution that we would provide typically
to a large creditworthy counterparty.
It's not your vanilla 42 private
placement where you're earning 25 to 50
bit spread premiums to liquids. This is
a much more value added solution and
it's priced at an extremely attractive
spread premium for our clients. When I
use the term of vanilla 482 private
placement, there's a whole market for
these that are really not too dissimilar
to your typical public bond issuances.
They're just private and you're earning
a bit of a spread premium on it, but not
much. And there's no complexity added
besides it not being a public
instrument. Each transaction in this
space is quite bespoke and we're really
structuring each of these to solve a
number of various goals for our
partners. And I use the term partner
here and it's really an important point
is these structures are really akin to
equity transactions and it's really a
long-term partnership model.
>> Got it. And so sounds like you're saying
these solutions like we're talking about
with this one are much more bespoke,
much more specialized, and much more
custom to the partner that you're
working with. Is that right?
>> That's exactly right. I used the term
earlier hybrid capital solutions and
that's really what we're doing here.
We're providing a solution that has
elements that feel like equity to our
counterparties and feel like debt to us.
And when we structure these
appropriately, the risk that we're
taking should be akin to investment
grade credit risk. Pulling all these
together and having all of these points
line up is not an easy task. and they're
highly structured, highly negotiated
transactions, but when they're done
correctly, it's an amazing product for
our clients, for insurance companies in
particular, but really for any type of
investor that has a investment grade
portion to their mandate and is willing
to trade liquidity and take on
incremental complexity for an attractive
spread premium. That could be other
clients besides insurance companies.
Pension funds come to mind as a great
example as well.
>> Yeah. And I I can tell I mean there's a
lot of stakeholders here. There's a lot
of elements to these kinds of deals. Can
you try to paint the picture? How does
something like this come to be also over
time? Who would they even know to go to
at a firm like ours? Or how would all of
these stakeholders that you're talking
about start to come to the table at the
same time and place to work on a
transaction like this?
>> Yeah, it's a great question and they are
longerterm transactions. This one in
particular, the air lease transaction,
my team had been working on this for
over eight months. It was extremely
complex. a ton of structuring, in-depth
negotiations, the underwriting, the
execution. Nothing was simple, but
>> it never is.
>> That's what we love about it. But these
are solutions that we really provide
across the entire platform at Brookfield
Credit. This one specifically fell
within our corporate credit mandate, but
we have similar types of solutions for
infrastructure and markets with real
estate structures. There's a whole world
of private investment grade within ABF
or assetbacked finance. That's super
exciting as well. And it really just
comes down to who are we working with?
What are the goals that they're trying
to solve? And we will take all of that
and structure something that solves
those goals while structuring a risk
profile that is attractive to us. So in
terms of some of the stakeholders and
all the different counterparties you're
talking about for a transaction that is
this complex and this nuanced, what was
the bench of different stakeholders that
you ultimately had to bring together to
make this happen? This investment went
to a number of our clients. Brookfield
Wealth Solutions was a large investor.
There were a number of third party
credit SMAs which typically would
include insurance companies, pension
plans, and family offices. In this
particular instance, one of our
strategic credit managers, Castle Lake,
was involved. And Castle Lake's
involvement was critical here. We could
not have done this without them. I
mentioned that we brought in-depth
industry expertise to the table here.
that was really brought through Castle
Lake, one of the leading investors
globally in aviation. So, we had them
alongside us.
>> So, you mentioned Ryan, some of the
other counterparties we brought into
this, insurance companies, family
offices, and the like. How do those
different counterparties and
stakeholders think about where a
transaction like this fits into their
overall portfolio? How do they evaluate?
What's the context that they might need?
So each of these transactions is
structured as investment grade style
risk and we will get ratings on these
that are investment grade. So tripleB or
higher. The type of investor that would
like this type of product is somebody
who has an allocation in their existing
portfolio to investment grade credit.
Often that allocation would be liquid
investment grade. But if there's a
client who is willing to take a portion
of their liquid investment grade
portfolio and get paid a material spread
premium for illiquidity and complexity,
then this is extremely attractive to
that type of client and could be pulled
within their broader investment grade
mandate.
>> We talked a little bit about generally
speaking, why might a transaction like
this be good for Brookfield? Why might
it just be a good fit? How do deals like
this land in your inbox? How do you
source them, learn about them? And it
might be specific to this sector, the
aviation sector or the niche, but I'm
just curious cuz it seems quite
specialized. Yeah, there's a number of
different ways that we can source these.
I wouldn't say that it's specific to
aviation. There's really three main ways
that we source these types of
transactions. One is direct
originations. We are idea generating and
we are speaking to large cap corporate
seuitees and sourcing on a direct basis.
Two would be through our banking
relationships. Brookfield has a massive
relationship of the banks and banks are
covering pretty much every large cap
corporate globally and so they know
their clients needs and then they know
what Brookfield's capabilities are. So
that's an excellent sourcing channel as
well. And the third would just be
through the broader Brookfield
ecosystem. Often we will just get calls
across Brookfield because one of our
business line CEOs is friendly with the
CEO of a company that is looking for
something creative and they know to call
Brookfield. As you said, your team
worked on this for 8 months. It was a
longer term horizon to completion. Were
there specific takeaways or learnings
from this one or generally speaking how
the market feels right now that stays
with you after everything has been
signed? Look, the private markets are
growing and expanding and the type of
ingenuity in this product offering is
really what drives that type of growth.
And I'm just excited about the future of
the business and that's across the
corporate credit business, across
infrastructure, real estate, ABF, and
really everything that we do at
Brookfield. It's an extremely attractive
product offering. It's not going to be
attractive to every company out there,
but it really is something that every
treasurer and CFO should have in their
financial toolkit. And I think we're
going to be seeing a lot more of these
solutions. So I'm excited to watch the
growth in these markets.
>> Obviously, there's always a lot of
learnings that come right after you
finish transaction. But I'm curious if
there's any broader trends if you think
about a slightly broader time horizon,
maybe 5 to 10 years being in this space
of anything that sticks with you in
terms of how things have changed, where
things are going as we look ahead.
>> If you think about the history of
private credit, private credit and
direct lending used to be synonymous.
And now private credit is just so much
more. ABF we view to be really the
frontier and the next stage of private
credit. We obviously have a lot of
capabilities in the ABF space through
our specialized credit managers that
we've acquired. And I think over the
next 5 to 10 years, we're just going to
see incrementally more growth in this
space. creative solutions that come up
like what we were discussing with the
air lease transaction and then kind of a
cross-pollination across our business as
we utilize the specialized nature of
these credit managers similar to what we
did in this transaction working
alongside Castle Lake for their aviation
expertise.
>> It feels a little bit like an endless
asset backed finance menu. It's sort of
like as many as you can learn and as
much business as there is, it seems to
keep expanding. Do you have that sense?
>> Yes. It's everchanging, ever evolving,
growing. There's a ton of creativity,
and as new problems come up, more
solutions are invented, and that's
really the nature of the private markets
and the growth that we're seeing.
>> Well, I learned a lot. This was a great
conversation, Ryan. Thank you for
joining us today.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. you'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
>> Audiation
