Negotiation is often a
tense, even trying, moment. Why is that?
Why does an NGO
sometimes leave a bitter taste in the mouths of sellers? Why could something like this
ruin our
revenue and profit margin? And why does
this sometimes damage the
relationship with our client? This
relationship that we go to so much trouble to
cultivate. All of this comes from
traditional negotiation,
also known as positional negotiation.
Positional because it's a kind
of positional war. Every bit of ground
I gain, my client loses, and every bit of
ground my client gains, I
lose. And we know that, for example, losing a
few percent can divide the margin by a factor of 1 or
by 3. It is to get out of
this impasse of positional warfare that
two Harvard researchers, Roger
Fischer and William, developed a
different method of negotiation which they
called principled negotiation. This is
also referred to as a win-win negotiation
. That's our topic
for today.
Hello, my name is Bruno Deus. I have
been a sales coach for over 20
years and a senior consultant at Katana. Before
that, I spent 15 years in
sales as a salesperson, as a Kyant
manager, as a sales director.
I can say that I have experienced negotiations
and I still experience them, with varying degrees of
ease, and I have trained hundreds of
professionals to negotiate better. Okay,
granted, positional warfare is
n't great. Often it's a win-
lose situation or a lose-win situation. No wonder
it leaves nasty marks. But how
is reasoned negotiation different
? It's very different.
Instead of sticking to our positions, we will
focus on the issues and interests
of both parties. And that's what we're
going to build an agreement on. In this way, we
can invent mutually
beneficial options. We can exchange
concessions rather than exerting
power dynamics. In a way, we
can increase the size of the cake
rather than fighting over the size of
each slice. It is a very
cooperative approach based on a
structured process. This is the approach we
will now examine in more detail.
But before that, there's a more
important question: why would we
negotiate? After all, we have a
price list and we apply it.
For my part, I sold software
with a non-negotiable price policy
. Either you were already a customer, in which case
you automatically received a 10%
discount, or you were a new
customer. So it was the list price
minus one cent. And it worked
very well because the clients clearly saw
the value of the software for their
business. value that we had clearly highlighted
and proven. The reason I say this is
because I sometimes see
salespeople sending more or
less subliminal messages, encouraging, even
inviting negotiation, when
their clients would be ready to pay the
advertised price. After all, does a
customer negotiate the price of their meal at a
restaurant, or their doctor's fees
? But if you put up a
sign with a price negotiable, you
think someone will buy from you at the
listed price. If you are not very
comfortable announcing your price
and you stammer, "Okay,
okay, that's our starting price."
Of course, you honestly think
someone is going to accept your budget without
arguing? So the first point is to
believe in your price when you announce it,
to be assertive, to be proud to
defend it if necessary. My advice
is to talk about budget rather than
price. Thus, the issue of money is anchored, and in a
certain way the responsibility is placed
on the customer and not on the seller.
Okay, but even if I announce this budget
with all the appeal I can muster
, there are still clients
who will ask me to discuss it. There
may also be a purchasing department that
gets involved. There may be
other points on which we
disagree. So, how do we do it
? So that's the situation. My
client is clear about his needs. He
agrees with the project I propose to him, or
better yet, the one we have
developed together. He wants it to happen,
but there are still a few
sticking points. the schedule, the responsiveness of
the utline, the guarantee, a
legal element and often the price. It's
true, I defended my offer but it's no
use, he's asking me to revise his
points. Perhaps he's talking about negotiating.
In this case, to enter into
reasoned negotiation, I could say something
like we are open to
amending the project together to better
meet your expectations and ours.
I try to avoid the word negotiation because
it is often associated with
positional negotiation, saying amend together
your expectations and ours. Like any good
salesman, I've already started taking
the reins. I have outlined how
we are going to work. We will focus on the
issues at stake rather than the opposition between the
two sides. We will be in a co-construction phase,
not a power struggle. I initiated
a reasoned negotiation aimed at a win-win situation
. And right now, I want to develop
something.
Sometimes I hear people say that
the other person needs to feel like they're winning.
No, he needs to be a real
winner and be aware of it.
It's very different. That's
honest selling. This is the type of sales we advocate at
Katana because we are convinced that it is
the most efficient and the
healthiest. Okay, it's all well and good to take the
controls, but if you don't have the instruction manual
, it's going to give some
strange results, right? So, how does
this method work? That's what we're going to
see now. To make it
easier to remember, I will
present the method in acronym form.
The acronym is "tier". P A L I E R.
As if we had climbed all the
steps of the project and were arriving at a
new level of the relationship with the
client. A level is a
chronological sequence. It's P for prepare, A
for atmosphere, L for list, I for
investigate, E for exchange, R for
settle. Let's go, let's explore in
order. P to prepare of course, as
always. And there are quite a few
things to prepare. I'll come back to that later
when we've analyzed the
meeting. The
meeting is starting now. Here we are in the
room and the tension will rise or not, it
will depend on the atmosphere we put
in place at the A-frame. A
boxing match atmosphere or a constructive atmosphere
for a win-win situation. Okay, we
agree, it will work better with a
constructive atmosphere, but how do we go about it
? There are four points not to
miss. First, we're going to choose carefully how we
set up our place. We are seeking a
cooperative approach. Personally,
I love to position myself at a right angle at
the end of a rectangular table or
on a round table. We are quite
close, we can look each other in the
eyes, we don't hide our screens from each other, on the
contrary, we can consult or create
notes together. And I do everything I can to
avoid a face-to-face situation. It
looks too much like an arm wrestling match. We
take great care of the climate that is
being established. We mustn't forget that. The
emotional charge is high. This is the
final step. If we're cute, we might have
worked for nothing for months
. And then there's always the
fear of being ripped off, and that
bruises the ego. So we calm down, we
breathe, we don't speak too fast, we
exchange the usual pleasantries as
usual, we catch up with
people as we did in
previous meetings. 3. We will recall
and value everything that has happened
to get us to this point.
Team mobilization,
fruitful exchanges, the project built together, the
value expected from it, and so on. In short,
everything that makes us really want to
reach this agreement. And it's even
better if the customer participates in this
positive reinforcement. We can
approach him, get him to talk about these
subjects. Finally, at number 4, we frame the meeting
and it's a moment of truth. The
framework is that we are here to find
a win-win agreement together. For
example, we would say, "The objective of this
meeting is to agree on
the few points on which
we still have a difference of opinion." Once again
, I did not use the word
negotiate, again because of its
negative connotation. And we will approve it. If that
's the case, will it
allow you to launch this project
together? We will also check that we have
enough time. This is not something to be
taken lightly. Okay, if we're
all OK, we can go. We can
start putting everything on the table,
moving from positions to issues, and
looking for solutions. But be
careful, what if the other side tries
the salami trick on us, a tactic that
buyers and purchasing departments
love. That's how salami works
. First, we are told, for example, the
price, it's not going well at all. So, we work
on the price, we dig into the issues, we
look for the real stakes, we make
concessions, for example, regarding the
contract duration and so on, and we reach an
agreement, we're all happy and we
conclude, "Okay, that's it, we'll launch the
project." And then, the real kicker, we get the response: "
Great, but there are also the
payment terms. You're asking for 30 days,
but with us it's 90." So we
still have to work, sweat, to
reach an agreement on that.
And when that's done, maybe they'll ask us,
"And what about the warranty conditions?"
That's not great either. Six months
warranty. We're used to getting closer to
two years. That's the salami situation.
A bit like the butcher slicing
the salami. We're made to work
slice by slice, and in
the end, what's likely to happen is that we're
so exhausted that we give up
without a word. And it's not even
necessarily intentional on the part of the
client. Sometimes, it's just one
objection after
another. So, how
can we avoid that? Well, with the "L" of
leveling, meaning by listing
the points we need to
work on right from the start. We won't begin an ego trip
before we're on the same page about the points to be
addressed. Okay, you told us
you wanted an overall budget. Okay, is that
the only point we still need to
settle? Oh no, we also need to talk about
the warranty conditions. We're used to
much better warranties
than that. Okay. So, we also need to
look at the warranties. Okay. So, the
overall budget, the warranties. Once we
have an agreement on these two points, it
means everything will be OK, we can
launch the project. Yes. Yes, that's right
. These are the two points we need to
resolve. Okay, budget and warranty,
noted. We can even write it
clearly since we're side by side.
Okay, the "L" of The initial hurdle has been addressed,
now we can get to the heart
of the matter. That is, as we recall, we need to move beyond the
stated positions and
work on the underlying issues, the
interests, the room for maneuver, and so on, in order to
then extract
concessions that will lead to
a win-win agreement. The problem is
that initially, we don't know
the underlying issues; we only know the
positions. "I want a 10% discount," "
I want to pay in 90 days," and so forth. We only
see the tip of
the iceberg. So, how do we proceed?
Well, we investigate. That's the "i" in "
investigated hurdle." We have to uncover these underlying issues
. Let's imagine my
client wants to negotiate the price. But
why? It's the budget that's the problem.
It's his role as a buyer to
challenge the price. His boss is
putting pressure on him. It's
too high an amount for the planned duration of
the commitment. It doesn't fit within the
budget line. It's been considered. But I don't know,
and I need to understand everything
behind it. I also need to
have a clear picture of the room for maneuver:
how far it can go, what the
constraints and red lines are.
Conversely, I need to know what
levers can provide
flexibility. What could the client
give me in exchange for what
I might accept? Can we
influence the timeline, the
scope, the contract duration? Could we
break down
the project differently? Access another
budget line to supplement the one
that isn't sufficient? What
can the client do for me and for the
project? And since it's a
two-way street, I'll also
share my stakes and interests.
Within the bounds of confidentiality, of course
. Why am I defending my offer?
Where might I be able to be
flexible? And
what client concessions would be
valuable to me?
Perhaps a longer contract, more flexible
payment terms. Quickly, a
customer testimonial at a
trade show. There are some
customer concessions that might interest me and
could be leverage points for discussion.
If the atmosphere is
cooperative, the investigation is usually quite
easy for us salespeople.
Open-ended questions, follow-through, exploring the whys and
whys,
rephrasing—it's all part of our daily routine.
So, where are we at? The atmosphere is
constructive. We're aligned on the
list of points to address. We share
a good vision, one that benefits
each party. That's all well and good,
but for now, we haven't made any progress.
We understand each other perfectly, but we still haven't reached an
agreement. This is the crucial moment. This is when we
'll exchange
concessions. That's the key to moving forward. It's about
exchanging, since we're looking for
a win-win agreement.
In other words, no one will give anything up
without getting something in return.
For example, we might extend the duration of
the customer commitment or broaden its scope.
Scope in exchange for one or more months
free. Obtain
more favorable payment terms in exchange for
a discount.
Benefit from a customer testimonial in
exchange for a longer, very
open warranty. We integrate and combine a
set of parameters and
levers to create something
that works well for both parties. This way
, instead of a war of
attrition, we adopt a
problem-solving approach. Ideally, to create
value, we will try to exchange
concessions that don't cost the
giver too much but bring a
lot to the receiver. For
example, it only costs
my client a little time to speak at one of my
trade shows, and for me, that
can be extremely valuable. From my
perspective, if I offer subscriptions, it
might not cost me too much to offer
the first month free. It's just
lost revenue, but it
might bring a lot of value to a
buyer who needs a discount.
That's what a
concession exchange proposal could look like. It
seems we could leverage the
communication you would do for
us. You told us it was
feasible. That's right. So, if you
're able to speak at our
big annual meeting for clients and
prospects, that would help us, and in that
case, I could
offer you the first month
of subscription for free. That's interesting. I didn't
say, "I can offer you the
first month and in exchange, I'd like
you to speak at one of
our conferences." Yet, I
often hear salespeople say that, and if I
'm distracted, I might say it
too. But I phrased it the other way around
. Why? Because if I say, "I
can offer you the first month and in
exchange, I'd like you to speak at one of our conferences," you'll
certainly hear that I can offer you the
first month. That's exactly what I
said. Only then will you consider
whether you can speak at
my conference,
and perhaps you'll find it
difficult, but you'll still keep in
mind that I can
offer you the... First month. If, on the
other hand, I make my request before my
offer, as I did, starting
by asking if you are able, etc.
, it leads you to first consider
your capacity to participate
in the conference. And the somewhat
subliminal message is that if you can't
participate in the conference, then
you know you don't have your
free month. That's why the order of
request then offer is more powerful.
In this stage of exchanging
concessions, we move forward in
brainstorming mode. Sometimes, we'll realize
that we need to reinvestigate a bit, review
a margin of maneuver,
a lever, etc., more precisely, until we converge
on an agreement. An agreement that
undoubtedly involves several exchanges of
concessions, which may combine
some of them. An agreement that, if all goes
well, will bring more value to
each party—a win-win situation. All that
remains is to finalize this agreement; that's
the "R" of level. Verify that we have
understood each other correctly, and write down the terms. To be precise.
Perhaps we should open a bottle to
celebrate this decisive step and
immediately look ahead to the
next stage: launching the project. We
found a solution together to a
thorny issue. We shared major
business and emotional stakes. Perhaps a
new project is about to begin, trust
is strengthened, and we've just reached a
new level in our relationship. There you have it, that's
the tiered structure of a win-win
negotiation. It's
powerful, not so difficult, but there's one
condition and one
crucial step. This step is the
first: the tiered payment. Preparing for a negotiation requires careful preparation
. And what do we
prepare? It's simple: we prepare everything
that will allow the
subsequent tiers to unfold smoothly. Essentially, the A,
L, I, and E stages. To begin, there's
everything we can do before the
negotiation. Everything that will strengthen the will
to succeed in this negotiation: involving the
right people, conveying
the right messages, and influencing the outcome. from
the NGO table. The operational staff who
chose you, who want to work
with you, will they be there
to defend the project? The decision-maker to
whom you might propose or request
a significant concession, will they
be present? Then,
prepare to establish a
constructive atmosphere, the A for level. For
example, the seating plan I
mentioned earlier, the introduction: how I
will present the project, how I
will frame this meeting, and so on.
Then the L: list what we already know about the
points to be addressed. Of course, this will need to be
validated in the meeting. Regarding the I for
investigate, we will gather what we
already know about the other party's stakes
and prepare questions to
learn more. And we will do the same
work for ourselves, thinking about what we
could ask for. I often see
this work somewhat neglected, and
people arrive without knowing what to ask for
in return. Yet, it is very
important. What do I have in common? A
longer contract, better
cash flow, or if I am For example, if a
startup is working from its garage,
there might be meeting rooms
at my client's place that could be very
helpful, or if I need
customer testimonials, this could be
the perfect opportunity. So, make a
list of everything I might want
to ask for. Once we've
considered possible concessions
from both sides, we can start
estimating their cost on the one hand and the
value they bring on the other.
Finally, we'll try to get an idea
of ​​the red lines and the
best alternative solutions. What will happen
to the other party and to
ourselves if we don't reach an
agreement? This allows us to estimate the cost of
failure and the benefits of success.
And a successful negotiation must bring
more than its intended outcome to each
party. There's also another
condition for it to work. It's the
same condition as for all
sales efforts: you have to practice. And if
you want to practice with With us,
you'll find everything you need in the
