[Music]
Hey everyone, Aaron Philbeck here at Kai
Association and I am joined by Jeff
Rubin who is the chief investment
strategist of total portfolio management
at CPP Investment Board. Um Jeff, thanks
so much for joining me.
>> I really appreciate it. Thanks for
having me in.
>> Well, great. So, so Jeff, uh, first of
all, appreciate your contribution to
both the the first TPA piece that we put
out a couple of years ago and then this
follow-up piece where we're kind of
answering the call based on some of our
roundt discussions and tours around the
world of uh trying to answer the
question of this is great, but how do I
actually implement this in practice? And
and before I ask you a couple of
questions, I I want to preface this by
saying one, CPP has been at this for a
long time. Um and in terms of where you
sit on that spectrum, I would say you're
one of the uh fullest adopters um of
TPA, at least from from our perspective.
And then second is uh this conscious
decision like most Canadian pensions to
manage most of the assets internally
using internal talent. So uh so Jeff for
our conversation I want to focus mostly
on team structure. Uh we talked a lot
about governance and culture in this
follow-up piece but I think a byproduct
of that is how your team is structured.
And one of the comments that you made in
our interview was this whole idea that
TPA can be done with four people or 400
people. It just really depends on your
setup. So, I'd love for you to just talk
about that a little bit and how you kind
of see the philosophy being adopted and
how that relates to size.
>> So, again, thanks for having me and and
great that we earned the sequel on this
one. I uh I look forward to to kind of
talking about some of those elements of
of the total portfolio approach that uh
that as you note really do fit
institutions of all different sizes and
complexity. if they have a couple of of
ingredients in place and you mentioned
them. It's probably worth just quickly
re-emphasizing.
I think there's really kind of three
fundamental elements of a total
portfolio approach that need to be in
place. The first of which is the
governance. I know uh governance it
doesn't sound terribly uh sexy to to
talk about the the structures within
which we invest but it's vitally
important to portfolio approach that
that management the investment team has
has full accountability for the
development and delivery of investment
returns. There is no preset asset
allocation. There's no preset portfolio
fundamental kind of underlying portfolio
composition that is given to management.
management has in in a total portfolio
approach really has full discretion to
design a portfolio that meets the risk
expectations of governance but is
otherwise uh free to to build out that
portfolio in ways that they think is
going to best deliver against the
objective that is set by the the
governance that's that's without that
governance piece the rest of it really
isn't going to hang together and I I
don't think that kind of clarity of
governance is necessarily the the you
know the province of of larger or
smaller funds. I think funds of all size
can do it but it's difficult and uh
there are reasons why the the historical
governance it is used by most
institutions. There is a there is a
clarity of accountability. We know
exactly who is responsible for the
setting of the asset allocations and who
is responsible for beating the
benchmarks that are effectively attached
to those those allocations. So uh the
simplicity and clarity of the strategic
asset allocation approach is well
understood and and used in our industry
but it can limit the performance that
can that of of delivering against of you
know an objective that the the total
portfolio approach can deliver. So the
first ingredient is governance.
The second ingredient is a capability, a
means of understanding the fundamental
risk characteristics
of all asset classes in the portfolio.
And I know that sounds like a mouthful
and when you start talking about the
risk characteristics, the mind kind of
immediately goes to very complex
solutions to understand the risk. But it
doesn't need to. It can be uh e even
some thought put to which of our assets
are really going to perform best in in
high growth environments and which ones
are going to perform when when when
rates are moving out or when inflation
is is is coming in with you know under
or over expectation. I think even a
loose grouping and understanding of your
assets by their performance in different
environments. Even that can provide the
kind of insight that allows you to think
not about the asset class of labels, not
about building a portfolio of asset
class types, but of building a portfolio
of of of investments or assets that have
certain types of exposure or performance
to to different risk environments.
That's that's what we're talking about
here. And it can be done quite simply.
I've seen institutions that that simply
group their equities both public and
private into high growth. And they will
group their infrastructure and their
fixed income and maybe some of their
real estate into rate sensitive assets
and and credit into assets that are that
are more sensitive to to you know the
credit conditions within the market. So
just some broad categories of of asset
performance can be enough to start
sorting through and thinking about your
portfolio not in terms of its asset
allocation but in terms of the the kind
of the balance of exposures the balance
of performance that you will get from
that portfolio. that can be done quite
simply can be done with with teams that
are either doing their own work or using
offtheshelf risk models that will give
you some of that that insight in ways
that that again doesn't necessarily have
to be a large team but it has to be a a
team that's really thoughtful around not
the the labels of asset classes but the
the underlying exposure underlying
performance of the third ingredient is
you need to have a means of once you
develop those views of how your
portfolio IO is exposed or balanced to
different conditions, you need to have a
means of of delivering on them to make
to to ensuring that you can shift the
portfolio
from areas of of overexposure to areas
of underexposure. You need to have some
fluid means of being able to to invest
in ways that is delivering the portfolio
composition that you think best delivers
against your objective. So does that
mean you have to have some internally
managed portfolio with which to balance
perhaps the externally deployed? Uh in
some cases maybe, but there are even
possibilities to to be entirely
externally invested where some of those
external mandates have a horizon that
allows you to more effectively uh
respond to to the the composition of
your portfolio. That you're not beholden
to very specific uh kind of asset class
buckets. that you have an ability even
with the use of external managers to to
uh to balance out the portfolio in ways
that maintains the overall structure
that overall structure that we talked
about in the this second part uh that
allows you to do that through cycles and
over time and as conditions change. So,
it's those three pieces that that
institutions really need to build out
TPA. This this really clear governance
of of delegated accountability to
management. the ability to understand
your portfolio not at an asset class
label level but at an underlying
economic exposure level and a means of
of maneuvering the portfolio or or
responding to that consideration in ways
that allows you to adjust the portfolio
over time and maintain it. We have one
particular approach to doing that that
probably is more on the the
well-developed side. But I think there
could be a range of institutional
approaches to this problem that uh that
really, you know, exploit take advantage
of some of that total portfolio approach
flavor that uh that we believe will
deliver superior performance over time.
So Jeff, I want to come back to a couple
things uh that you mentioned and and but
maybe starting with, you know, that size
component of your team and maybe you can
use this as an opportunity to talk
through CPP's evolution of of perhaps
starting a little bit smaller, but then
you've added people, you've gotten more
sophisticated over the past uh couple of
decades uh managing through uh this
evolution. How do you kind of or maybe
historically how have you and then how
do you think about um the team
composition and the structure of that
team and where you add personnel um as
you're trying to get much more granular
because to your point uh you know you
are doing this maybe at a more
scientific level in terms of the factor
exposures and the economic exposure
under underlying it. So you need people
and you need technology in order to
facilitate that. So, so talk through
that evolution of of the team itself.
>> Yeah, I I think the I think the points
that you just made there around the the
considerations for what team size might
look like are right on in terms of of
that size in terms of of the evolution
of of the investment organization. We
important to note we you know have been
around for let's call it 25 years in our
current form as an active investor and
even at the outset there was already
clarity that we were going to be a very
large investment organization that we
started with you know relatively early
around hundred billion dollars of of
assets to manage with with very clear
line of sight on the basis of the of the
nature of the the Canada pension plan
itself very clear line of sight to grow
into to 500 billion and ultimately a
trillion dollars and beyond. So I think
that that gave us the confidence to
invest in teams to manage the portfolio
and to deliver on this total portfolio
approach to the fullest. So I think
there's there's always been that
institutional commitment. It's a it's a
choice. It's not a it's not our identity
to be a total portfolio investor. We
chose to be a total portfolio investor
and uh we did so because of a deep
conviction that if if done well you can
better deliver against a an objective of
maximizing returns at a particular level
of risk that you want to take. So uh
that commitment I think emboldened us to
I think start with a reasonably sized
team and to continue to grow that team
over time. Uh it's been a team that has
always been uh in the investment
department sense. It's always viewed as
an investment department. The the the
team that fundamentally manages the the
total portfolio approach. Uh it's a team
that uh as you noted is is staffed with
with folks that have a quantitative
background but always in the service of
making investment decisions. This is
something that we've really focused on
here as an organization is that despite
the the staffing of of quantitative
quantitatively
uh minded folks and the development of
models and systems that allow us to
deeply understand at a granular level
the the holdings that we have and the
economic exposures they bring to the
portfolio. Uh we always want to ensure
that that is that work is being done in
the service of making investment
decisions because the total portfolio
approach takes very seriously
things like the characterizations
of your assets and this is not just a
it's not just an academic debate. When
you are thinking about whether or not
private equity is levered has the same
kind of exposure as levered public
equities
that leverage whether it's 30% leverage
or 15% or relatively unlevered whether
the exposure of that private equity
asset class is more akin to large and
midcap equities or small cap equities.
Uh these can feel like kind of
interesting quantitative and analytical
exercises.
But the outcome of that has a profound
impact on the actual portfolio that we
manage. As we think about the the level
of risk in
our commercial real estate portfolio,
changes in that level of risk in the
commercial real estate portfolio, a
change in the consideration what it is
contributing to our total portfolio
can have knock-on impacts to how we
manage the rest of the portfolio to
deliver against that total aspiration.
that can amount into the tens of
billions of dollars of notional
investing in other parts of the fund. We
are deeply invested in a in an
analytical a quantitative systematic
foundation for doing all of this work.
But again, it's worth emphasizing we do
that in the service of making very
important investment decisions. And it's
those, you know, it's it's the use of
that apparatus to make those decisions
that we really focus on because of this
this commitment and the the size of our
portfolio. Importantly, the breadth of
our portfolio, the fact that we do
invest around the world in in virtually
every scalable or sizable investment
kind of institutional grade asset class.
Because of that, uh, the apparatus that
we've built to understand the
fundamental risk characteristics of our
portfolio, to be able to look at
everything on an applesto apples basis,
to be able to to add all of that up into
an overall portfolio view that allows us
to to understand whether we are at the
target that we intend or whether we're
off that target and need to trade in the
parts of the portfolio to get us back
onto balance. uh we've committed quite a
bit to that quite a bit in terms of
people in terms of data in terms of
systems in terms of risk modeling in
terms of the the the techniques we use
to really understand the risk exposure
of those different assets. So uh you
know that's it these are large teams
uh you know in the many dozens of folks
who are doing this work. We take a look
at some of the other large institutions
and how they are implementing their
total portfolio approach and there are a
few of the largest institutions
around the world GIC would be an example
that I think are similarly constructed
and have have similar kinds of
investments in their in their teams that
are running the total portfolio
approach. But uh that has been our our
orientation on this one is to is to
invest in an investment team that is
doing analytical work in the service of
making profound investment decisions
alongside their investor colleagues and
other departments that are actively
investing in their spaces. so that this
total 700 billion plus portfolio is
really being structured in ways that we
think best deliver against that that
singular objective we have of maximizing
returns at our at our risk target.
>> So Jeff, talk a little bit more about
the uh the technology and the apparatus
behind uh the insights in the portfolio.
So there's there's clearly an an
advantage to having the internal
management because you're hands-on with
those investments, but if you're trying
to take that portfolio view and look
across everything, uh that can be
challenging if you don't have the right
systems in place. So how have the what
are some of the systems that you do use,
things that you're looking for, and how
has that changed as you've gone through
this evolution?
>> Yeah, you know, the systems have to have
access to to all of your holdings. It
has to have access to those holdings in
ways that again allows you to do the
work on understanding what is the
fundamental underlying
economic composition. What's the
underlying uh exposure profile of those
holdings? Uh does it need to be done at
the absolute kind of of QIP line item
level or can it be done at portfolio
levels? I think I think there's
opportunities to find the level at which
you really want to be able to express
it. But but you you do need to really
understand your holdings well that you
know obviously from a book of record
standpoint we have very clear view of
all our holdings but from an investment
book of record standpoint to really
understand the nature of our holdings
even that's not a trivial exercise with
the breadth of of portfolio that we have
that the you know the real estate folks
historically they would store their
investment information on their
portfolio and in a real estate system
and the credit folks folks would have
their own credit system and and and
private equity another system. Still,
we've really had to make sure that we
can we can
develop a very clear view of the
investment profile of our portfolio
across all of these different asset
classes.
That's a challenge. the the the
accounting book of records system that
allows us to effectively understand, you
know, values and exposures and and kind
of asset level composition uh is not
always the the best system for really
understanding the the investment nature
and the investment profile
characteristics of the portfolio. So I
think over time we've tried uh different
approaches. Can we build off of the
accounting book of record? Can we do we
need to build bespoke investment book of
record approaches? Uh we all know we've
all struggled with we've all we've all
had our moments with these kinds of big
systems efforts. Uh I think we've we've
found ourselves in a place where we're
confident that we have a a very clear
view of our holdings and it's a view
that allows us to then apply risk
modeling to those holdings which is that
important step of understanding the
actual nature of the underlying
characteristics of our holdings.
uh most I think most institutions are
are comfortable with some of the off the
the third party risk modeling and you
know bar for example is one that is that
is used frequently within the the
industry and I think does a great job of
of
being able to project some of the
fundamental nature of of assets or at
least certain types of assets. when you
get into private assets, it can be more
tricky and and we see some interesting
things happening in the uh kind of data
provider space where there are some
mergers and some some some acquisitions
happening where I think service
providers are looking to be able to to
provide riskbased views of portfolios of
both public and private assets in more
comprehensive ways. So I think there's
some interesting developments there. But
we we've gone the road of building our
own risk model here. It's a risk model
that that we're always going to
corroborate with what's happening in the
in the external third party provided
models, but we have our own model here
of how it is that we can take a look at
this pretty vast and varied investment
portfolio that's around the world in all
sorts of different asset classes,
different characteristics. How we can
project all of that into a single view
of portfolio risk and return. That's
work that we do internally. It's
significant work and it's it's work that
we are committed to again because given
the scale of the portfolio and we think
the size of the prize involved with
getting this right the amount of
incremental returns that we can generate
that view that internally developed view
of the risk and return of the portfolio
is something we've invested in. So that
system helps us understand the portfolio
and then we have built a system to
deliver on that third pillar that we
talked about at the outset which is how
we then shift the portfolio and ensure
it's responding to that view of the risk
profile that uh that we assess. So we've
built a a again an internal system to
flow that view of risk into a into a a
system that that allows us to understand
where we need to rebalance the portfolio
in order to maintain the shape the
factor-based
composition that we think is best for
the overall portfolio. So I think that's
a very quick sketch of the of the
systems that we have in place. Uh again,
broadly developed organically over time
with lots of sweat and lots of lots of
labor and lots of making sure that we
are staying on top of what works and
what doesn't and and always getting
better. It's uh it's a lift. And for
those who are looking for a kind of pure
off-the-shelf solution to all of those
parts, I I'm I don't know if there's
there's kind of one solution that that
can cover it. But I think there's
opportunities to to deliver on on all
three of those those pillars that I
talked about at the outset, including
the characterization of the portfolio
and the ability to to act upon that in
ways that it keeps your portfolio where
you think it is is best suited. So Jeff,
maybe a final question for you before we
uh uh wrap up here, but one of the
things that was interesting I think for
us as we talked to all these different
asset owners that were uh at different
parts of the journey along that SAA to
TPA continuum was the experimentation uh
that took place particularly early on in
that journey of you know that maybe
there's some top- down conversations and
then some bottomup shifts uh with the
teams that you're managing and uh some
cross departmental collaboration as you
kind of um talk through TPA maybe from
your own perspective but for those that
are trying to think about this or are
wrestling with this in their own
organizations what are some things that
organizations can do to experiment a
little bit to move them uh closer to
that TPA lens? Yeah, I I think the the
maybe the the the first thing to do is
even start looking at and thinking about
your holdings through a underlying
factor-based or or economic based view.
Just having those conversations I think
is the first step on the way towards a
total portfolio approach. not acting on
it immediately and not trying to to
design a portfolio around those things,
but having a conversation with your
investment team. So, uh, you know, speak
a language that's that's often tailored
to the asset class within which they
work and and have that conversation
around is is it true that that all
infrastructure is infrastructure that
that there's no differentiation in
exposure? Well, is it contracted cash
flows? Is it market-based cash flows?
What are some of the drivers there? How
where are you in the capital stack? Are
you kind of in a first loss position
with with higher risk or less loss? How
are you thinking about the amount of
leverage on that and its implications
for the the the real the underlying risk
profile? I think I think providing some
of these factor-based views to your
existing portfolio and some of the the
asset class holdings. I think that can
be a really effective first start. And
and typically when you when when you do
that, the the asset owners are the first
ones to say, "Well, of course, not all
real estate is the same, if it's a, you
know, a 20-year lease, you know, credit
tenant property, it's going to have a
very different characteristic than if
it's a a data center that we're
building, why why would we think that
that just fills a real estate bucket in
some kind of undifferiated way?" Of
course, we want to think about the the
composition there and and understanding
those are those are two different risk
and return propositions which both of
which might have a role in the portfolio
but are clearly doing different things.
So, so I think I think getting that
information just being able to look at
the portfolio through a factor lens
through a a lens of under underlying
characteristics that is a great start
for folks to start to get it. All right,
I understand that there is a difference
in the the exposure and and that then
might lead to a next step which is what
what might we do about it? If we can
develop that view, do we want to think
about
managing the amount of risk that we have
in the portfolio? Do we want to start
thinking about is there a is there a
target? Is there an aspiration for the
kind of overall composition we want? I
think that's one way to leg into it. So
a way to to leg into it as well with the
governance that we talked about. I think
one one terrific way to to start
building upon an essay is to say here's
the the here's the the asset class view
of our portfolio. We have this certain
amount in public equities and private
equities and hedge funds and such. And
here's a different here's a view where
we're kind of looking through that and
trying to understand here's how it's
evolved over time and we seem to be
getting more or less risky even though
the the the basic portfolio compositions
remain the same in terms of those asset
class labels. Feels like a great start
to have those conversations and to
experiment around that first
understanding of the portfolio before
you marshall your resources to respond
to that in ways where you were designing
explicitly for those exposures and then
making sure your portfolio is being
adjusted to deliver on that that design.
Those are perhaps the next the later
stages of of the to portfolio approach.
>> Well, great. Well, Jeeoff, uh, really
appreciate your participation both in
the first one and of course the second
one as well. So, uh, your insights are
are incredibly helpful and I'm looking
forward to, uh, having the world read
this. So, uh, thanks for your time and,
uh, looking forward to catching up
sometime soon.
>> Great to see you. Thanks.
[Music]
