Artificial intelligence is impacting all
areas of our lives, and money will be
no exception. On this channel, let's
delve into the subject of the impact of AI
on Bitcoin and, of course, what
impact AI could have on the price
of Bitcoin. Will this coin reach
tens of millions of dollars or will it crash and burn
? Okay, let's go.
And for that matter, I think you're going to be
surprised. To try and
guess how AI will impact
Bitcoin, we need to go back to
Bitcoin's fundamental value, which
gives it its primary utility in relation to all its
other characteristics and the
means to achieve it. I think that
fundamentally, Bitcoin is the
best tool we have to
deal with the problem of the double
coincidence of needs between people
who do not necessarily know each other and
who therefore do not necessarily have a
common sovereign in their
economic zone. Okay, firstly,
what is the double coincidence of
needs? Basically, if I have
chickens and you have ducks,
we both have assets whose
value is recognized. Since I'm
tired of eating chicken, I'm going to
see you and I propose that we exchange one of
my chickens for one of your ducks.
In principle, you're willing to
trade me a duck, but you do
n't like chicken either. This is what is
called a double
coincidence of needs problem. We
both have value, but we don't want to
change it in this way. But
here's the solution. Since we get along
well, you are OK to give me a
duck in exchange for the promise that in
the fall, I will come and help you
bring in your brois by using this
duck. There, we have just invented the
first currency, the promise recorded
in an accounting book that
everyone possesses, memory. So yes, the
first currency is simply
the promise. You owe me one. With all
the problems that such a currency
generates and that we have been trying to solve for
thousands of years. But let's
skip over the whole history of
money to get to the present day.
Bitcoin is the most
relevant currency for solving the
double coincidence of wants problem in a
decentralized way. And the Iranian case
on the Ormous D3 is
offering us a large-scale laboratory for
this idea, particularly through the
Horm Safe maritime insurance platform
whose policies are issued and
settled in Bitcoin. So, with the
most fundamental approach to the value of
Bitcoin possible, one way to
marginalize it would be to solve this
double coincidence of
wants problem in an incredibly more
efficient way. The word "incredibly" is
not a lyrical flourish on my part, but
a reality. And yes, to supplant a
system that is already widely adopted
in a population, whether it is
Microsoft Windows, the iPhone or Bitcoin,
a real major qualitative leap is needed
because it is necessary to outclass the
network effect already in place. At this point, you
begin to sense what's coming next.
Could Lia have the ability to
solve this problem, which is the very
foundation of money? A little
hint, some like Elon Musk are
already thinking very strongly about this because he has already
openly stated that in the future, there will be no more
money at all, according to
him.
So what do they mean by that? Let's
start with Muske's point of view.
What he is saying is that in a world where
superintelligence has emerged, the
marginal cost of producing anything
that humans need will tend
towards zero.
In concrete terms, it is a
deflationary economy on steroids where everyone
ends up having access to everything because
scarcity has disappeared. Even at this stage, we can
clearly see the problem with Bitcoin because
by definition, Bitcoin is a tool that
allows us to manage the constraint of
scarcity. In any case, in the vision of the
mask, there is no longer a problem of scarcity. Therefore,
by extension, there is no longer a problem of
coincidence of needs, since a
superiority takes care of giving you everything
you desire instantly or
almost instantly. In the end, in this
science fiction world, Bitcoin no longer exists,
but then again, nobody cares
since everyone is
rich. So, at this point, you can clearly
sense that there's a problem.
Since we live in a world with
limited resources and
limited time, we must therefore make
choices. And as the philosopher said, to choose
is to renounce something else,
therefore to manage scarcity. So how
can we explain this vision of a
world without the scarcity of music? Because
the last thing you can say about
Musque is that he'd be as dumb as a
post. So we need to dig a little deeper
. And here we come across three types of
answers to this question. The first
is the version I call the
perfect socialist AI. And yes, I
fully appreciate the semantic difficulty of this
expression. However, the principle
would be that once we have
a perfect AI capable of
modeling all the needs of every
human being on earth, because everyone
will have their own little version 225 enclosure to which
they entrust all their secrets. One can
imagine that the CIA is capable of developing
economic and social policies that actually work
. OK, at the same
time, we clearly feel that the
resulting risks are enormous. Who is the
first to write the rules of the game, and
why would someone capable of such a
feat spend their
computing power babysitting humans
rather than dedicating it to serving
their own goals? That's a genuine question. And I
remind you that on the subject of
AI alignment, namely how do we make an
AI do
what we expect of it, we are
absolutely not at all ready
today. But in any case,
theoretically, it's a way to
resolve this double
coincidence of needs issue. A second
solution that I imagine would be what
I call, in reference to Musk, the
Labradorization of human beings.
[laughs]
So here, we can clearly see that it is already a
continuation of the first one. But
if AI allows
artificial intelligence to continue to progress,
but human beings are not
modified and remain pure humans
, then at some point it will be
marginally inexpensive for this great
system, which will surpass you in every way, to
satisfy all our needs in the
same way that the owner of a
Labrador manages to satisfy all the
needs of his dog because a Labrador will
never dream of a new car or
a faster internet connection.
All of a Labrador's needs are
widely known and relatively easy
to meet when you are an im. Here
too, we can clearly see the
dystopian scenario rapidly unfolding.
Moreover, M tells us that he designed the
company Neuralink to try to
address this concern about humans being
domesticated by AI and robots. Well
then, personally, that doesn't reassure me
much because to say that
philosophically is to accept at a
certain stage that we will no longer be human once
we have been improved so much that there will be nothing
human left in us. This is the scenario that is
called transhumanist and which
brings its whole set of problems with
it in addition to the problems of the
previous question. And then there is also a
third way, less futuristic but more
realistic, especially since Larifing
intervened to announce that
computing power was going to become a
new asset class. The
following idea is set in the very
near future, roughly a few years, where
the economy becomes increasingly
driven by AI. By this I mean that
the share of wealth creation generated
by AI in the economy increases
inversely proportionally to the
employment rate. And those who follow me
know that this is a real issue that's been on my mind for a
long time now. And here, I'm not even
talking about the future anymore, I'm
talking about today. Because that's what
some data like
Bank of America is starting to
suggest, even if in the end the great
self-sustaining movement is not
yet certain because the loop is
not yet self-sustaining in a way we
are not sure, but we can still feel the
trap coming. So you see, it's all
very awkward. So this is a
major starting hypothesis that I call
the AI-driven economy scenario.
In that world, the first client
of an antimator via our Hypnet platform
would be AIs arriving from all over
the world seeking
computing power to improve
their own performance to accomplish
the tasks for which they are
programmed. And don't laugh because
AIs that are asked to go and
buy computing power if
necessary and according to their
needs already exist. However, here
we are talking about a different scale, such as
50% of GDP being produced
autonomously by AI. And 50% guys,
that's a conservative estimate when
you look at the documented articles that
have studied this subject. In this world, an
increasingly significant part of
economic exchanges takes place between
AIs, without any humans in the loop. And this
has two major consequences. The
first is that the economic world of
AI will make it possible to offer a kind of
new risk-free investment rate
that would correspond to a kind of ETF of
AI production. However, since this
involves a significant portion of
global GDP in this scenario, we could
very likely build a
financial product with very low
volatility and with interest rates
significantly higher than what is
currently available for
cash funds. And I remind you, it's not so
crazy when you think
that Michael Sailor already offers 11.5%
return backed by nearly 8400
Bitcoins and that in private banks,
you can build portfolios
with little risk and
quarterly liquidity on a return basis
of around 8%. Didier Darcère already manages
funds for wealthy clients at
Gafcal Wells, where he explains
that he is targeting 10% performance with
prudent management. In short, all of this is
still embryonic in some ways, but
know that a rate that is almost risk-free and would be somewhere
between, say, 8% and 12
% today is not so much
science fiction as that. So here are
some major consequences of such an
upheaval if it were to
happen, if it were to be confirmed. Let's look on
the bright side. The price of
Bitcoin would likely soar towards
millions of dollars per coin. Because in
terms of adoption, AIs
often already understand that Bitcoin is more
suitable for them than having to handle
bank accounts and
credit cards. And this is quite obvious because
the world of Bitcoin is native to the internet,
whereas the banking world is full
of humans who are all potential points of
friction for an AI that has
no arms, no legs, and ca
n't easily call Martine
. Well, to be perfectly
precise, the volume of payments between
agents today is mostly done in
stablecoin, notably via the
X402 protocol which we have already talked about on this
channel. And that's for a purely
functional reason. An agent who pays for an API
by the second wants a stable unit of account
, not a volatile asset. He wants
a practical means of exchange, not a
store of value. So for the role of
currency that circulates in tria,
stablecoins have a head start for now
. But if we look ahead a bit
and go back to what I was saying earlier
, this stable currency must
be backed by something. And the
ideal reserve asset to guarantee a
native internet currency, neutral, that no
one can dilute, freeze or
whatever, is precisely Bitcoin.
So here, the question is not whether
AI will pay for its electricity in
Bitcoin, but on what reserve base
the machine economy will be built
. And at this point, we can only think back
to what Alpinet said. Except that
basically, instead of having
human banks, we could have
autonomous agents. And if we accept that
Bitcoin will play a central role in the
payment system used by
AI, then the adoption of Bitcoin by
AI will take immensely less
time than the adoption of Bitcoin by
humans. Because AI is fast and
purely rational. Finally, the
icing on the cake is her
learning speed; knowing how to copy what
works for others and abandon what doesn't
work for her is
astronomically faster than in
humans. So at this point in
the episode, well, we are tempted to say
Bitcoin to the moon, but not because
AIs like Bitcoin, only because it
remains the candidate for the role of
neutral reserve on a layer of
exchange currency. Which is already very good in
itself. Furthermore, at the same time,
saying that all the capital in
the economy that is ready to be
remunerated, less than something on
the order of 10%, is inspired by AIs
that rush to buy
computing power in exchange for
a return that it guarantees you.
This means that all companies with
a marginal return on
invested capital of less than 10% per year no
longer have any access to credit. And that's something we need to
talk about. I don't know if
you realize the upheaval this causes
. Look around you and
ask yourself if every business
you see on the street would be able
to borrow capital at 10%. Ah, you
'll find some, it's sure to be. But
I can say that there will be
losses in the fire. But then, what would happen
to the bulk of the
economic fabric made up of SMEs, which still account for
the vast majority of our jobs?
Here again, there are two main avenues to explore. Either
robots and AI will do the work instead
of people. And yes,
the 50% of GDP I mentioned earlier,
driven by AI, has to
come from somewhere. And that would
mean that a large part of
the economy would be destined to become
commoditized. In this world, basically,
robots produce bread
that is practically free, and this is true in a
large part of
the economy. Or, for businesses
with less than 10% return but which do
not interest AI for one reason
or another, nor robots, this
means that everything must be self-financed
by equity. So it may sound
barbaric put like that but
in concrete terms it means that
companies which have access to capital and
are therefore probably robotized
are experiencing explosive growth
while small businesses in the
border region are experiencing a
hellish slowdown as they have to produce dollar
after dollar the capital they
need to develop. So in
conclusion, we are talking about a concrete
explosion of inequalities like we have never
seen before. If you think
the world is unequal
today,
wait for it, you won't be disappointed.
And of course, in that world,
bitcoiners become extremely rich because
the number of Bitcoins is limited and
the pressure is constant, so the price
skyrockets. And the same will be true for
companies with the best
marginal returns on
invested capital. And who are these
companies today? Well, these are
tech companies whose business revolves
around AI, semiconductors,
data centers and later, well,
robots, biotechnology and all the
areas where technical and
scientific advances can be major and are just
waiting to be unlocked by
major advances in AI. So, that's the end of
the story. Regarding
currency, Bitcoin has won once again,
and well, that's possible because in this
case, there are people who think that
Bitcoin would be adopted as the new
consensus standard on value, and
since it is native to the internet, well, everything
would be perfect in the best of all possible
worlds.
As with the pessimistic mind, we can
also imagine another scenario where our
charming I's, being at the origin of an
increasingly large share of the GDP,
end up concluding that Bitcoin is
very good but that there is the possibility
of doing better. So how? Well,
Bitcoin fundamentally solves
ingeniously what is called the
Byzantine Generals' Problem, which
states that it is difficult to
form a reliable consensus in a
decentralized network when some
participants can lie or betray.
So since the formalization of the
problem in 1982 by Lamport Schostac and
Pise, we had solutions but none
that allowed it to be done on a large
scale in an open network without
permission and with
anonymous participants. So it's a real problem.
And that's where the approach of
Bitcoin's creator was to get around the problem a little
, to cheat a little with the
data as engineers know how to
do. Basically, Satoshi Nakamoto has some kind of fancy directional stuff and
he's hopeless,
we agree. But if we introduce a
real cost to speaking, a
proof of energy work and
assume that a majority of the
computing power remains honest, so we have
tweaked the basic system quite a bit, then
we can bring about a
probabilistic consensus. And that's worth a
few compromises. In other words,
Bitcoin does not guarantee
absolute and instantaneous truth. It
simply makes cheating extremely
costly and makes consensus increasingly
difficult to overturn as
blocks pile up. The price to pay
is the existence of a
theoretical systemic flaw, the famous
51% attack, where an actor or group of
miners controlling the majority of
computing power could reorganize
the chain, censor certain
transactions or attempt double
spending. It's more complicated than that,
but it's the whole subject that I've
developed over the years which led to
the publication of a paper on
détente attack which aims to define the
scope of so-called 51% attacks.
Whereas in reality, there are plenty of cases
where we don't even need 51% or plenty of
cases where we need more than 51%. I'll
let you go and see for yourselves. In short, all this
to say that a superior AI or a
set of Super AIs could very well
find another way to share a
transaction ledger that would make
Bitcoin obsolete because the notion of scarcity
would be arbitrated differently. I don't know, maybe
in tria in a language that we
probably wouldn't understand or something like that
. If you think the idea of
AIs developing conversations to
communicate with each other is beyond
our comprehension and belongs to
science fiction, know that
researchers have already detected
emerging communication protocols
between them. So yes, we can think of the case
of MTA in 2017 where two AIs started
to derive from English for a kind of
bizarre stereo. But anyway, the headlines
that told us they had created
their own language incomprehensible
to humans were a bit of [ __ ]
because it essentially came from the fact
that they hadn't been
forced enough to speak human English.
That said, it still demonstrates
that as soon as they are
not explicitly forced to remain
visible, agents who optimize a
common task tend to invent their
own communication convention. More
efficient for them and more opaque for
us. In short, let's close this parenthesis.
Fundamentally, we believe
that organizing a decentralized consensus
is terribly complicated because we
human beings have
very poor means of communicating on a
large scale. It is in response to this
problem that we are developing
centralized third-party systems. Today,
Bitcoin is based on energy proof-of-
work to make
decentralized consensus functional
for humans. But is this
problem still so
insurmountable for AIs that
communicate via the internet at a speed
that is simply inaccessible to us and with
a precision that humans are
incapable of? What this means is that
AIs on the internet have an ability to
synchronize and form consensuses
that are completely beyond our control. So
basically, it's not impossible to
imagine that the AI ​​era will extinguish the
topic of fiat currency and the topic of
Bitcoin altogether. because the
fundamental problem of the double coincidence of
needs would be more of a problem.
In that case, if I extrapolate and if we
wanted to keep a form of proof of
work attached to a convention
of value exchange, we could even
move to another form of means
of exchange, computing power itself
. Of course, I'm just speculating here,
but take a look and tell me what you
think in the comments. If you
have an AI or a system
composed of a multitude of AIs that is
responsible for generating a
substantial or even majority share of
GDP, then fundamentally this
means that you have an
inexhaustible demand at all times for any
form of computing power. This
means that when you want to
save, you exchange what you have for
computing power which
will in any case have a
minimum guaranteed outlet for the asses of the whole world
who are ready to swallow anything. And
indeed, there you have a form of
rarity with an unlimited market opportunity. As
strange as it may seem. From
there, if you want to buy
something like a loaf of bread or a round
trip to the moon for the weekend,
you can pay for it in minutes or
hours of delegation of your
computing power. The double coincidence of
needs in this scenario is
ultimately resolved by an
unlimited demand for computing power from
AIs worldwide. And that's when you need to
see Larifing in a different light when he
talks about computing power as
a new asset class. If
computing power becomes a commodity that is
priced, stored and
traded in futures contracts,
then it acquires some of the
properties expected of a
monetary asset and then we can start to
close the loop. Hence the
provocative idea that gave birth to this
script. A scenario where Bitcoin could
go from $100,000 to $10 million
before suddenly falling back to zero
. Because its
fundamental utility, managing scarcity and the
double coincidence of needs, has simply
been rendered obsolete by something else.
So, not that this is my
central scenario or the scenario I prefer
most in an ideal world, but I think
this debate is healthy to have because
an asset only has value when it
solves a real problem. And that's why
my personal
assets are made up of the following three main
asset classes. My first
pillar is real estate because the value
of real estate is based on the
human need to live somewhere. So if
my AI scenario doesn't materialize and it was all just a
big
bubble, let's say, and Bitcoin falters
because of who knows what, well, my
real estate should still be okay because
people have to live
somewhere. Well, it's not just any
real estate. I have
off-market real estate for
the wealthy and in the luxury sector for the
reasons I explained in this
video. You'll go see if that interests you.
Next, my second pillar is
Bitcoin. Finally, to be precise, it
is financial products that
give me exposure to Bitcoin because
Bitcoin has the good fortune to be in the
adoption phase and to reflect all the
values ​​of all the world's assets as a
currency. I explained everything
in detail in this video as
well. We'll come and see if you're
interested. So once again, a small
disclaimer, I don't have anything at home. I don't own any
Bitcoin. I don't have much
besides second-hand furniture
because I'm stingy. So there's no
point in coming to
visit me at night to try and steal
anything from me. I have nothing at
home. And finally, to finish off my third
pocket, an AIA display with an
anti-mator, of course. For those
who don't know, Fullstack I is the company
that resulted from the merger of
Data Factory, the energy layer,
Polycloud, the hardware layer and Hennet
for the software part. I am therefore
naturally very heavily exposed to the
AI ​​sector through the shares I
hold in my unlisted company. But
in addition to that, I am starting to buy
my own polycloud because I want to be
sovereign over my computing power in
the event that the scenario I am talking about here comes to
pass. Because let's be clear
, in an AI-driven world,
in that world, it's
computing power that I want in my
assets and not cash because we won't care much about that anymore
. So,
now you know everything, I am
deeply reflecting on these subjects, the
speed at which they evolve never ceases
to fascinate me. I'm very curious to
see your reactions in the comments. While
waiting for Lia to potentially
eliminate the currency, go watch this
video to understand why buying
Bitcoin is actually buying all
the assets in the world, which justifies a
potentially insane increase in value.
Mr.
