All your questions about GTA 6,
my YouTube salary, questions
about gaming, privacy and more
, you asked for it, it's the
FAQ video.
Many of you have asked me for a
video where I answer all your
questions, whether it's about gaming around
GTA 6, but also more
broadly about gaming in general, about my
private life, about my personal life,
questions about my professional YouTube life.
I said I would answer you as
honestly as possible. So
today, I'm going to try. These aren't the kinds of
videos I usually make
for the channel. I'm not necessarily
very comfortable, but there are more and
more of you on the channel and many
would like to know me a little better, to
know the person behind the
videos. There won't be a chapter like
I usually do. You will find all
the questions in the description along with the
time codes. So that way you can
browse peacefully. But I'm going to go through
all the questions in quick succession, and in the end,
quite a few of you participated
. I didn't expect that much to begin with.
So I'll keep your questions
aside like that. And as you can
see, 74 of you asked one
or more questions. So
I'm going to scroll like this while I
read your questions and uh there are a lot of them
. I'll start with the
oldest ones. I want to warn you that I'm going to
skim over some questions, that I'm
not necessarily going to read all the questions
because uh there are several, but
they're the same. So I'll answer you
once, and then for the following questions
that are similar or related,
well, you'll already have the answer. I'll
try to go fast enough so it's
not an hour-long video. As you
can see, there are still a
lot of questions and I'm just a
very small creator and I don't feel
entitled to make a video about my life
like this, as if I were something special
. I don't feel like I have much more
to reveal about myself
anyway. So I will try to
answer you fairly clearly and
quickly. And so, we left. I'll
continue directly. First
question. Have you ever installed
a hack or cracked your console to gain
access to more money, cars, or
a command window in GTA?
There is an answer, man, it's the basis of
doing this game at almost 20 years old, you get
bored quickly without a mode. Well,
honestly, I've never cracked a
console and I've never hacked either.
I've never cheated or anything like that
on a game. The only one where I've
installed a mod is GTA V, but
it's a visual mod actually, it's to
improve the graphics. So it's
not even really a hack. And the modes,
the menu mode, so it was with that. So
I used it to teleport in
story mode but nothing more. Otherwise,
I never use hacks or anything like that
. I like to play games
normally, I want to say in
quotes. Alexandre Petit asks a
question about State of Play. So, there are
also questions like that
which I might have already
answered because I don't know when
this video will be released. Maybe the State
of Play has already happened, so uh, well, we'll
see. Can we expect anything
from the State of Play scheduled for
June 2nd? And do you think we'll have
the equivalent of director mode
in this new GTA? The
director mode, yes, because since it
already exists in GTA V and is
widely used by the community and
Rockstar knows this, they will surely
reimplement it even in a much
better way. And the State of Play,
honestly, no idea but I'm
not really expecting much from it
personally. You can make a
short video about the police. Well, I've
already done one. The problem is, I
think I actually made two of them. I
made a video about the police and
police AI, and for now, I don't have anything more
to say. In fact, there are
topics, if you will, where I've
already made a full video on them, I can't
go further or develop
something on elements I don't have
. I relied on everything I
already had, in fact. So when I
built the video, I used everything I
had to make it as
complete as possible. So now we'll have to
wait for Rockstar to
give us a little more so that I
can make videos on
topics I've already talked about and that
complement these videos. Renault, if you
hadn't done YouTube, what job
would you have done? Well, I
already answered that live, but actually, I've
already done a lot of work in my
life. I worked in the
restaurant industry, I was a cook, I was a
door-to-door salesman, I
worked in
shopping centers, I did lots of small
temporary jobs in
bakeries. I worked at EDF
for several years at Nedis.
I've worked with elderly people
, dependent people,
disabled people, and all that. Um,
I did meal delivery, for
example, to elderly and disabled people.
I've had many jobs. In fact,
there has never been a job that has
interested me other than audiovisual,
whether it be the creation of
music videos and so on. Otherwise, there has never been
a job that interested me. So, I
tried lots of things to enrich my
experience, to try lots of
things. It taught me a great deal. I had a
blast. But once I had done all I could with
a job, I tried something
else because I
felt I was reaching the end of what I was doing. And it's
only in the creative field that there are never any
limits, in fact. Creativity is
limitless. So, only creating on
YouTube gives me that feeling
of "I always want to keep going no matter what
." And I think that if
I hadn't done YouTube, I would have done
something related to audiovisual media.
maybe sound engineer, uh, managing
cameras, lights on a
set, on a shoot, on stuff,
working as an editor. Just before
YouTube, I was a video editor for
other creators. So really the
job I would have liked to do is
in the creative field no matter what, but
I don't know exactly what. And otherwise, well,
all the jobs that make me
want to try. Flow, do you think you
'll continue to compile stats after the
release and not get drowned out by the
mass of people making videos about
GTA 6? I have no idea, it's
possible. But whatever happens, even
if tomorrow I only get 15 views on my
videos, I'll keep making them because that's what
I love to do. I'll
come back to that later in the video.
I'm going to reveal another project
that will start soon,
before the release of GTA 6 normally, and
it has nothing to do with gaming. I'll
talk about it a little bit later in
the video because I think someone asked me about it,
so there will be
a direct answer, and so, well, getting
drowned is possible.
It will be up to me to create content that
interests people. Afterwards, I imagine that
now if the people who are
subscribed to my channel are
interested in the videos I make, I
think they will still be
interested in the new videos
I make because I always assume that if there is
something that interests me, I will make a
video about it and potentially people who
are like me will be interested in it
too. So we'll see. Afterwards, it's true that there will be
so many people who
will probably all do the same
thing. Honestly, I have no idea. We'll
see what the future holds for me. But
actually, I've always assumed
from the beginning that I live off
this channel that the following month everything
could stop, that I could get zero
views, that it's possible that I won't earn any more
money and that everything could stop. I've been
preparing for this since
day one, and I still am today. Even
though I get more views today
than I did a year ago, I still prepare for it
every day and I think it will
never actually stop. I don't know,
I think I have a bit of that
imposter syndrome, that "Ah, this
works but it's a fluke, it
works like this and then it will surely
stop at some point, you know. Like,
there's a deadline, we don't know when
but it will eventually happen." I'm
in that frame of mind, we'll see what happens.
Sinigami, do you think GTA 6 will
have the same lifespan as GTA V
with all the current technical advances
and the evolution of AI? And also, when do you
think RDR3, if there is one, will be released
? I believe there's another
question like that after. I haven't
spoiled the questions for myself, so I'm
discovering them with you. I skimmed through them
because I liked them, but I'm
discovering almost all of them now. I think
the lifespan of GTA 6 will be somewhere
between GTA V and Red Dead Redemption 2, which
was much longer.
After that it depends what you mean by
lifespan because you have all the
hidden stuff, you have all the
side missions, you have the platinums, the
trophies, it adds a lot of
lifespan. So I don't know what you
mean by that, but for me it will be somewhere
between GTA V and Red Dead Redemption
2. So a fairly long game nonetheless.
I think I can do GTA 5 in about 25 hours, including
the main story without the
side missions. I hope we'll get more like
35 hours of GTA 6 in the story.
Then, you have to consider that the journeys
, in fact, since the map will be bigger,
in my opinion, it will lengthen the
lifespan because the journeys we will make
on the map to go from one mission to
another, since the map is bigger, will
require more time. So
logically, in all cases, it will
already extend the lifespan. That's why
I think it will be a little bit
longer too. Aid, are you going to
develop a business around GTA 6,
content creation, a game and so on
? I mean, to try and make
money like on Fortnite with a
creator code, something like that, well, actually
I don't know the system they're going to
put in place, so no idea. That's
not something that's planned. What I
love is creating content.
Now, creating in-
game content, I've already done that in GTA V,
it was cool. If it can bring me a little
something extra and I can do it
with my community, I will do it.
But I have no idea if it's something
that's going to be easy to do or what,
and how it's going to be implemented. So I have
no idea. Hi Tony. After all
these rumors surrounding pre-orders,
do you think trailer 3
will be released? And when will the launch trailer be released
? Well, listen, we've already had the answers
to these questions, so I'll let you
watch the previous videos that have been
released. Are you apprehensive about the release of GTA 6
in relation to the YouTube channel?
I imagine everyone will be playing the
game. I've already answered. Are you
going to do a review of GTA 6 when it comes
out? As for a proper test,
well, I'm going to do a let's play, I'm going to
do all the side missions,
all the hidden stuff, 100% completion,
trophies, I'm going to platinum the game
now. A test video, I'm not
sure I'll have the time for that already and if
it comes out, I think it will be much
too late because I will have already done everything
on the game, but I will
surely give an opinion at the end once
I have finished everything, but it will not be
a dedicated video, I don't think. Tolga,
hello. Do you think we'll be
able to put petrol in
vehicles in GTA 6? THANKS. Well, at least I hope so
. It's a mechanic that is
widely used on 5M, and is very
popular with PC gamers with
modes and so on. This is something that
has already been seen in many games, including
Mafia for example, which is not a
handicap because in Mafia you only fill up
once every
hour. So really it's not annoying
at all. It can be fun, it can
be a pretty fun dynamic if you steal
a car, you're in the middle of a
chase and then your
fuel gauge is at the minimum. So
you need to be careful with your fuel. It
could be a very good mechanism.
From what we had seen, there were
things that suggested that in
the leaks, sorry, it should be
present. Will this be in the
final version of the game? We don't know. At
least, I hope so. Dr. Billoved,
hi Tony, I have a question for you
which I think could be very
interesting and I would like to have your
opinion. Do you think that
following the success of GTA 6, Rockstar could transform the
GTA franchise into a kind of
playable metaverse with a huge number of
different aspects so that players
never get bored with the content offered and
subsequently stop releasing new installments
? The peril of the mythical single-player mode, which
keeps many fans of the
iconic license engaged, is being addressed in order to focus
on adding
content gradually, likely reducing their
payroll and
thus maximizing the
long-term profitability of the online mode. Well, I think I've
already talked about it if you have
n't seen the videos on the channel,
for me online is going to be in an
evolving mode, it will evolve over time. Something that
consoles of
previous generations perhaps could not offer. So they weren't able to
develop that evolving map thing.
They did, however, propose an evolution
of the online service. Today, there are so many
more things and we can see that the map has
evolved a bit. You can go to Kaillot
but it's a teleport. They added
the casino anyway. There have been
changes to the map nonetheless.
Now, I think it could
be much more significant with
current and especially future generations of consoles
. So yes, now
abandon solo play. Knowing that the
latest GTA V game is still selling
extremely well in its story mode as well.
I don't think it's that interesting,
and besides, it often goes with that. That is to say,
they might make an
evolving online mode for 10 years and then
bring us a new installment
with a story mode and a new
online mode again to
update the map, the license and so on,
to offer something different
because we can imagine it unless
we really have Project America and we have a
gigantic map
that grows over time, if we have a map that
evolves but remains the same at its core,
it risks being quite frustrating for
players as we see
today. The same map for 15 years,
okay, we get it. So I do
n't know what to think about it, but I have mixed feelings
. Hi Corentin. Do you
plan to play with your GTA
Online subscribers when online play becomes available,
Corentin? This is a question that
comes up often and I didn't think
you doubted it. I've always played
GTA Online. When I started playing online again
in 2019-2020, I played with my
community. GTRP itself, I was playing with my
community. In 2022-23, I spammed on
Twitch, I was online, I played
live every day, 8 hours a day, I was a
full streamer and with the
community, I did
entire sessions just with the communities,
full of members who were
present on the live stream and I love it, I
adore it. So with pleasure, and above all,
I think it's going to be super interesting to be
able to do it on a new GTA.
So if I don't take advantage of it now, I'll
never take advantage of it. So yes, clearly,
I hope and I look forward to being able to
play with you. Um Simon, do
you live alone or with someone? I live
with my wife, my son and my dog. So.
Mathieu, do you think that in GTA 6, we
could choose between a
more arcade-style game mode or a
more realistic one in the options? PS, I love what you
do, I follow you in the live streams and I
would love to play with you. Thank you
so much. And as for the more realistic
and arcade-style mode, I don't think so. Sadax,
hi my handsome guy, I've been following you for quite some
time now. I would like us to learn
more about you.
Pardon ? For what ? And when did you launch
your channel? Do you have other channels before
or are you planning to have more?
Why GTA 6 and Rockstar? Otherwise, we
love you. Keep sharing the news with us
and kisses Tony. Well, thanks bro
already. Thank you so much for your message.
Why did you start your channel? So
basically this channel was a
Twitch replay channel. In the end, I created a
new VOD channel which is another
replay channel. For those who follow
the Twitch live streams, there are other
games on this channel that I stream on
Twitch and that I don't play here. So, do
you have other channels? So, I have
a VOD channel, I have an
even bigger Tony channel. This channel is a
channel where I'll troll, where I'll act like a
fool, where I'll do some stupid things.
For example, you have a React to
trailer 2 GTA 6 which is a
parody and humorous React. So if you
haven't seen it yet, I think you're going to have a
good laugh. Why GTA 6 and
Rockstar? Basically, I was doing
reruns, but there were also a
lot of reruns when I was online.
Then, I made videos that
I was online on the channel. For
example, the very first video because
I removed the replays, but the
very first video on the channel is
a speedrun on GTA Online for Kaillo
Perico. After that, I made some
GTA Online videos, I did GTA RP, so
basically it was GTA access and then GTA 6
came naturally. I started
making some GTA 6 videos alongside the
GTA RP videos. I got tired and
detached from GTA RP, then I only played
GTA 6, and finally, well, here we are
. But actually, it's because I've been playing
GTA for years. Are
you planning to get more? Yes, uh,
I planned to have another
channel. The new channel will be called Tony
en parle. I'll put a link in the
description. So it's this chain.
So Tony talks about it on this channel. There will
be culture, tech, and
news. I will mainly be talking about
French topics, but not exclusively. There
can be absolutely anything. And uh,
actually, I want it to be something a bit
cultural, something that brings something
educational. The same goes for the news, which is somewhat
educational. Tech, that's because
I love tech in general. If
you saw my last video on PS5, you know
I love to simplify things and make it
a little easier for people to understand
the world of technology. As you
can see, there aren't many
subscribers on it. Basically, it was a
channel I started quickly, just like that,
where I put some music. We'll
also potentially talk about
music culture, cinema, and so on, there could be
lots of things. So if you're
interested, you're welcome to join
this channel. I don't know what the outcome will be
. I don't know if it will work. We'll
see. I don't know how much content I'm
going to create. For now, I have 15
videos to make on it, 15 topics to
cover. I don't know how long it will take me to
release them because
this channel, the GTA 6 channel, is the one
where I work full time.
So there you have it, this channel,
this new channel that's going to open.
Maybe I'll really get it going
seriously after GTA 6 because then there's going to be
marketing
coming in, there's going to be the game coming
out, I'm going to have a lot of
content to do around GTA 6 and
I might not have time
to feed this one. So I'll
probably start posting after GTA 6, but
I'll try to release the first
videos little by little, maybe one a
month until GTA 6. We'll see what
topics interest me
the most. Let me know if you're
interested, and if not,
if it doesn't work, we'll see. Anthony,
I have a question for you. If you were to do
a FAQ, do you think that
players like us who experienced Vice
City on PS2 back in the day are more hyped
for a return to Vice City? Because
personally, what I like most about
GTA 6 is going back to that
island. So, I forgot to say why
Rockstar and why GTA, and I'm going to
answer both questions at the
same time. So yes, Vice City
for those who played it back then on
PS2, I think we have this nostalgia
which makes us a little more
hyped than others probably. Those
who are simply fans of GTA and who didn't
necessarily experience Vice City in
2002, I think they are just as
hyped. But for us, there's this
nostalgia aspect; I experienced it myself, I was 11
years old. So yes, of course, there's a
little something there, and that's precisely why GTA
and why GTA 6? Because GTA 6
is also Vice City. Actually, it's a
memento of my father whom I lost a
few years ago. Vice City was the very
first game I got when he gave me
my PS2. I think it was
at Christmas. He gave me the PS2, the
GTA Vice City PS2 pack. And I saw him geeking out all
night on Vice City. He
was fully immersed in the game and I saw
passion in his eyes. He
loved it too much and he was a fan of
Scarface and all that. So he was rediscovering
the universe and everything, and he
passed that on to me, and it's a memory I have
of my father. And so
Vice City is also my favorite game for that reason because it evokes a
lot of emotion for me
. I won't elaborate further because
otherwise it'll turn into a "So Thbo, hi
Tony, do you know if we'll be able to
play two-player locally without
split screen like in GTA V City?" Sandre,
if you mean I think so because
personally, I was online, I don't care.
I hope so, I don't know if it will be
possible. I hope it would be cool but I
doubt it because, once again
, it's a mechanic that I think
isn't easy to do because imagine
you have two characters
moving away or you have to be glued together all the
time. There are some
annoying things to set up and then
knowing that you have GTA Online, you can
play two-player online so it's not
advantageous for them. You also have to understand
Rockstar's financial logic.
Why would they offer you a mode where you
can play with two people by buying a single
game when you can do it online by
buying the game twice, you understand
? So for me, uh, I don't think so, I'd like to
but I don't think so. It's just one more thing
that must be a
pain to do. And then you mustn't
forget that today in GTA Online,
I hope they will reproduce it, but there are
many things you can
do solo or in sessions with
friends. So you find yourself
online, you create your character, you are
only with friends, so you can invite
only your girlfriend for example or your
best friend or whoever you want and you
can play only two if you want,
you see. So it's pretty much the
same except you each have your own
screen, it's almost better. So there you have it,
I hope that answers your question. Guillaume, where do you
see yourself in the coming years?
in a bigger studio [laughs]
if possible because since I
moved before I had an
entire room. Here, I only have a small part of the studio
and it's quite compartmentalized, quite
closed off, and it makes me feel a bit oppressive.
Before, I had a whole room,
I was so free, I
could act like a fool, I could do
lots of things, it was so cool. So there you have it
, in a bigger room where I
see myself in the coming years. And as
for potential projects, I'll talk about them
right after, but projects apart from
content creation and, at most,
music creation, nothing more. I'm
already doing what I love, actually. I am
already extremely fulfilled in my
personal and professional life. So, uh, not
particularly any projects. If some people
come to me, why not? But
for now, I don't have any in mind. Hey
team, hi, I hope you're doing well. Do
you think GTA 6's online mode will be
more comprehensive than GTA V's? Uh,
yes, without a doubt. And also that
money will be harder to get
compared to GTA V. Now, I do
n't know if you're talking about online or single-player,
but in single-player, in any case,
making money will always be
easy because it's still single-player, we don't want that to
discourage players either.
And for online play, don't forget that
Rockstar is a company that wants to make
money. So of course
they're going to make it hard for you to get
money, even pushing you a little bit
towards, we don't know yet, but a
system similar to Sharcarn. Slasher,
why GTA? Although it's an
excellent game, I've already answered that, but there's actually
a ready-made answer that comes to mind
when people ask me why GTA?
Because even though I play lots of other
games on the side, when I don't know what to
play anymore, I always come back to GTA. I'll
take Skyrose as an example, he makes
games on the side, he does other things but he
always comes back to Call of Duty and it's the same for me,
I always come back to GTA because it's
my game, it's my
favorite game. When I don't know what to
play, well, for me the basic one is
GTA, you know. It's in my soul,
actually. I don't know how to
explain it. That's fundamental. I
always come back to GTA, no matter what
. So in the end, well, simply because it's GTA
. Um, who
would you rather see die at the end
of the game: Luci or Jason? And why? Well, neither of
them. So. [laughs] Because
I'd like a happy ending or
a multiple choice or a surprise,
something really surprising that you
really don't expect. Nolan, do
you earn money from your videos? Yes, I
earn my living from my videos. So,
there are questions, this is a
question that comes up often, the
question of money. I will reveal to you my
monthly salary. So not the month of
May because I'm filming the video in
May. So when I edit this
video, May won't be
over yet. So I wouldn't be able to get my
salary. But I showed you the month
of April, so the previous month and the
month of December for example which are
normally the most
lucrative months on YouTube, it's
October, November, December. These are the ones
where you're supposed to win the most. And I'll
show you how much I earned in
December. I'll show it to you later
because there are several questions that
come up and there's one
whole question that asks me for a lot of things.
I will answer everything you ask. Alex,
do you think GTA 6 will be crossplay?
Well, we got the answer, or at least
part of the answer from what I
understood in the latest Coltech.
Logically, we should have cross-
console functionality, and cross-platform play with PCs is
not their objective, but they are
working on it. When do you think the
Precoiler 3 will be released? And
how many editions will there be for GTA 6
for pre-orders? I think there will be
three editions, maybe four,
but I'll base it more on three. a
standard one, a premium one, let's say, and
a collector's edition. The pre-orders and trailer 3,
well I imagine they'll be released
sometime in June, late June around that time. We'll see
now, surprises can happen at
any moment. Liko, will there be
cross-save functionality? No idea. I hope he
puts in a better system than
seeing your character move every time because
every time, and for those who
remember when you changed consoles, you
had to transfer and then you could only
do one transfer. So, it was
a bit of a pain. And so, I hope that
we'll be able to play on any
console with the same account. However, I have
no idea about the story mode. Maybe
if we have an application and it's
saved in the application via the
cloud, I don't know. Tho,
hi Tony, you've answered me several times
but I'm asking you the question again
in a more precise way. Do you think
we'll be able to put the real time
in the game? In other words, having an
option in the settings that
allows us to choose to scroll through the
actual minutes instead of having a timer
imposed by the game? No, I don't think so
because Rockstar puts
48 minutes into 1 hour in all their games if I'm
not mistaken, and that allows for
daily cycles and things to
happen. In fact,
development is also linked to the
passage of time. There are events that
occur, there are missions that are
triggered depending on the
passage of time, and so on. So that's not
possible, I think. Do you think that
above the main map, which is
Leonida, we will also have another
accessible map, which would be Gloriana? Well,
I invite you to watch this video
on the channel where I talk about it,
for those who are interested. I was just talking about
map expansion and so
on. So that answers a little bit of
everyone who's been asking me questions about
the map. You have an
overall opinion so I don't spend too much
time on the FAQ. And do you think we could get
sick, like catch a
cold and so on? Perhaps in RP mode
because those are modes that
exist, but in single-player mode or
normal online mode. Hi Maxime! How are you coping right now
with everything that's going on
with GTA 6? How do you manage
your time, whether it's YouTube or your
personal life? When do you sleep? [laughs] I admit I didn't
sleep much in
May. Well, listen, I did what
I could. I took the time I
needed to take. I
was working late at night, I wasn't sleeping
much. I rested whenever I
could and then uh until I
could have some downtime and
recover. Often, uh, in the evening before
going to bed, I would watch all the
stuff that was going on.
I was writing my video. The next morning,
if anything had happened, I would
quickly add it. I was filming my
video, trying to edit it so it would be released
during the day, not too late, and that was it
. And I continued like that. And
then no more live streams. It was a
complicated month, a very complicated month. I
took a short break. I was looking for
my son. Uh, I took a short
break. For my part, I've been
filming for over an hour. So for you, it
might be shorter because of the
editing, but I wouldn't do that every
day. There are already many
questions. I could have done two
parts but I thought we'll
see this one first, but I don't think the
FAQ video will interest many people. In
addition, every time I answer
questions, there's a little voice in
my head that says, "You're nobody?
What are you doing?"
It's still a group of people, so
I'm trying to keep it short.
I try to answer as
sincerely and honestly as
possible. And sorry to those I
replied to very quickly, I've been filming for over an
hour so I'm trying to
make a video that isn't too long. In short, we
continue. Maxime, I have a question
I've been wondering about. There is a risk that
JTS6 will cause standard PS5 consoles to overheat,
as was the case with Death
Stranding 2, which is one reason why I could
n't play it. Ah well then,
normally if you have
overheating problems on your console, it means your
console has a defect because that's not
supposed to happen. Uh, you know, there are
probably thousands,
hundreds of thousands who played Death
Stranding 2 on PS5 without
overheating, I think. This means
that your console might have a slight
overheating problem. Max Ranta, hi.
Which games do you think will be previewed during the
State of Play? So, I didn't understand,
but if you're talking about pre-orders during the
State of Play, then we got the
answer, so no, I don't think so. It will be when
summer arrives. Hey Mathieu, I'd like to
get some headphones and a microphone
to play GTA 6 online on Xbox
Series X. What would you recommend I
buy that's good and inexpensive?
Well then, if it's just for playing
with your friends, Xbox accessories are more than enough
. It's not that
expensive. You should be able to find
a decent headset for €40, or €50 for €40. Have you
invested in Rockstar Juices shares?
Not at all, I absolutely cannot
afford to do that. No, no, I do not
own any shares in Rockstar.
Diego, hi Tony. Do you think there would be
a big difference in quality between GTA on PS5 Slim and PS5 Pro
? Yeah, anyway, I
made a video about it which I invite you to
check out for anyone who has
questions about consoles. Do you have
answers to questions such as what the
capabilities of the consoles will be, how they
will be able to run GTA 6, which
console to choose, and which will be the
best consoles? It will also depend
on your budget, many other things, and
you have all the
technical specifications and so on in this video.
So there you go, same thing, I'm not going to take any
time, I've made a dedicated video. I
invite you to watch it; I think you'll find
all the answers to your
questions. I'll subscribe if you ask.
Hi, I hope you're doing well. I was wondering
what image quality and
FPS levels you would be aiming for on all four consoles. Likewise, I
answer that in the dedicated video.
Jordan, is it possible that we might
encounter someone close to Tommy Vertetti in
GTA 6? No idea. I think there will
now be a reference to someone close to
Tommy Veretti. Maybe lawyer Paul,
but I honestly have no
idea. That would be funny, that would be fun.
It's important to know that this took place in 1986,
GTA V City and therefore GTA 6, 30 years
later, probably because many have
disappeared. Many people
talk to me about Phil Cassidi. Phil Cassidi had his
arms broken. I think it's
a member of his family or it's
an inheritance, I don't know. It's
true that he looks just like him. But
there you have it, I think there will be dreams
like that, maybe descendants,
something, but close to Tommy, 30
years later, it's a middle ground, you do
n't live long. [laughs] So, like Tony
Montana in Scarface
or Lens V dance B G Bosatine, do you think
GTA 6 will mess up the story mode and
succeed with the online mode? So, I don't think anything at
all. I hope both
will be successful. So. Gerwim, are you
planning to play on PS5 or PS5 Pro?
So, me on PS5 Pro. Hello Paul Lecler
. Could you tell us about your
professional background? PS, so is it a
green screen or not? Ah, I'll let you guess
whether it's a green screen or not. And my
professional background, well, I've already talked about that. As
for YouTube, I'm uh full-time
. So, I've been
making YouTube videos for years, but I've been
on YouTube full-time for the last 2
years. In 2024, as a video editor
for another YouTube creator. And in
2025, me alone, well, late 2024,
early 2025, me alone as
creator at the beginning with GTA RP, then
after GTA 6. Antoine Ventura, hello.
First of all, thank you for all the videos. It doesn't matter what
the haters say.
Keep going, it's within you. Thank you very much BG.
Next question: "Do you
plan to do live streams with our
national flexor and subscribers?" Uh yes,
that's very possible. I've
already answered my subscribers. With Reflex, it's
possible. After that, it will depend on the
content we create. And I think we're going to have to
do a lot of things
with other creators or something. So
honestly, I don't know what the future
holds. No idea. But it's entirely
possible. We already create
content together, so why not?
What life advice or other piece of advice would
you give to your 10-year-old self, Tony,
but when you were 10 years old?
Wow! That's a profound question.
I won't give any because the life I've had
allows me to be who I
am today, to have the life I have
today, to love the people
I love today, my wife, my
son, my dog. I actually love my life.
I am happy
even though I could have a
completely different life, be loaded with
cash or be in total poverty.
I would say I'm somewhere in between. I'm
not doing too badly. I have a life
that suits me perfectly,
so I wouldn't want to give advice
that could influence Tony's future
in 10 years so that he can enjoy the
life I love today
. So I won't give advice,
I'll tell him to live his life as he
thinks is best. So.
Will you be doing live videos on Black Flag
Resins, Esteban? Yes, I'm going to do live streams
. So, I'm going to do a
full Let's Play of the game. I don't know if
I'll complete it 100%, but as soon as it's released,
I'll definitely be doing a Let's
Play with Ubisoft on the VOD channel
and on Twitch. So I'll do the live streams
on it and then there will be replays.
So, these are videos that aren't dedicated to this topic, but rather
replays. Yeah. Christine, hi
Tony, here are my questions. Do you think
GTA 6 will be Rockstar's last GTA game?
No, I don't think so. However, a
fuel system will be less fun for the game, as
already addressed. Will the story be
higher than Red
Dead? That's very subjective because some
people preferred the
stories of GTA to those of Red Dead
Redemption 2. Some preferred
Red Dead Redemption 2 for its story
to certain GTA games. So it's very
subjective. I don't think it's
comparable because it's a
cowboy universe set in the 1900s or
1800s, I can't remember. In short, cowboy compared
to modern times, so it has nothing to do with it
. You despise, I think, both
things equally intensely. Maxime,
question regarding GTA Online,
do you think Rockstar will keep the
Luxo-style flying vehicles? I
know you don't know, I just
want to know your opinion on this
. I don't think so, but at least not
at the beginning because we know it annoyed
people, but then there are
many players who love it and
play with it every day, so there are some WTF things
that will eventually come back,
and that's kind of
the essence of GTA too. After that, what
would be interesting is being able to
do sessions with and without. That's
really a stupid option that
you can, uh, like, a basic session or a
what the [ __ ] session, you know, a kind of
stupid example, but it would be an
easy thing to do, I think, easy to
set up, so why not. Uh
Mamoudou, I have a question, in the
GTA 6 trailer we saw there was
a PS5. Do you think it would be
possible to play games on the PlayStation
like shooting games or basketball games, etc.
? Thank you so much for what you do.
Well, thank you my young, my young
brother. Uh no, not Play games, I don't think so
. I think it's just for looks
. Then we saw that they added
arcade games. You can still play
games within the game in some
GTA titles. So, it's possible there will be
small games, mini-games, but
real games like NBA 2K on PS5 in
GTA. No, can you imagine the weight of the game?
No, that would be impossible. No, I don't think so
. Mini-games, why not? But
no more than that. Roland, personally, I wanted to
know what your sources
of inspiration are, whether in
gaming or even in cinema. And who
knows about literature, because we gamers
know how to read. Yes. Thanks for your videos,
they're great quality, I finally found it.
Well, thank you very much, bro. Any
inspirations? So in
literature, I don't really have any because, well,
I find them talented
but they're not exactly
inspiring people. In gaming, I don't
necessarily have any. In the film industry, there may be a
few people involved, but I think it's going to be
more about sports. My real
source of inspiration, I think, is
Michael Jordan. Michael Jordan
dedicated his entire life to succeeding, to
being a good person, to being a
good man, a good husband, a good father. And
I think that's what inspires me, to
do everything I can to the best of my ability
in my life so that I have no regrets
and to be the best person I can be.
After him, they always aimed further,
further. I just want to be
better than myself, better than
yesterday. And so Jordan is a
true example, he is extremely inspiring.
After that, I don't know enough, I think
because I've followed his career closely
since I was your kid, Jordan.
So, I followed his career very closely,
I followed his private life very closely, his
stuff like that. In gaming, in
cinema, not much more than that. So I wouldn't have any in
particular. After GTA 6,
do you think the next Rockstar game
will be Red Dead Redemption 3? I think so, yeah
. I think it's
already in the planning stages; it's clearly marked on their schedule.
How do you manage to live on so little
YouTube income if I believe your
statements about posts, you must have a
job on the side. Otherwise, what is your
original educational background? Yes, I know,
it's a bit personal. So, I already
answered regarding my original training, I went to
a hotel school, I did
one in the restaurant industry. I don't have a
job on the side. I spend 200 hours a
month on YouTube, so it's impossible for me to
have any time on the side. I will
answer this question about
salary clearly right away. So, I'm going to tell
you my salary. So, here's what I
earned in December and
here's what I earned in April.
So these are my two YouTube salaries.
So my last YouTube earnings when
I filmed this video, my earnings
from April and December which is
supposed to be one of the most lucrative months. I'm
not posting the screenshots because I don't
think it's very advisable to
show your YouTube studio, your
payments, etc. So I'm not posting the
whole page and so on. I know
creators who advised me against doing it
. Now I am transparent.
There you go, you've seen the month's salary
for April. So, if I do the
simple calculation, you have to know that the Ursaf comes
through there, so they take 20 and some %,
we're not going to bother, we'll take
20% even if it's a little less. So
€1345 x 20 divided by 100
gives us €269. So this is what I have to
give uh out of these €1300 to Usaf.
And we still have €1076 left. So this is
my salary in my pocket in
April. That was my salary for the
month to pay my bills and so on.
How am I doing? Well, I'm being
careful. I'm not very extravagant. My
wife also works nearby. Um, I have some
help as a creator. We
manage, we do what we can. With
two salaries, it's not a huge amount, but
we do what we can. And as I've
always said, I prefer to earn
less money and do what I love
than to earn more money and go
backwards, doing a job I don't like
. And then in another sense, I
also have fewer expenses because,
admittedly, I earn, let's say I don't know what
the minimum wage is, 100005, I
may earn 3,400 less than
Sneak, but I'm not going to
put gas in to work. And
then when you see the price of gas,
uh, if I were working, I think I would
easily spend 300 bucks on gas
every month to get to work. So
in the end, it's almost the same. Do you
see what I mean? Except in
December. [laughs]
In December, as you
saw, my salary was €668
without the URSSAF. For those who don't know,
it's what you give to the state. It's
mandatory, right? I subtract 20% from
668, which gives us €133. So in
December, my net salary in my
pocket was €535. So Christmas was a
bit of a mixed bag, I'm not lying to you. We were
careful, weren't we? I bought some
wrapping paper, I didn't buy any. We were able to give
gifts, that was already a good start. We've
already been able to give some gifts.
I didn't go crazy, but that's fine with me
because I do what I love. So.
Now, will it
increase or decrease in
the future with the release of the game and so on
? As I said, I don't know.
Now, if you enjoy the
content, well, it all depends on you really
. If you follow me on my
adventures after the game's release, it will
give me opportunities to continue
producing lots of videos and to be
more and more creative. Why not even give
you the chance to win things through
collaborations, it's coming in a few
days, to also make videos with
the community and so on. Then there is one
thing I am sure of though, which is that
online and RP will offer us
crazy opportunities in terms of
content creation. So I really have
no concerns about the creative aspect.
Doing events, doing crazy stuff
with other YouTubers, that would be
incredible. And even
today, despite the influx of
players and creators on GTA V, there have
always been GTA channels that are still
working today. In my opinion
, there is an audience for everything and for
everyone. Perhaps I will distinguish myself
in slightly
more adult, slightly more personal, kinds of crazy ideas
. Some will target a younger audience, such as
Fortnite, Roblox and others.
Then, you also have to understand one
thing, which is that I have also reinvested a
lot in the channel, despite
not making much money. I
bought a new microphone, a new
camera, and a retractable green screen for
better framing. I'm
constantly buying equipment to
offer you better content, a
case, a card for the PC so I
can offer you 4K on the
game when it comes out in the best
quality. I always strive to
improve the content. So that
also aligns with your point of view, and I do this
because I enjoy doing it. And I think we don't all have the
same ambitions
on YouTube. My ambitions are
not to have a million subscribers and
earn, uh, 20 cases per month. I
earn €1000-2000 net per month
, but doing what I love makes me the
happiest person in the world. He even told me that even
though I only have 30,000 subscribers, I
am the happiest person in the world. I think
I've been through some complicated things in my
life, some
complicated financial periods, and I
know how to be satisfied with what I have and not
go looking for more, and I'm happy
with what I already have today. So
I'm not going to look for
crazy stuff and every day I
'm surprised by what happens to me on
YouTube. I clearly would never have
imagined it. So, Tom Solker, hello. I was wondering
by chance if there would be the
famous director mode in GTA 6.
I think I already answered that. No.
Lakers, when GTA 6 comes out, will
you be able to make a video with a
sincere opinion on the game but without major spoilers
? Keep it up, you're a delight. Well,
as I said, I'll have finished the
game, I think I'll give my opinion.
I won't spoil anything, I don't think I will, I'll
give an overall opinion but I do
n't plan to make dedicated videos in
[music] or at least test videos. Eminem
P3, hi Tony, I have two questions. The
most important thing, and I think
everyone would like to know the
answer. How many times
a day do you brush your teeth? Are you more of a vice or a
nail person? OK, it's trolling, it's trolling, I
see that. It's more in the right atmosphere, it's
more like me. You see, I actually feel less like I know
who I am to
answer all these questions.
How many times a day do I brush my
teeth? difficult because as I only know how to count up to
3, I would say, I would say, well, like
this with my fingers,
between this and that, more or less, and screw or nail,
that means you have to drill, and you
know how to drill things, and as I say,
you know, drilling isn't necessarily my dream, so
I prefer glue.
Julien, of all the GTA games, which is your
favorite? Well, GTA Vice City, so you
know why GTA is my favorite. What's
the first thing you'll do in GTA 6
Samestwood? I'll let you watch this
video where I say the first 10 things
I'll do in GTA 6. That way, for those
who haven't seen it, I won't spoil it for you
. I'll let you go and discover that for yourself.
Hewa, if you hadn't made
GTA 6 content, would you have started in the first place
? PS: If so, I've never seen you before
, sorry. And if not, what kind of content
would you suggest? Well, I was already playing
GTA, so basically, I was just doing
multigaming there. Until now,
I did everything on Twitch. I've played a
lot of Battle Royale games, a
lot of FPS games, a lot of GTA, GTA
RP, uh, GTA Online, I've moved away from it
. After that, I think there's a
way to find Twitch Tracker or
something like that on Twitch Tracker, I
think that's the site. Yeah, you
type in Tony and you'll see
on Twitch all the games I've
streamed. Actually, there are quite a lot of them
. It tells me
how many games I've streamed? Total Games Played
126. So there you have it, and knowing that
I stopped streaming about
2 years ago, so in 6 years, I streamed 120
games, so I did a little bit of everything. Well,
after that on YouTube, I mostly did
GTA Online and GT RP. And there you have it.
Uh hi Tony, I was wondering if
during the live streams with Réflex brasé and
so on, you would bring subscribers up
on the live streams to talk about the game, give
opinions and so on. That's it.
Anyway, keep up the good work, we're really enjoying it,
and we can't wait for the game to come out. I
forgot to mention, but if so, it
could work. I'm just asking if there's
an age limit. So, first of all,
I saw that it was quite mixed.
People prefer it when I do things
a bit more solo on my own. So, as
far as collaborations go, I won't be
doing many more in the coming days. And then
in any case, uh, bringing in
subscribers unless we know them quite
well, which isn't necessarily the case
because we have rather
young communities. It's not necessarily ideal when
you're live, at least on YouTube;
on Twitch it might still be okay, but
on YouTube it can be more tricky. It is
enough that there are
crazy things that are said to be and so on. Things
can quickly get out of hand. So, uh, more
in video because in video, if something
crazy is done, you cut it out and
uh, it might be okay. But in a
live setting, I'm less of a fan on YouTube at
least. Less. Loky, what made you
want to start a YouTube channel?
Because I really want to get
started because with the release of GTA 6,
I think it's a golden opportunity
to create a channel and create
content. So, I didn't wait for GTA
as I said, I've been creating content
for years on many other
games. So, wanting to get started, I think
you want to get started too
because I've gained momentum.
Uh no, uh, it's a golden opportunity
to create a channel and create
content. Frankly, as we said, we don't know
if we're going to drown in any
case. So don't wait for GTA 6. If you
want to create content, create
content. Don't expect a
game in particular, okay? You can try anything and everything as long as you
enjoy it and give it your all,
like I said earlier.
And what really made me want to get
started was that I had
Twitch and YouTube, and they're really
different. Twitch, you are in the moment,
you experience something, you share it
with your community live, you
exchange with them, you have live interaction
with the community. So there are some
twists and turns with what
the cat says, with your subscribers and so on.
It's different. And you're going to do a
live stream, it's going to last, I don't know, 1 hour, 4
hours, 7 hours, lots of things are going to happen
and so the content is a
condensed version. You're suggesting it, it's a block.
Bam! YouTube is different. On YouTube,
you can work on a video for 3
weeks and release a big video, or
you can release a one-shot video in 2
minutes and release a 2-
minute video. What made me want to do
YouTube is that, for example, for
videos where you can spend 3 weeks
working on them, you can be much
more creative, you can do a lot
more things, you can organize yourself, you
can do a lot of things in the
editing. I find that today
YouTube is more like me than live streams,
even though I love live streams, I think
what I really prefer are
YouTube videos. Nuggets, hi Tony, I
wanted to ask you this question. What
are your fears surrounding GTA 6? I don't have any
particular complaints, just that many
things we've seen that are supposed to be
there since the beginning, and so on, of well-
known mechanics that we expect, are not
there in the final version, and we have something
that is closer to GTA V, that is to say,
compared to the previous GTA. I
found that GTA V was lacking in many
areas. Nexo, hello. What motivated you
to become a content creator
? Keep it up, you make
excellent videos and you're in the final stretch
for GTA 6. I think I've pretty much
answered your question about
becoming a creator. I just love the
creative stuff. That would have been it. I could have
created other things, you know. But I've
always loved acting like a fool. I've
always loved sharing my craziness
through video. So there you have it.
Rin Okumura, I sincerely hope you will
become one of the greatest
GTA 6 YouTubers. Will I become one of the
greatest? It depends on whether I'm coming from far away
or not. After one of the greatest, it's
complicated, I think. There are
already some big YouTubers out there, and I'm only
1.85m tall. So yes, it's big,
but I've already finished growing.
So I can't do more than 85
unless I wear sneakers with
heels or find some kind
of thing to be higher, I don't know
. But thank you anyway. As
they say, size doesn't matter.
So Shiro, what's the
embarrassing music you listen to? I don't think I
listen to shameful music. I do
n't know what you mean by shameful,
but there isn't a song that
I'm ashamed to listen to in the
street while driving; I turn the volume down, for
example. Finally, all the music I
listen to is good. Maybe some
children's music with my son, but oh well,
because we don't care, this music is
mainly for him. So, your three
favorite animated sci-fi comedy films. Well,
I'm a big movie buff.
So my library is like
music. You can't tell me what
your favorite music or
movies are. It's too hard.
comedy just in France I tell you the
dinner of idiots the infernal Tourbonparnas
Asterix and Obelix mission Cleopatra there are too many
it's impossible there are too many
things just in France in the
United States even worse science fiction
science fiction at the limit I would say
Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings Ah it's
hard it's hard uh animation and
animation the only one I think the film
Up for those who have seen it. So,
it's a film, it's very touching.
It's a film, I would say an animated film, quite
adult-oriented nonetheless. So
this movie kind of freaks me out. Finally,
the time I saw it anyway, it freaked me out
and it's one of my
favorite animated films, I
think. Your favorite animal is the dog.
Now we move on to more
personal and much more complicated questions.
What action have you taken in
your life that you are most proud of? Easy,
my son. Finally, the action technically,
I copulated. Afterwards, am I
proud of it? It's more the result. If there are
things that come to mind, but it would be
presumptuous to
say I did this, I did such and such a good
deed, you know. So no, I would say my
son. I wouldn't say I've done things, you know
. I have helped people who were
really distressed, things like that.
But anyway, I won't tell you because it's not a matter of not caring
, I did it
because I had to do it, actually. That's how it is
. And even though I'm
proud of it, it's not something that should be shared,
I think. Um, do you believe in
God? No. There's always
something deep down in my mind that says you
never know. But otherwise, no, not really.
Yet, I know about religions, I
have studied them, I have read
religious books, but I don't believe in them. In
your opinion, what is the goal of humanity?
Yeah, my friend. [laughs]
Oh, the goal of humanity is to
be happy. What do you want me to
tell you? I don't even know what
I'm going to eat tomorrow.
So, the goal of humanity, well, that's a
question for your mother, not for me. I make
GTA videos, bro. [laughs]
And finally, what is the phrase that
defines you the most or that helps you move forward
in life? Wow, you're on
fire, man. You're mainly here to ask
questions that are a
little different. OK. [laughs]
Oh yeah, those are indeed
questions. No, but listen, I don't think
I'm anyone to answer
those questions anyway. So,
what is the phrase that defines me the
most or that helps me move forward in life
? For me, the only thing that keeps me going
in life is for my wife
and son to be happy and healthy
, that's all. There is no sentence.
So that must be the sentence. Last
question. No sfk.
Um, two questions. What city are you from
? So, I'm from Po,
and will you be creating a clan on GTA
6 online so we can play with
you? Well, I'd like that. Yeah. I do
n't know if the Crew system will still be available
on GTA 6 online, but if it's
possible, yes. In any case, we'll do
our own thing, our
CRW, our clan, our team, you know, we'll be
the team most on GTA GTA 6. Thank
you guys. Thank you for all
your questions. I hope I have answered your question.
I tried to be quick, like I
said. Once again, I feel
I am no one to answer those
questions. So in truth, I
answered as honestly and
sincerely as possible, but it's not
something I would do every day because
guys, it's just me, well
[laughs] you know, I'm nobody. So
in any case, I hope I've answered
your GTA gaming questions as best I could.
I hope I've taught you a
few things about myself. What I find
most interesting to share about
myself is, uh, what led me
to content creation?
What did I do before and
why am I doing what I'm
doing today? I hope my answers
satisfied you, even though I was as
quick as possible so it wouldn't take too
long. I'm currently 1 hour and 30 minutes into
filming. You're probably going to have
a video that's almost an hour long, so
it's very long for a FAQ video, I feel like
I'm just talking about my life. Who
am I? Actually, [laughs]
anyway, I hope you liked it. Don't
hesitate to give support in the
comments because FAQ videos
aren't the videos that interest the
most people. They're not the ones that get
the most views. So thank you to those
who will give their maximum support. See you
in the next video for
even more GTA. Until then,
take care, you bunch of hotties. Bonnie.
[music]
