Clouded code is gaining a lot of
popularity among developers. Docker MCP
toolkit makes it easy and secure to run
and configure MCP servers to automate
dev flow. Together, they make a powerful
combination as development tools. In
this video, I'm going to go ahead and
show you how to add MCP servers to Cloud
Code with Docker MCP toolkit. How to set
up cloud code, configure three MCP
servers, Jira, GitHub, and file system
so you can orchestrate workflows across
all three. And everything that I'm going
to show you can turn 30 minutes of
manual work into 2 minutes. That's
orchestrating. We're going to give
instructions to cloud code as you see on
the bottom right hand corner so that it
can scan the entire codebase. Identify
15 plus todo fix me comments. Retrieve
git history [music] for each one.
Categorize them by business priority.
Create properly formatted Jira issues
and then link each one back to the exact
file and line number and then give us a
nice summary. So let's go ahead take a
look. Quick note that this video was
inspired by this blog here by Ajet Raina
that you can follow along. Before we get
started, there are a couple of
prerequisites. The first is to install
Docker Desktop, which you could do from
this site [music] here.
The next step would be to enable the MCP
toolkit. Following this link will bring
us to this documentation here. But
essentially what you'll need to just do
is within Docker Desktop, go to the
settings tab. And once you do, navigate
down to beta features [music] and make
sure that you have enabled Docker MCP
toolkit check. And once you do, you can
hop on over here to MCP toolkit where
you'll have four tabs. And if you go to
catalog, you could see all your MCP
servers available. The next step is to
hop on over to my terminal and install
Claude. I'll be using Brew, which is a
package manager since I'm on a Mac. And
that'll give me a nice clean install.
Okay, based on this top line up here,
looks like Claude was successfully
installed. And to [music] verify, I'll
just enter in claude version. Looks
good. So now let's [music] go ahead and
just start cla. I can choose the mode
that I want. I will stick with dark
mode. And I will stick with number one
because I do have a subscription. And it
is asking me to give it permission so
that I could log on with my account. And
I'll click enter to continue. Gives me a
little bit warning here. [music] I
understand. and I will hit enter and I
will stick with the recommended settings
and yes continue to give it permission
to work in my directories. So right now
we are ready to work with claude and if
I actually typed in /mcp we could see
what servers we have access to and so
far we only see this option manage mcp
servers. So, why don't we go ahead and
bring up our Docker desktop. And as you
can see, right now, we don't have any
servers under my server. But if we hop
on over to our clients, we now have the
option for connecting with cloud code.
And boom, on the bottom right hand side,
you see client connected to the MCP
toolkit. So now when we go back to cloud
code. So to continue I want to go ahead
and restart cloud. So let me go ahead
and exit and start it up again.
And at this point when I type in MCP
I can see that I have access to the MCPS
that Docker will provide. So now we're
going to move on to a a realworld demo.
It's going to be a todo to ticket
automation demonstration
and uh we can do this because we've now
connected cloud code to docker mcp
toolkit [music] and we now want to see
it in action. In this practical example,
we're going to [music] be automatically
converting to-do comments in a real code
base into tracked Jira tickets complete
with git history priority categorization
and proper linking. And we're going to
be required to configure three MCP
servers. We're going to be orchestrating
the file system MCP specifically to scan
our codebase and read source files. Then
there's the GitHub MCP to run Git Blame
and extract author information. And then
there's Atlasian MCP to create and
manage Jira issues. We'll walk through
enabling and configuring all of these
three servers. [music]
And configuration for the Atlantian
server will be done under the
configuration tab here which we will
talk about later. And this also applies
to the other MCP servers always under
the configuration tab. [music] As we go
through this walkthrough, if you go to
my servers, you will end up having three
of the MCP servers we just discussed as
you see here. Now, what makes this
realistic? We're going to be using
actual codebase called catalog service
node. We're going to be extracting git
blame info to identify code authors.
This process categorizes by business
priority using keyword analysis. It
creates properly formatted Jira issues
with context and even links back to
exact file and line numbers for easy
navigation. Now, if we're doing this
manually, this would take us about 20 to
30 minutes. But throughout this process,
as it's going to be automated, it should
only take it a couple of minutes. So
let's go and walk through starting with
configuring the servers. So we're ready
to enable Docker to work with Ajira
issues. But before we can connect Docker
in any way to handle Jira issues, we
need Atlancian, the parent company of
Jira credentials that tell Docker's MCP
server where to look and what
credentials to use. If you don't already
work with Jira, you'll want to set up an
Atlantian account for these credentials.
And there's three of them. the Jira URL,
your Jira username, which is usually
your email, and an API token. To set up
an account, you can navigate to the
atlancian.com
website. And when you [music] click sign
in, you'll have an option to create an
account here. And in my case, I just use
one of my Google accounts. I can go
ahead and show you how to start that
process by clicking one of these and
then start the process to create your
account. Once you have your account,
you'll get an option to set up a test
project, which will look similar to
this. And this will be the test project
that we'll interact with. Now, you will
need to generate an API key. And to do
so, you'll just want to enter in this
URL. You'll be prompted to verify
yourself. And then you will come to this
screen right here, which will give you
an option to create an API token. Once
you have all your credentials for
working with Jira issues, all you need
to do is go to the MCP toolkit and under
catalog, we can search for Atlassian,
which is right over here, and add that.
And as you can see here, it says it
requires some secrets to work. So for
the configuration, all I'll need to do
is put in my URL. Of course, you'll have
your own Jira username, which is my
email. And then for the API token that I
created, I will need to put that in for
my personal token. And I'll click the
check mark. I'll do it again for the
Jira API token. Click the check mark.
And we're going to keep doing this until
we don't see that yellow warning sign.
I'll put it for my Confluence personal
token. And then the Confluence API
token. And the nice thing about
configuring it like this in Docker is
because it keeps all your secrets out of
plain environment variables and config
files. Everything stays protected inside
Docker and you only have to set it up
once for the server for it to work
across all your MCP clients. One
important note here is that it is
crucial that we have https
colon/ slash indicated here. Beautiful.
Then I'll go ahead and click save. And
now if we navigate to our my servers, we
see that Atlassian is set up. So now
before we go ahead and configure any
other servers, let's go ahead and test
to make sure that this one works. So I'm
restarting Claude to make sure that it
has the latest configuration
information. And I'll give it permission
right here to access my files. And I'll
simply ask it to list the last two Jira
issues in my project.
Okay, it looks like it will be using the
MCP Docker server. All right, this looks
good so far. I see you've mentioned
mobile banking and it's prompting us to
get all issues for this specific project
which I'll say yes.
Beautiful. And there you have it. NBA 8
and NBA 6 which matches these two right
here. Now behind the scenes you'll
notice that we executed Jira get product
issues and if we hopped over to the MCP
toolkit and clicked on our Atlassette
server you'll see that there are 42
tools available which one of them are
Jira get project issues. If for any
reason you're having issues and you need
to look back at your configuration to
modify it, you can hop over to your
configuration tab right over here to
either delete the secrets, read it, or
modify any of the variables up here. All
right, so the next server that we want
to add onto our list is GitHub,
specifically GitHub official, which
[music] I'll go ahead and click add
server. Here I do need to give it some
form of authentication and I can do it
by a personal access token or using O.
And the main [music] difference being is
that OOTH gives temporary revocable
access through a secure signin flow
while a personal access token is a long
lived direct key you could generate
manually to give the server ongoing
access without logging in. We will be
using OOTH. Once I click this link here,
I can go ahead and press authorize and
it'll bring up this site here. Now I'll
click authorize Docker.
Select open Docker. And at the bottom
right hand corner you can see login code
received for GitHub. And now if we go to
my servers I see GitHub official. And
under tools, these are the ones that
will be available for us to use. And
under configuration, it says that it is
authenticated. So now let's hop on over
to the terminal to give it a test. Okay.
And now from the terminal, I am going to
restart Claude. I also restarted the
terminal session because it did make a
difference in my particular case, but
sometimes you just need to restart
Claude. And from here, I will ask it to
do a simple test to get us our GitHub
account name.
And it looks like it's going to use the
MCP Docker. That looks good. We'll hit
enter. And there you go. the rental that
is my account name. All right. So, we
are ready to add our last server here
and I created a directory called MCP
toolkit project claude where we're going
to put our project in. And I want to
make sure that I have a copy of the path
here. So, I'm going to go ahead and copy
that. And then what we're going to do is
add the file system MCP server which is
used to allow claw to read files from
our local system. And we're going to
need to specify which directories it has
access to. So I'm going to go ahead and
add the server
and then take a look under my servers
where it was added. I see the tools here
that it has available for us. And under
configuration, I'm going to put in the
path. Hit the plus sign [music]
and hit save. And I'll tab away and tab
back just to make sure that it's there.
And now we're ready for a quick test in
terminal.
Now from the terminal, I'll go ahead and
start cla. And for our quick test, we're
going to ask it to list allowed
directories
and see what it returns.
And it ideally should indicate the path
that we just gave it. Perfect. MCP
Docker list allowed directories. That's
the tool it's going to use. We'll say
yes.
And there we go with our allowed
directory, the exact path that we gave
it. Okay. So, now that we have all our
servers installed and configured, we are
ready to run our automation.
And I'm going to be cloning our test
project that we're going to be working
off. And then navigate into our
directory for catalog service node. And
what I want to show are the instructions
that I'm going to give Claude here.
We're going to ask it to scan the code
base, extract the comment and
surrounding code context. It's going to
utilize get blame to ID, who wrote it,
determine priorities, and then create
issues, and lastly, give us a summary.
One thing that I want to mention with
these directions here is that the only
thing that I changed different from what
the original blog had is I changed my
project ID to MBA. so that it matches my
Jira project. And in the context of the
servers, it's going to be using the file
system MCP to scan our directory, the
GitHub MCP to run get blame and get
author info, and then the Atlassian MCP
to create Jira issues. All right, so
we'll start cloud here, and we are going
to paste the directions that we just
went over and let the magic begin.
So, right now it's doing all the
scanning and reading. And now it's moved
on to the get blame. And I'll speed this
up for editing purposes.
And now we move on to creating the Jira
issues.
Right over here at the very top, you can
see that it's invoking the Jira batch
create issues. So, it's going to create
batch of issues. Let's go ahead and
accept that to proceed.
Looks like it created issues
successfully and then started updating
some fields.
This time I'll hit number two so it
doesn't ask me again
and just accepts it by default.
So I worked on a lot of high priority
issues and now it's moving on to medium
and low priority issues.
Yes to creating the batch issues.
And now we're towards the end where it's
creating a summary report.
Okay, look at that. Here is our summary
report.
The total of todo and fix me comments
found word 19. And then we have a nice
breakdown by priority starting off with
high, medium, and low. And then the
issues that were created are indicated
here. And now if I go to Jira, we can
now see all these other issues that have
been created which were not there
before.
So, in just under two minutes, Claude
has scanned the entire codebase,
identified 15 plus to-do fix me
comments, retrieved git history for each
one, categorized them by business
priority, created properly formatted
Jira issues with full context, and
linked each issue back to the exact file
and number. For example, if we were to
open up this issue here, you could see
at towards the bottom where there's the
GitHub link. What would have taken 20 to
30 minutes of manual work is now
automated and consistent. So, as you can
see, Docker gives you a clean,
consistent, and secure way to run
everything. And with access to pre-built
servers that you can add with just a
single click along with a simple secure
credential setup, the toolkit removes
all the manual work that normally slows
developers down. And as you saw, once
cloud code connects through the MCP
toolkit, we can orchestrate multiple
servers together. So let me know in the
comments which MCP servers that you'd
like to see in action next. And of
course, if you got value out of this
video, make sure to hit that like button
and also check out this video here, too.
