So, I'm going to provide an update on
our business and I'm really going to
distill everything down that you've
heard today and will hear in the balance
of the presentations into the numbers.
take a look back at our achievements,
uh, financial performance over the last
12 months, and then go back and look at
our performance over the last five years
and show you how we've tracked against
the plans that we laid out for you at
our investor day in 2020. And yes, as
you may recall, we did hold an in-person
investor day in 2020, and some of you
were here, one or two. We will then look
forward. I'll provide an update on our
five-year plan focusing in on our
private holdings and in the process of
the presentation really showcasing to
you the resilience, stability and
predictability of our earnings with the
punchline really being that the growth
profile, the outlook and the numbers
that we will present to you today is
very strong.
Over the last five years, we have
delivered earnings growth of 22% on an
annualized basis over the last five
years. 22% growth in earnings on an
annualized basis over the next 5 years.
And we've grown our plan value ahead of
our long-term targets of 15% plus,
delivering plan value growth of 16% on
an annualized basis.
Importantly, as Bruce has just touched
on, the foundations are in place to
continue that trajectory of growth as we
move forward.
And we're really well positioned to
continue to scale our earnings at 20%
plus throughout the plan period. Now, we
did it for the last five years, and
we're positioned to deliver it again
over the next five years. And that
growth comes from two key areas. The
first is us participating in the growth
that is delivered by our core
businesses. That's the growth coming
from asset management, wealth solutions
and our operating businesses.
The second area is capital allocation.
We take the excess cash flow that we
generate in the business and we reinvest
it planting the seeds for future
earnings growth. But over the planned
period that adds another 5% to our
growth.
In total, that's 25% compound annual
growth in earnings over the next five
years.
And this continues to be underpinned by
a conservative balance sheet that's
conservative in terms of our
capitalization and maintaining high
levels of liquidity, providing a
platform for the franchise to deliver
its evolution and its growth.
And with our business philosophy firmly
in place, the earnings growth that we're
projecting, we expect to deliver a plan
value per share growth on an annualized
basis over the next 5 years. Again,
ahead of our plans of 15% delivering
delivering 16% growth, ending up at $210
a share in five years time.
So let's start with a review of the
past.
Last year when we were investor day,
global interest rates were peaking or
had peaked and were starting to come
down and we identified tailwinds that
would come about from that that would
impact our business and the real
punchline was investors around the world
on the back of that change had started
to change their investment posture.
Investors were going from risk off to
risk on and that played out in three key
ways or we expected it to play out in
three key ways. First, rates coming down
combined with increased liquidity coming
back to the capital markets we expect
would drive spreads down and lead to
lower borrowing costs globally.
Secondly, as investors look to move from
the sidelines and put their capital to
work, we expected an increase in
transaction activity and with increased
liquidity and increased desire to
invest, we expected higher valuations,
higher multiples and lower cap rates.
And we saw that play out in our
earnings. We raised over $95 billion of
capital in the business. We deployed
$135 billion into new investments. We
executed $155
billion of financings. And importantly,
and a real step change to the last few
years, we monetized over $75 billion of
assets.
And you can see that in the earnings
performance of our different businesses.
Again, we delivered 21% growth in DE
before realizations in the last 12
months. And that played through the
different parts of our core businesses.
Our asset management business increased
its fee related earnings by 18%.
I touched on the last page that we
raised over $95 billion of capital, but
importantly 75% of that came from
complimentary strategies underlining the
diversification that we've built in our
asset management franchise.
Our wealth solutions business delivered
distributable earnings of 1.7 billion.
But importantly, as we've scaled that
business, we have maintained and
sustained the return on equity in line
with our long-term targets of 15% plus.
And our operating businesses continue to
benefit from strong operating
fundamentals with our renewable power
and transition and infrastructure
businesses growing their FFO by 13%. In
our real estate business, we delivered
$5 billion of monetizations from the
balance sheet. And in our private
equity, essential service and cash
flowing businesses, we grew IBIDA by
15%.
In addition to that, we returned over
$1.5 billion of capital to our
shareholders. That was $500 million in
regular dividends. But as we saw the
disconnect between our view of plan
value and where the shares were trading
in the market, we opportunistically
repurchased over a billion dollars of
shares. adding value to each remaining
share.
Our valuation methodology for the
business remains unchanged. We apply the
relevant valuation technique or approach
to each of our businesses based on their
sector cash flow, their outlook, their
growth profile, and the value of the sum
of the parts. The total is $161 billion
today net of debt or $102 per share. And
here you can see how that's broken out
across our asset management, wealth
solutions, and our operating businesses.
That plan value has increased by 22% in
just the last 12 months. That's 28
billion of value added in just 12
months. The contribution comes from
across the business. We've had strong
performance within asset management
participating in the growth of
Brookfield Asset Management and its
capitalization. But growth has also come
from other parts of asset management,
our wealth solutions and our operating
businesses. That plan value today as the
multiple applied against our last 12
months earnings is 27 times. But if we
project out our plan, if we project out
the earnings growth that we have for the
business over the next 5 years and apply
the valuation to an average of those
next five years earnings, the multiple
drops to 16 times underlining the growth
profile that we have in the business.
Now, five years ago at investor day,
which many of you probably were watching
on the screen, we set our targets to
grow our DE before realizations
to $4.8 billion. We targeted 19% growth
and we planned to grow our planned value
to $100 a share and we exceeded that. We
didn't grow by 19%, we grew by 22%
taking DE before realizations to 5.3
billion. and we increased our plan value
to $102 per share. This is very
important. As we look back five years
ago and look at the plans we set out, we
surpassed them. And it's really
important to keep a note as we think
about the plan that we've set ourselves
for the next five years.
But better yet, as we've grown the
business, we've also diversified our
earning streams within each of our
businesses, within asset management,
within our operating businesses. they've
diversified. But as you can see from
2023 onwards, the contribution of our
wealth solutions business, that's us
taking our excess capital, seeding it
into the business to build new earnings
drivers for the franchise. And you can
start to see that come through our
earnings, which provides a great
platform as we look forward.
And we achieved a total return target
ahead of our 15% that we target. the
growth in plan value of 16, the average
dividend yield of one, taking the total
compound annual return based on plan
value to 17% over the last 5 years. And
as Bruce touched on, we've also
delivered a really strong return to
shareholders, 19% over the past 30 plus
years, far in excess of comparable
indices.
But we still believe despite the strong
performance of our share price over the
last 12 months, we still believe that
the share price today offers a very
attractive entry point to investors. You
think about the share price today
against last 12 month earnings, it's an
18 times DE multiple. But again, if we
do the same analysis of projecting that
out against our projected earnings for
the next 5 years, on an average basis,
that multiple drops to just 10 times. So
to say it again, we still believe
today's share price offers a very very
attractive entry point for investors.
So looking forward at the plan,
our value propositions as I touched on
at the beginning, it really is centered
around two core themes. The first is our
participation in the growth of our core
businesses. The second is the value that
we add by effectively allocating our
excess cash flow and capital.
And there are some key themes that we
think are fueling the growth of the
business. We've touched on some of them
already, but just as a reminder, the
increasing institutional and individual
allocation to alternatives is driving
growth across the franchise.
The scaling of BWS as a core part of
Brookfield and an increased integration
into the business is going to allow us
to sustain our growth for the long term.
The generational investment
opportunities for AI will be a
foundational comp component of many of
our products that we offer to clients
and where we look to deploy capital. And
then more specifically, we expect
declining interest rates, strong capital
markets, the real estate recovery and
increased transaction activity to
directly benefit our earnings over the
plan period.
And this translates into a diversified
earnings growth profile over the next
five years with many different parts of
the business all contributing to that
growth. I would just point out on this
slide that the growth in the operating
businesses looks lower but the earnings
of those operating businesses are
growing. We touched on renewable power
infrastructure grew at 13% in just the
last year. They continue to grow but
that is offset in this plan by the fact
we'll be monetizing real estate which is
in this bucket along the way.
So, let's dig into our core businesses.
Our $180 billion of perpetual capital is
spread across our three businesses:
asset management, wealth solutions, and
operating businesses. We can slice this
a different way by looking at how that's
broken out between our public and our
private holdings.
our public holdings of $82 billion.
They're covered extensively quarterly
earnings materials, analyst coverage.
They have their own investor days. So,
we're going to focus today on the
private holdings which total $98 billion
in total.
And we can break those down. They're $98
billion in total into four areas. The
first of those would be our direct
investments. This is the capital that we
have invested into funds managed by BAM
totaling $12 billion today.
The second is our carried interest. This
is our right to earn a share of the
profits generated for clients within the
funds managed by BAM. We have our wealth
solutions business and then we have our
onbalance sheet real estate.
So if I take each of those in turn and I
start with our direct investments,
the direct investments today total $12
billion. They're invested across a
series of funds. But if you look at the
target returns of these funds on an
average basis, those returns are in line
with the long-term targets that we set
for our capital, the 15% long-term
target.
And the funds are all performing in line
with their target. What this means is
our capital is compounding away at 15%
plus. Highly attractive investments for
our balance sheet. If we project out our
plan over the next 5 years, we expect to
surface $5 billion of capital net of new
investment from these investments over
the next 5 years. And there's two
combinations there. Obviously, it's from
monetizations of assets and return of
capital. And the second is as we move
through the plan period, we expect our
share of the investments into these
funds to actually reduce over time. As
Satchin scales BWS and in it increases
its allocation to equity investments, we
expect to share more of these fund
investments with BWS moving forward. So
again, $12 billion invested today and we
expect to surface $5 billion of capital
on a net basis over the next five years.
Now turning to carried interest and
Hadley touched on this earlier but I I'm
going to dig into it a bit more detail
and do a bit of a refresher but really
carry continues to be a material
component of our value proposition and
we believe it is still underestimated.
We are in our carry from two sources.
The first of these we call our legacy
funds. These are the funds that were
raised before the separate listing of
Brookfield Asset Management, i.e. funds
that were raised before the end of 2022.
For those funds, we earn 100% of the
carried interest, 100%, but we also
incur 100% of the costs. So, this is a
legacy. This is a cash flow stream from
funds raised before 2023 that will run
off to zero over time. And in that time,
we will earn a combined margin of 65%.
The second stream is what we call the
royalty. This is against funds raised
from the start of 2023 onwards where we
have a perpetual right to earn 33% of
the carry and we incur zero costs. This
is effectively a perpetual royalty at a
100% margin.
Now how that carry makes its way into
income is also worth refreshing. We
follow a European model for the
waterfall as how it comes into income.
That means we realize carry on a fund by
fund basis which is different to an
American waterfall which realizes carry
on an investment byinvestment basis. We
follow the life cycle set out on the
page. First we invest the capital of a
fund. We then sell assets and return all
of that capital to our clients. We work
our way through the preferred return
across the entire fund. And once that
preferred return has been delivered, we
start to realize carry on every
incremental dollar.
Now over the life of a fund, the carry
you realize under a European and
American waterfall is exactly the same.
But under our approach, that recognition
is deferred to later in the life of the
fund.
This approach
ensures strong alignment of interest
with our clients. We do not realize any
carry until the risk of clawback is very
remote. It derisks future carry
recognition. And if you think about how
you work through that waterfall, it also
dramatically increases your line of
sight to carry as you work through the
process.
And we believe that our carried interest
is now very much at an inflection point.
the scale, diversification and number of
the funds that we have right now is
increasing dramatically the carry
potential to Brookfield Corporation.
Second, transaction activity, as you've
seen in our results and recent
achievements, has dramatically
increased.
That means we're returning more capital
to our clients, which is going to result
in larger, more stable, and consistent
stream of carried interest coming in
cash and into income for the
corporation.
To put that into numbers, over the next
10 years, we expect the net realized
carried interest to Brookfield
Corporation to be $25 billion. It was
just $4 billion for the last 10 years.
we expect to be $25 billion in the next
10 years. If we narrow that time frame
down even more to just the next three
years, it's $6 billion of net realized
carried interest that we expect to
realize in cash and into income over
that period. But to think about the line
of sight we have to that 6 billion.
Twothirds of the carry twothirds of the
six billion will come from seven funds
just seven funds that have a proven
track record and on aggregate have
already returned 90% of their capital.
So it's that increased line of sight
that's giving us the confidence in our
ability to recognize this carry into
income over the plan period.
And as I mentioned, the carry potential
of the organization is increasing
significantly. If you think about the
plans that were laid out by Connor and
Hadley in their presentation, carry
eligible capital is scaling to $575
billion over the next five years. As we
execute our plans, buy for value and
create value in our investments. Annual
generated carried interest is scaling to
seven billion dollars five years from
now. and realized carried interest is
increasing up to $6 billion on a gross
basis. Now, if you look at the plan five
years from now, you can see the gap
between the gross and the net is
widening out. What that is in practice
is those legacy funds running off and
the royalty funds starting to be the
more meaningful contributor to carried
interest for the corporation in the
future, but still generating meaningful
amounts of cash to the corporation as we
move forward.
Now, we value this carried interest
today at $34 billion. The valuation
approach we have here is consistent with
how we've shown it in the past. Is
taking the target carried interest net,
which is the carry compounding for us
every day. The returns that we have
against the carry eligible capital is
$2.7 billion of annual net target carry
today at a 10 times multiple is a plan
value of 27 billion. If we add on the
accumulated unrealized carry, that is
the amount that if we sold everything
today at the current marks is what we
would realize into income. Add that to
the 27 and we have a value of $34
billion.
Now, we've tried to come at this a
slightly different way to validate uh
the $34 billion. We've also run a DCF
and we've broken the DCF into three
lines. We've done an MPC MPV of the
legacy funds, running out the cash flow
that we expect to receive from those
funds that are running off and
discounted it back to today. We've done
an MPV of the royalty cash flow stream,
running out the royalty over the next 10
years and discounting it back. And
lastly, we've applied a franchise value
to the royalty stream at the end of the
10-year period and discounted it back
today to prove out that the $ 34 billion
at an 8.5% discount rate. and we run a
small sensitivity. The punchline I would
really have on carry is it's very
meaningful to our value proposition. It
will generate significant cash and
income for the business for the next 5
years and as we move forward and it's
very valuable to the corporation.
If I pull all of that together and look
at the overall growth profile that we
have from the asset management business
distributable earnings from BAM, that is
just our share of the growth of
Brookfield Asset Management, 18% Kagger.
Distributable earnings from our direct
investments, they're growing, but our
capital at risk is coming down as we
reduce our investment. And then the
benefit and the realization of carried
interest into income culminates in a 20%
compound annual growth rate from our
asset management business over the next
five years.
Now I'm going to touch quickly on real
estate and wealth solutions just to tie
it into the plan, but Kevin and Satchin
will be coming up to provide much more
detail on those businesses. Bruce
touched on it within real estate. We are
very well positioned right now to
capitalize on the global real estate
recovery and that recovery is very much
underway benefiting from declining
interest rates, stronger capital markets
and increased transaction activity.
Fundamentally and importantly, the
operating metrics of real estate are
also improving significantly. We see
this around the globe. supply demand
fundamentals are firmly in favor of
existing assets and with the the quality
of the portfolio that we have, the deep
operating capabilities that we have, we
feel we're really well positioned to
deliver meaningful growth from our real
estate business. So, what do we have to
do over the next five years? We just
have to execute, right? We have we've
laid all the foundations and as the
markets improve, as the liquidity gets
there, we need to refinance and as
transaction activity picks up. If we
have assets that we want to monetize, we
have to monetize and we have to execute.
Now, these tailwinds are going to play
out in two key ways for the business,
stating the obvious. They're going to
drive NOI and FFO growth, and they're
going to facilitate the sale of assets.
And if we are successful in executing
these plans, we have the ability and the
potential to generate up to$ 24 billion
dollars of cash on a gross basis as we
execute the plan. In our real estate
presentation from Kevin, you'll see the
breakdown of the allocation of that
cash. In all likelihood, with that cash
that comes in, some of that will be
reinvested back into the business to pay
off debt, but only to pay off debt in
line with the reduction of the asset
base if we're selling. And if we execute
that and play it through, the planned
value five years from now will be $15
billion, generating $640 million of
earnings.
Again, the real estate recovery is
underway and it's poised to deliver
significant cash flow to our business.
The wealth solutions business is scaling
significantly and it's scaling as a
sustainable investment business. We've
been focused since its inception on
executing our growth plans. We've built
leading origination platforms in the US,
in Canada, in the UK now and focused on
expanding further into Asia. As we've
done this, we have maintained our
discipline. This is a growth. This is a
business whose growth has been led by
the investment opportunity set that we
see, not by inflows. And in doing that,
we've been able to sustain our 15% plus
target returns on equity. And
importantly, importantly, we've been
scaling without sacrificing the risk
profile of overall Brookfield. If we can
execute our plan for the business, we
will scale insurance assets to $350
billion at the end of the plan period,
more than doubling our earnings.
And we believe that building the
business in the way that we're doing it,
building an investment insurance company
will strengthen the overall growth
profile of Brookfield for the long term.
It drives long-term alignment and it
will drive long-term value creation. How
that will play out in practice is we
expect to see deeper integration and
utilization of the Brookfield balance
sheet to help scale the wealth solutions
business. We expect that growth to have
significant benefits for the Brookfield
ecosystem. As BWS grows, it's going to
offer more and more attractive
opportunities for the corporation to
invest capital at attractive returns.
It's going to provide growth for
Brookfield Asset Management. And at the
same time, the wealth solutions business
benefits from the deep investing and
operating capabilities that BAM has to
offer. And it benefits from the capital
that the corporation can provide it to
achieve that growth. And importantly,
with a business that's funded by our own
balance sheet, with our own capital,
where we're focused on downside
protection, and where we have proven
track record of returns, we create a
very strong alignment of interest with
the policyh holders. And as I said, we
believe all of this can be achieved
without changing the risk profile of our
business.
As I said, we believe we can more than
double the earnings of the business over
the next 5 years, taking earnings to 5
a.5 billion. We provided a range of
valuation multiple five years from now.
We use 15 times today given the growth
profile that we have. We used 12 last
year but we actually believe now that we
can sustain this growth for the long
term. So we're showing 12 to 15 in our
plans. We're being more conservative and
just adopting the 12. But importantly
again you can see that there's
tremendous growth ahead of this
business.
The second key component of our value
proposition is our capital allocation.
And we have followed a disciplined
centralized framework to capital
allocation. And this is a an approach
that has been methodically developed and
built and followed over many years. Our
businesses every day are executing their
plans. We own highly cash generative
businesses. They're generating cash
every day. They are focused on their
singular singular sector, singular
industry. Our approach in Brookfield has
always been to take that cash flow and
move it up the chain to places where we
have a broader perspective on capital
allocation where we can move the capital
to where we see the best opportunity for
deployment and the best returns at any
point in time. And it's that centralized
approach to capital allocation and it's
that flexibility that we believe is one
of our greatest strengths.
The focus areas once we have moved the
cash up to the corporation and where we
have that broader lens, we're focused on
a four key areas for capital allocation.
The first of those is to support the
growth and to invest alongside our core
businesses.
The second is to invest in strategic
transactions. If you think back to the
last five years, the acquisition or the
investment in Oakree and the scaling of
BWS would be transformative investments
that we've done. But we also invest make
smaller investments investing into
smaller businesses where we think having
risk or exposure will give us learnings
that will be for the betterment of the
overall franchise. And we continue to
allocate small amounts of capital to
these areas.
We retain ample liquidity to defend
against downside risk. If you think
about just the last 5 years and the
cycles that we've been through in the
capital markets, retaining ample levels
of liquidity ensures that at no point in
a cycle are we ever forced to do
anything that is value destructive at
the worst point in time. After we've
covered off those bases, we are left
with capital to return to shareholders.
And as you know, we look to do that
opportunistically, predominantly through
buybacks.
Over the past five years, we have
reinvested $ 31 billion of capital
across our businesses. And I want to
double click on a couple of areas just
to showcase the value that's added to
the franchise.
We've invested $12 billion of our
capital to scale BWS.
Investing $12 billion to acquire
companies at discounts to book value
where we've realized expense synergies.
We've grown the annuity base. We've
invested the float at much higher
returns. And in doing so, we've turned
that12 billion into a business that we
believe should be valued at$26 billion
today. But importantly, against that 12
billion of capital, we're now generating
$300 million today of fees to BAM, which
will scale significantly over the next 5
years. A net of those fees, we're
generating $1.7 billion of annual cash
flow for the business, which again is
going to scale over the next five years.
So again, retaining that capital and
reinvesting it back into the business
has added significant cash flow and
value to shareholders.
Secondly, over just the past two years,
we have re repurchased $2 billion of our
own shares in the open market as we've
seen the disconnect between value and
price. We've repurchased shares at an
average price of $44 a share, adding $2
a share of value to each remaining
shareholder share, sorry.
Now looking forward over the plan period
we expect to generate 535 53 billion of
free cash flow over the next five years.
We've shown an illustrative allocation
of that cashier today. We paying the
dividends. We have assumed the retention
of earnings within Well Solutions to
support their growth. That is assumed
but it's not committed and it will only
be committed if the business can sustain
its returns on equity. And even doing
that, we would still have $25 billion of
free cash flow available to either be
reinvested or returned to shareholders.
So, bringing it all together and
providing the update to the 5-year plan,
we are set up to deliver a 17% growth in
our annualized DE before carried
interest and before the impact of
reinvestment over the next 5 years.
That grows to 25% when you factor in the
impact of realized carried interest and
capital allocation. And you can see that
that growth comes from a diversified
earning stream across the franchise.
In graphs that takes our DE before
realizations and capital allocation to
$6.90
five years from now and total DE to
$1040
at the end of the plan period.
And the plan value is actually growing
in line with what we've delivered in the
last five years. A 16% compound annual
growth rate to $210 a share. And we
believe with the foundations that we
have in place with the business today,
we are really only just getting started.
So the key takeaways I want you to have
today from the presentation and
everything you're going to hear from us
today is that we are really well set up
today to continue the trajectory of our
earnings. Again, we grew at 20% plus
over the last five years and we expect
to repeat that in the next five years.
This continues to be underpinned by our
conservative capitalization and high
levels of liquidity.
Carried interest is at an inflection
point and we expect it to be a
meaningful contributor in the next 5
years.
BWS as an investment insurance company
is positioned to enhance our capital
efficiency and ensure that we can
sustain the long-term growth trajectory
of the business. And in conclusion,
we're better positioned today than we've
ever been to deliver 15% plus returns to
our shareholders.
So I would ask that you stay tuned as we
move forward and I'll now hand over to
Kevin to walk you through the real
estate business.
