[Music]
Today I'm going to show you how to use
reference tables to add business data to
logs from retail endpoints which might
not have all the fields you're looking
for. And later I'll show you how to use
those enriched logs to create a metric
so you can more easily do data analysis
like aggregating purchase amounts from a
register. To demonstrate this, I've set
up a cloud function with a Python script
that's simulating log data from point of
sale systems. We can see these logs by
limiting to the register service. POS
systems tend to run old operating
systems or proprietary services or in
some cases we have to collect data from
somewhere else and don't have the
context we want. You might have sparse
log data with just a register name and a
purchase price. If you have this kind of
data, it can be useful and that it tells
you that there are sales going through
on this register, but it doesn't tell us
which store it is, where the store is,
or how many registers are in that store.
That's the additional information that's
useful to know if you're trying to run a
business. We can use a reference table
to add context to our log data. Our
reference table starts with a CSV file
that has the data we need. In this
example, I have a Google sheet that we
need to download as a CSV. So, we go to
file, then download, then CSV.
In data dog, we go to integrations,
reference tables, and new reference
table. In this example, I'm going to use
an existing reference table. I called
this one registers 2 because I had a
previous iteration and the table names
have to be unique. I've already uploaded
the CSV that we grabbed earlier. And if
I want to add context or indicate
ownership, I can add that data here.
Before we leave this page, I want to
confirm that register is our primary
key. The primary key is indicated by
this key icon. This is going to be what
we use to join this data to our logs.
Then the next step is using the
reference table to create a pipeline to
parse my logs. My logs are coming in as
JSON. So attributes are parsed
automatically and we can use the
existing log fields without additional
processing. To add our reference table
data, I can create a new pipeline. I'll
update the filter to show only our
register data. I'll name it registers.
Then I'll save this pipeline.
Now I'll create a processor under this
pipeline. Using a reference table to add
attributes is a lookup operation. So
we're going to use a lookup processor.
I'll name the pipeline register
enrichment. I'll select reference table
for my lookup mapping. And I should get
a drop down here that gives us the
option to select one of our existing
reference tables. It's going to
automatically connect to the primary
key. So I just need to tell the
processor which source attribute matches
the primary key. In this case it's going
to be registers.
The target attribute path is where our
new attributes are going to be stored.
I'm going to say that I want to set the
target path to register detail. Then I'm
going to enable it.
The next step is going to be confirming
the data is coming in and showing our
new attributes which we can do here. We
go to the log explorer and run a logs
query with our service name as a filter.
In the beginning we saw that we had
purchase amount, register, service and
log level. And now we have this whole
register details drop down. Now in
addition to basic sales data we have the
enrichment data accessible as
attributes. Our log data has been
enriched with store details and we can
do the kind of data analysis that's
important to a business. I can group my
data into fields. I can do things like
take an average and I can use these
standard mathematical operators on my
purchase amount.
I'm going to say that I want the sum of
my purchase amount by my register, which
is going to be the first thing we group
by.
The aggregation on this page just helps
us to get an idea of what our data look
like.
The second attribute I'm going to group
by is one of the values from register
detail. I'm going to add the store
attribute so I can see that this
register is in this store.
We can take our analysis further by
converting these logs to metrics, which
has two additional benefits. Converting
to metrics gives us 15 months of
retention by default, rather than having
to store some or all of our logs for
longer than is necessary. The second
benefit is consistency. Metrics queries
return a set of points without having to
worry about how to extract the data. In
this example, it's easy to identify
which logs have the data we want and how
to work with those values. But in a more
complex environment, it's harder to know
which data you need and how to process
it. There are a couple ways to convert
logs to metrics, but the way that I
prefer and would argue is the easiest is
clicking the more button here and
selecting generate new metric. Then
you're going to be brought to this log
configuration page. Here we can see that
we're going to measure purchase amount.
We're going to group by register and
we're going to group by register detail
store. If I want to add other details
from the lookup table, everything else
would be prefaced by register detail and
identified by the column name in the
CSV.
I'm going to call this register sales.
And each time a metric is created, I
will be able to group by register and
store. At this point, we have data
coming in. So, if I go to the metric
summary page, I can see information
about our metric. I can set this
description to something that's useful
for us. In this case, it's useful to
know that this is store purchase data.
This description is straightforward, but
for some metrics, the mechanism or
schema behind them is complicated, and
it's helpful to put something here to
remember how it all works. If we scroll
down here, we can see which tags we have
coming in. In our case, we're grouping
by register and store. And if I click
down here, I can see examples, and I can
search for specific tags.
If I want to see what the actual metric
values are, I can click open in metrics
explorer and then I can average by
individual register or I can aggregate
by store.
What we're really going to want to do is
to save this to a dashboard. I can click
this save to dashboard button. I can
create a new dashboard and when I click
save and open, we'll be brought to our
new dashboard. What might be useful is a
table where we group by store detail and
then group by register so we can see
what the average sales are per register
with the store information.
So that's how you can add business data
to your logs. Namely, we added store
details to logs from POS systems and use
the additional data to create metrics so
we can do data analysis. Hopefully you
found this tip useful and if you want to
learn more or go deeper into this topic,
I'll add docs and further useful
resources to this video's description.
Thanks for checking out this video.
[Music]
