Is it possible to learn Apple-style
motion graphics in 40 minutes? Well,
yes. Most people don't realize how
simple it is. You just need two
components, expressions and timing. And
if you had 60 frames per second, you're
going to get that buttery smooth
Apple-style animations. So, in today's
video, I'll show you the mechanics
behind it. We're going to use the
technique known as morphing. It will
allow us to go from one shape to
another, and if you use the right timing
and bounce expression, it will look
premium as And companies might be
more interested in your editing. So,
with no more theory, let's get straight
into the practice. Once you're in After
Effects, create a new comp. Set the
resolution to 1920 by 1080. Then, for a
smooth look, change the frame rate to
60, and duration can be set to 10
seconds. Then, hit okay. So, the first
step to creating very minimal motion
graphics in Apple style is having clean
background. So, for this, I'm going to
right click, go to new, solid, and then
here in the color, you want to pick that
hex code. This is going to give you
something in between white and gray.
Then, we're going to hit okay, and let
me just rename it to BG. I'm going to
hit okay. By the way, guys, quick
interruption. I'm cooking an update for
my products, and this is the last time
you can get the three-in-one bundle with
all the current assets. Some of them
will be gone forever. For example, I'm
completely removing version one of
Motion Essence, and it's not only that.
But, if you get the bundle now, you're
going to get all the assets, plus you're
ensuring to get the free future update.
So, make sure to check it out before the
timer hits zero and it's gone. Link in
the description. Now, back to the show.
The next step would be creating the
shape because we need something to
morph. So, for this, I'm going to head
over here, press and hold, and I'm going
to pick round rectangle tool. So, if you
start creating a shape and you hold
shift, you're going to be able to create
kind of a circle. Then, we're going to
re-center, and if you don't have a
circle, you want to make sure to round
it up over here. Seems good enough, but
I'm just going to change the color over
here to something almost white.
Let's hit okay, and then this is going
to be called frame.
And now is the time to apply our
expression. So, for this, you want to
head over to the comment section below,
and then grab the first expression I
left for you. So, now with that
expression, we're going to head over to
our frame, open it up, go to contents,
rectangle one, rectangle path one, and
here we're going to all click the
stopwatch for size. Now, in the
expression window you want to paste the
expression and then click away. All
right, so this is our initial position,
but we're not going to set up any
keyframes yet. So, what I'm going to do
is close it down, then I'm going to
duplicate the layer, and we're going to
rename it to circle. So, that circle is
going to be our blue button in the
middle. So, what I'm going to do is head
over to our color, and this time I'm
going to paste that hex code. Let's hit
okay, and then as you can notice it's in
the exact same size as our frame. So,
for this we're going to decrease the
size a little bit, and we are kind of
aiming for something like that. So, now
in that circle we're going to need an
arrow. So, what I'm going to do is make
sure this layer is selected, then I'm
going to grab the pen tool, and I'm
going to try to roughly create that
arrow.
Just like that. We can't really see
anything because we have the stroke
turned off, so I'm going to click here,
then click on the solid color, hit okay,
and we're going to turn off fill.
Seems pretty good, but it's very harsh
on the edges, so I'm going to head over
to the line cap, and I'm going to round
it up. And also in the join.
All right, little adjustment. Make sure
to use white color, and should be good.
Maybe let's push it a bit towards the
left. Honestly, it's going to be very
visible because it's going to move very
fast, so don't worry if it doesn't look
perfect. So, now I'm going to go back to
our shape one, and I'm just going to
change the stroke width to six. And now
we're going to make some order here. So,
I'm going to open it up, go to contents,
and this is going to be called arrow,
and this is going to be called circle.
So, now let's select both of them. So,
if you hold shift and click on another
one, you're going to be able to do so,
and then I'm going to click on the
stopwatch for scale, and I'm going to
head over to our frame, and here in the
size we're going to borrow that
expression. So, I'm going to hit control
C, and then in the first scale in the
circle, I'm going to all click the
stopwatch, and I'm going to paste that
expression.
So, now our goal is to have as few
keyframes as possible. It's just going
to be easier to operate. So, what I'm
going to do is delete that keyframe, and
I'm going to parent our scale from here
to the scale over here in the circle.
So, that way that scale is going to
follow what this scale does, but we kind
of want to have it a little bit later
than this scale. So, it's not showing up
at the same time. But, first we need to
create the movement because we have only
one keyframe. So, I'm going to push it
forward, and I'm going to go to the
beginning, and I'm going to change it to
zero. So, now take a look at that. So,
this is looking pretty cool, but the
problem is that it's at the same time.
So, what we're going to do to offset our
arrow a little bit is opening up our
expression window here, and we're just
going to add something to the
expression. So, now you want to add the
dot, and then we're going to type in
value at time like that. Then, you're
going to pick this over here. So, I'm
going to hit enter.
And here in the brackets, I'm going to
type in time minus 0.1.
So, that way that arrow is going to show
up a little bit later. And whenever
you're offsetting some of the assets,
it's just looking way better. Also, if
you click on the arrow over here, you're
going to notice that our anchor point
from the arrow is set up over here. So,
it's kind of growing from the upper
side. So, what we could do is grab the
anchor point tool,
and put it in the middle.
Now, I'm going to close down everything.
Then, I'm going to hit U again, and I'm
going to open up our frame. So, here
what we want to do is set up a keyframe
for size. So, I'm going to do so, and
I'm going to go back, and we're going to
set it up to zero.
All right. So, it's showing up a little
bit too late. So, we're going to squeeze
it in. And here again, we can just
change the timing a little bit.
So, now the goal is to find the right
timing to start another movement. So,
now we're going to create the first
morphing technique, which is going to
expand our circle. So, what I'm going to
do is push that button over here, that
circle to the right, and automatically
the rectangle our frame is going to
grow. So, the way we do it is first
create a keyframe for positioning our
circle. So, I'm going to hit P, create a
keyframe. Then here in the size, we're
going to set up another keyframe over
here. And now, if this is going to the
right, then this is going to
automatically expand. But, what we need
to do is uncheck constrain proportions.
So, now I'm just going to expand it like
that. And let's take a look.
Okay, looking pretty cool. But, as you
can notice, this is having that bouncy
effect, but our button doesn't. So, what
I'm going to do is open up size, then
copy the expression, and we're going to
all click the stopwatch for position.
Now, let's paste it here. And we're
going to have something like that. So,
this is looking pretty awesome, but I
feel like it's a bit too slow. So, I'm
going to squeeze in these two keyframes.
And then again, we can just play around
with the timing. So, let's say we're
going to take this keyframe and have it
one frame forward.
So, as you can notice on the side, it's
just going to be a little bit different.
And it's just always looking a little
bit better. It's kind of looking like
the button is actually pushing that
rectangle. All right. So, our animation
is looking pretty cool so far, but I
feel like it's a bit too late. So, I'm
going to squeeze it in like that.
And the timing should be a bit better.
Or maybe let's put it over here.
All right. So, now is the time for our
text. So, whenever the button is pushing
the rectangle, we're going to drop our
text over here in the frame. So, I'm
going to grab the type tool. And here
I'm going to type in iPhone 17 Pro. You
can't really see anything because it's
white. So, we're going to change the
color to something like that. Let's hit
okay. All right. So, that text also
needs to be introduced with an
expression. So, what I'm going to do is
trim it over here. Then let's hit you.
And we can actually push these keyframes
a little bit backwards again.
And then I'm going to head over here to
our properties. I'm going to go to
animate
position. And here we're going to need
to drop it from the top. So, in order to
do so, we need to change the Y value.
So, I'm I'm to set it to -100,
which is going to put it over here. And
then, we're going to also need to add
opacity. So, I'm going to head over here
to add property, and let's find opacity.
Then, change it to 0%, so it's going to
reveal. And then, is the time for
another expression, which is the second
one in the comment. So, you want to head
over to add, then we're going to go over
to the selector expression. And here, if
you open it up and go over to the
amount, we got the window to paste our
expression. So, let's go ahead and do
that. And now, as you can notice, our
text is dropping with characters, but we
want to make it based on words. So, make
sure to go over here and change it to
words. And that way, we're going to have
something like that. Our next step would
be morphing it again into more extended
view. So, what I'm going to do is make
sure to go over to the circle, then I'm
going to hit you. I'm going to set a
keyframe for position over here, then
I'm going to move forward, and we kind
of want to put that circle somewhere
here because it's going to turn into a
longer button. So, what I'm going to do
is go down,
then to the left with X.
And we're going to have something like
that. All right, looks pretty cool, but
we also need to expand our size in our
circle. So, what I'm going to do is make
sure to select this layer, then head
over to our circle. And now, in the
size, I'm going to create a keyframe
that is starting together with this one.
And then, we're going to move over to
the second keyframe, we're going to
uncheck constrain proportions, and we're
going to expand X
to something like that, probably.
Maybe more. Then, we can also adjust X
over here. Actually, if you set up over
here to 960, you're going to have it
exactly in the middle. So, we got our
circle going downwards, and then we need
to expand our frame. So, for this, I'm
going to open up our keyframes in frame,
then I'm going to set a keyframe for
size, move forward, and we're going to
expand Y. Okay, let's take a look.
Okay, looking pretty cool. Okay, let's
make some adjustments here. So, we're
going to expand the size in the circle.
Also, we could squeeze it in a little
bit in Y, and we can go downwards with
position. All right, but the problem is
that it's going in a linear way and I
don't really like how it looks. So, what
I'm going to do is make sure the
position is selected and then if you
grab the pen tool, you're going to be
able to grab the point for position.
Just like that.
Let's make sure to adjust it over here.
We don't want to go overboard. Let's see
what we got.
All right, it's way better because it's
kind of turning instead of going in a
linear way.
So, we're going to leave it like that
and then what we're going to do is
duplicate our text over here for the
iPhone 17 Pro. Then in the first text,
I'm going to apply the keyframe for
opacity.
I'm going to move forward and I'm going
to change it to 0%. So, that way it's
going to disappear at this moment and
then we're going to introduce another
text.
Which is going to be actually the exact
same one, but we're going to put it in
the right upper corner.
And we're going to need to mess around
with the settings. So, let's go over to
the text and in animator one, and here
we kind of want to slide it in from the
middle. So, what I'm going to do is
change the value over here to positive
one.
And then in the X, we need to go to the
left. So, I'm going to set it to -50.
So, let's see. All right, it's looking
pretty cool, but it's in the wrong
position. So, we're going to place it
somewhere here.
Then we're going to need one more text
over here. So, what I'm going to do is
duplicate it. Then I'm going to go over
to this one.
I'm going to drop it a little bit lower.
And this is going to be our price. So,
here we're going to type in 1099.
And also we're going to change the font
to something thinner, maybe regular.
Yeah, it should be good. So, we're going
to leave it like that. And then we're
going to mess around with the settings
over here as well. So, this time I want
to introduce it from the right. So, let
me just change the value over here to,
let's say, 100. And then we want to
leave Y untouched. So, I'm going to set
it to zero. And here in the expression
selector, we're going to change based on
words to characters this time.
So, let's take a look.
Then let me just close it down again and
we're going to duplicate our iPhone 17
Pro one more time. So, this time this
layer is going to be set somewhere here
and we're going to rename it to pay.
Okay, let me just put it in the middle
over here and now in that text we're
going to change the settings again, so
I'm going to go to text animator one.
I'm going to change X to zero and this
value is going to be set to -100.
So, it's going to go from the top
but now we have a little bit of a
problem because our pay text is not
really following our button over here.
So, what I'm going to do is make sure to
take parent and link and we're going to
use the pick whip and attach it to our
circle. So, that way it's going to be
connected plus it's going to have its
own expression which is going to look
pretty sick. But there are a few
adjustments we need to apply. First of
all, it needs to be a little bit lower
and then whenever this is happening we
want to change the color of the button
of our circle. So, what I'm going to do
is head over to the circle, then let's
hit U.
I'm going to have the time indicator on
these first keyframes. I'm going to
create a keyframe for fill color and
here at this very moment on the second
keyframes we're going to apply that hex
code. So, let's hit okay. So, that way
it's going to turn into something like
that which is looking pretty sick
already, but we need to remove the arrow
from behind the text. So, what I'm going
to do is click on this layer, go over
here to the first keyframes, let's click
on the arrow and here I'm going to click
on the opacity. Let's move over here,
we're going to change it to zero and
let's see how it looks.
Okay, pretty cool. Let's maybe put it
somewhere here and maybe let's start
that text a little bit earlier.
Okay, I think it's better.
All right, so we got already a pretty
cool animation and the next step will be
adding our asset. So, I'm going to drop
it over here and we need to adjust the
scale and also the position.
So, I think somewhere here should fine.
And now we need to just find the
expression, so I'm going to head over to
the size. I'm going to copy the
expression. Then we're going to close it
down, and I'm going to hit P for our
iPhone.
Now I'm going to alt-click the
stopwatch, paste the expression, and
we're going to be able to set up the key
frames. So, let's place one over here,
then go to the beginning, and we're
going to drop it a little bit lower.
I'm thinking about making the movement a
little bit more subtle, so I'm going to
probably have it like that. Yeah, it's
better, I guess. And now as you can
notice, this movement, that over here,
is kind of starting out of the blue. So,
what we need to do is activate it
somehow. So, for this I'm going to head
over to the circle, which is this
button, and I'm going to hit S. Then I'm
going to create a key frame for scale,
move forward, and I'm going to push it
in by decreasing the value. All right,
then we're going to copy the first key
frame, paste it over here, and that way
we're going to have that button press.
But it's a bit too late, so let's adjust
it.
It's looking pretty cool, but I'm just
going to expand the key frames, and then
I'm going to hit F9, so it's smooth.
Okay, you need to find a sweet spot. All
right, I think this is going to be
perfect. Now we're going to morph
everything into the last segment, where
there's only an iPhone, the text, and
one of the frames. So, around this time
where the movement stops, we're going to
need to apply one null object. So, what
I'm going to do is right click, go to
new, null object. Let's place it right
above our circle,
and I'm going to rename it to circle
controller.
So, now we want to snap that anchor
point to the middle of the circle. So,
what I'm going to do is select the
circle controller, then hold shift, and
parent it to the circle. So, now as you
can notice, it's snapped, so we're going
to disable it,
and then, instead, we're going to use
the pick whip and parent it to the
circle controller.
Okay?
Now I'm going to hit P for this layer,
I'm going to open it up,
copy our expression again,
go to the position in our circle,
actually circle controller, I'm going to
all click the stopwatch, paste it here,
and we should be good. And the reason we
needed to use the null object is because
if we started to play around with the
key frames over here, it would mess up
the whole thing. Check it out. So, if I
place the key frame over here, and I
start going upwards, it's going to look
cool, but in the middle of these key
frames, where it should be stationary,
it's going to start moving.
So, this is a big problem.
So, we don't want that. So, we're going
to delete it, and with the help of the
null object, we're going to be able to
fix it. And it only happens whenever you
add the curved movement. So, keep it in
mind. So now, what I'm going to do is
set up some key frames, probably at this
moment whenever everything stops. So,
let's close down everything for now, and
we're going to start with the frame. So,
I'm going to hit you over here. I'm
going to place a key frame for size.
Then I'm also going to place a key frame
for opacity. Then we're going to head
over to the circle, and here we're going
to need a key frame for our color,
and then also the size. Now, we can move
on. Here in the circle controller, we're
going to need a key frame for position.
So, let's go ahead and create one. Then
that text is not really necessary
anymore. It's disappeared over here, so
we can trim it to this position. Then in
terms of these three texts, we're going
to use opacity key frames. So, I'm going
to hold alt shift T, and that way three
key frames are going to pop up. Now, in
terms of our iPhone, I'm going to apply
scale key frame, and also the position
key frame. Now, I'm going to open up
position, copy our expression. Let's
close it down, and I'm going to all
click the stopwatch for the scale. Let's
paste it here, and I think we're ready.
We're ready to turn it into the last
segment. So, now move couple of frames
forward. So, let me just pull it up a
little bit, and we're going to go from
the bottom. So, here I'm going to set
the opacity to zero. We're going to
squeeze in Y, just like that. Then in
terms of the color, we're going to copy
the first color from here. I'm going to
paste it, so it turns into blue. And
then, we're going to need to expand Y in
the size for the circle, and we're going
to squeeze it in a little bit in the X.
Then we need to make sure to go over to
the middle, so I'm going to open up
action safe and I'm going to drag our
position in the circle circle
controller, I mean. Let's put it like
that. Then in terms of these three
texts, we're going to change it to 0%
and our iPhone needs to get smaller
and we're going to place them somewhere
on the left. Okay, so let's see what we
got.
Okay, pretty cool. Now what I'm going to
do is create another text. So what you
want to do is duplicate pay then hit U.
We're going to have the time indicator
over here. Then I'm going to delete the
keyframes for opacity
and I'm going to place it on top. Now
you want to start that layer around this
time whenever we got the movement and
we're going to change the color to fully
white. Let's hit okay and here we're
going to change the name to track order.
Okay, let's have it somewhere in the
middle.
Okay, so this is pretty cool, but I feel
like these words could go from the
bottom. So what I'm going to do is open
up text, go to animator one and I'm
going to change the value over here to
100.
Let's see.
Okay, a little bit better. Then I'm
going to push it backwards.
And then also I'm going to head over to
the circle controller
and I'm going to expand that keyframe.
Yeah, might be a little bit better, to
be honest. Actually, this is looking
pretty cool. Yeah, I'm going to leave it
like that.
Then we also need to push in the button
for the pressing movement, so I'm going
to copy these keyframes in the circle
then paste them and it needs to happen
right before the movement starts.
And then here in the scale, I'm just
going to mess around with this. Like I
told you before, sometimes offsetting
the timing
is causing the animation to look better.
Yeah, I think this might be it. Now let
me just turn on the motion blur and
we're going to disable the action safe
and let's see.
All right, the whole animation looks
sick.
But I'm thinking about slowing down the
movement over here. Maybe let's take
these keyframes, apart from this one,
and just push it a bit to the right.
Then also this one.
Yeah, this is sick. Maybe just to smooth
it out a bit, I'm going to apply opacity
key frames to the iPhone.
Yeah, it's a bit better. In terms of a
finisher for this whole animation, I'm
going to give you a pro tip. So,
whenever you just create a null object,
then let's call it all one, and then
just attach everything that is not
parented already apart from the
background to our all one layer, then
we're going to be able to add a little
bit of rotation for the whole thing. But
first, we're going to need an
expression, so I'm going to borrow it
from a random place.
Then I'm going to hit R,
alt click the stopwatch, paste the
expression, create a key frame, move
forward, and we're just going to
slightly increase decrease. Then we're
going to copy the first key frame, paste
it here, and let's see.
Okay, now the timing's off. All right,
this is actually fire. So, just adding a
slight rotation is always kind of
stitching it all together.
We could just see how it would look if
we placed it here, so I'm going to copy
this, then let's say we're going to
paste it here, and then in the middle
key frame, I'm just going to change the
rotation to a negative value.
Okay.
Might be actually better, to be honest.
All right, guys, I think we got it. It
turned out absolutely fantastic. It's
always a lot of fun playing around with
morphing shapes.
But yeah, hopefully you found it
valuable. Make sure to check out the
video on the screen, and I'll see you in
the next one. Cheers, guys.
