It lasted 20 minutes so it was just
for show because for 20
minutes if you can buy Bitcoin for a
few cents or a few tens
of euros, I can tell you that even
Revolute is finished, you know.
Michael Sailor's strategy. Okay, I'm
not going to give a long speech about it.
We are still 1500 people, so it's
important that I point that out. Michael
Sailor, the entrepreneur behind
Microstrategy, a company that
holds 818,000 Bitcoin, a
record, is the company that holds
the most Bitcoin in the world.
The company that said for more than
5 years, you should only buy them, you should
never sell them. Bitcoin can be
bought and held, but it can
never be sold. They just announced they're selling
Bitcoin; they'll be selling it soon. It caused a
lot of panic, but in
reality, it's incredibly clever.
Terribly smart. I made a video
here because frankly, when he
announced it, I was very skeptical. I thought to myself,
"OK guys, they're in deep
trouble. If they're selling, it's because they
really have no other choice." Again
, I can't see the future and I have
no certainty. I expected
you to like the topic, but sometimes when
I post topics online, I think to myself,
"This is going to be a
total flop." There, my friends, it's unanimous.
You really enjoyed this video. That's
crazy. When I saw
Michael Sailor's announcement, I had no idea what
I would understand by listening to his
interviews, looking at the articles, and
so on. Gaetan worked incredibly hard on the
subject. He wrote me a script that is
really great and he went into
depth on the topic, between the
overall pitch of Sailor's announcement which
might sell and what I understood by
looking behind it, it's pretty
crazy. And you'll understand by watching
this video that yes, they sell
Bitcoin, but there's a reason for it, and
frankly, it's not as stupid as it seems.
As I told you, regarding the adoption of the
Clarity Act, there is a large
commission meeting on May 14th where there will be
many discussions. There are
still things to be done to get
the crypto ecosystem, the technology sector, and
the banks on board and
allow Clarity to be signed.
But there's a good chance the
deadline will be July 4th. It's tomorrow,
July 4th, so that leaves about
50 days to negotiate the Clarity
Act. Politically, it's
crazy, isn't it? If the Clarity Act passes,
we have a more than 75% chance
today on Polymarket. And if it
passes, it's really going to boost
the crypto market, you know. It will do him a
lot of good. And there are some
large institutions that are waiting for more
than that before they can get started and
offer certain solutions. And
as you know, uh, when a
bank that already holds 4.5 billion and
has hundreds of thousands
of users, or even tens of
millions of users depending on the
bank, gets into crypto, well,
it's not only a green light for
them, it's a green light for their
customers, but it's also a
green light for all the other banks that don't dare to
take the plunge. Ters
publishes its first
quarter results, 1 billion profit.
One billion in profits in 3 months, but
they're having their margins nibbled away a
little. They are no longer alone.
This means that we are an ecosystem
that behaves the same way in
any market condition,
not just when things are
stable. And they are quite right. I
think that the big audit they are
doing there, as you know, they
have mandated the Big Four to do a
big audit. Either it's just to bring
more transparency, but I don't believe it
. Either it's to finally
regulate itself and finally go public.
That's also possible. Bullish acquires
Equinity for $4.2 billion
. Guys, Bullish is a
huge group, it's regulated, it
does OTC. This is notably the
group that owns CoinDesk, for example.
So it's really a huge entity and
they just bought
a huge company for $4 billion,
knowing that they paid $2.35 billion
with shares of their company but there is still $
1.85 billion of debt
so they raised for that. They have just
acquired a company that manages
shareholder registers. So if that's
not a hybrid of the two
worlds... It's literally how you
connect, you make a big pipe between
crypto and the
traditional structure. I would like to see a
bullish market. They still take 20% over
the month. Western Union,
folks. You know that company whose
job was to move
money from point A to point B
somewhere on the planet. Western
Union has just opened a branch,
sorry, and is connecting its 3600
ATMs to Solana. 1. It was about time he
woke up, wasn't it? Because when your
job is to enable people to
make digital payments and
cryptocurrency is starting to be
adopted so widely, it's fair to say that you either
evolve or you die. There is no
magic. Two. The best
way is to make a
direct partnership, particularly through their stablecoin
USDP USDPT, I believe. Thank goodness there is
n't one more letter, it's
tiring. Kraken, the
exchange platform and the
international transfer giant Monigram are launching
a service to sell cryptos
for cash without a country. Do we realize the
madness we're in here or not? That's still
crazy. Absolutely crazy
with a quarter. It's crazy
to realize that you have
things where in Europe it's forbidden to make
payments of more than 1000
cash for individuals and 10000 for
businesses, and at the same time you have
countries that can exchange cash for
crypto. It's not
the
same world, the United States and Europe. I'm
curious to see what
document format you use. The term stablecoin
is outdated. AZ wants to change the game,
that is, we stop saying stable
coin and start saying
digital dollar currency. So, on one hand
, it's not stupid because in
reality, apart from saying stable coin
cryptostable, the reality is that the
blockchain is just a
technological support. So basically yes, whether
the dollar is on the blockchain
or in a
centralized system like a bank, it's true
that we don't need to give it a
specific name. We can just call it something like an
onchain dollar or a digital dollar.
Actually, it makes more sense to change.
However, I'm going to tell you something that's going to happen as
big as a house. The day
it is no longer a stablecoin and the day it is
a digital dollar,
something very simple will happen. And that something is
why in
France we would
not declare taxes when we switch from one crypto
to another cryptocurrencies if in fact
stablecoins are not cryptos, they
are digital currencies. So
when you switch from a cryptocurrency to a
stablecoin, you have to pay tax.
I can see that coming a mile away
. I'll even tell you something worse: we
're in France. I think the
French tax authorities will come back, they will conduct
checks on people and they will say about
previous years in 2025, 2024,
2023, they will tell them, well we
interpret the law as if at that
time, you should have already paid
the tax and they will come back to
ask you for tax on
previous years. No doubt. I'm sure that one
day they'll do that. Bitmine will
slow its land purchases as it
approaches its
accumulation target. Bitcoin has almost
4.21, I believe, in
circulation. They were buying almost
100,000 a week and now they are about to
slow down. 4.29% is
crazy, isn't it? They own 5 million
of the land. They must be doing badly on the
stock market. We saw how they took
Microstrategy, I can tell you that
Bitmine, they paid the price. It's
microstrategy on steroids on Ether.
They actually reached 135 there.
$22. We move forward: Coinbase posts a
first quarter where they lose
money. In this case, they lose 4
% on the stock market and overall yes, they make
less revenue. They expected to
have more revenue and naturally,
well, that terribly affects the
company's revenue and therefore the
value perceived by shareholders and
naturally the company's
stock market value. Overall, they
expected 1.5 billion and they
made 1.4 billion in revenue. So,
naturally, there's some grumbling. The
stock price hasn't really suffered if you
look closely, but there was a
second announcement. They also
announced they would be laying off 14% of their
staff. So you know, we're in
an era where it's very easy to
fire people by saying "No, but it's for
AI, it's to speed things up." And it's
true, there are real reasons to
lay off AI employees. It still allows you to
speed up, even if it costs you
much less. And
shareholders like that because it shows you that
you are capable of running the same company
with far fewer employees and therefore
far fewer fixed costs. They didn't
avoid the issue, they say so
clearly, that's why. They even have
teams, they want there to be
less and less hierarchy,
more than five levels under Bryan
Armstrong and under management to be
very agile. However, he does specify that it is
also because of the
state of the market, it is also because
they are making less revenue and that is also why they are
reducing
staff. But there is still a
big chunk of text in the message they
sent to all employees. a long, dense document
that only concerns employees and
explains to them that it's only for
artificial intelligence.
Humans on the periphery to harmonize
but many artificial agents,
very small teams that will manage
one or two profiles, but sometimes
even teams of a single person
who manages several agents yesterday, that's
Coin Base. To give you an
idea, I think that today
at Meria, we are not the
most tech-savvy company, we are not
ahead in certain areas. We
are regulated, so we have
very strict compliance on the tools we
can use, especially on a whole range
of things. You have customer data and
so on, but just on code, on the
way you type your lines of code, even
if you have a human behind it
today, we must have almost one
line of code out of two that comes out with
AI. That's a
huge percentage. We're not a company that does
99% AI. I believe we are
not yet agile enough with
artificial intelligence and the
tools it offers. But the world
is really, really
changing, you know? Coinbase was also down
for 5 or 6 days. What am
I saying? anything. For 5
or 6 hours, all
Coinbase services, primary market, or rather
the secondary market of Coinbase,
trading tools, everything was down
for 5 to 6 hours, solely due
to their provider who crashed Amazon
at WS. Well, as always, when it's
big enough and affects a
very, very big person for a few hours,
it makes for articles in the press and
we hear the media bringing up the
famous importance of being decentralized.
Yes, it's true that having
redundancy and having
different suppliers is important. But it's
always the same when you're called
Coinbase and you have to be able to
suddenly handle 10 times more
pressure on your infrastructure, you have
huge infrastructures that are
very often set up with the giants.
It's always very difficult to make something
very scalable, very secure and very
redundant while being on several
providers with
reasonable costs. Meanwhile, AWS has gone
down and it's hurt a
little bit like it did a few months ago. I don't know
if you remember when
Cloud Flir crashed and messed up
a large part of the internet
. We continue. Overall,
the stock fell sharply when they
announced a salary cut and
also when they announced that there were
far fewer results than
expected. But look, they
immediately took back the $2011
they had at the beginning of the month. That didn't
affect the price for very long.
It didn't really have an impact. Besides,
friends, there's something you need to understand
. Most of the big
companies in the cryptocurrency world operate
in a legal gray area; when they lack
visibility, they don't develop a
strategy. Basically, when you create your
cryptocurrency and you don't know
how the Securities Exchange
Commission will judge you, you don't know if
they will accuse you of
illegally issuing financial securities, you do
n't know if you will have fines, you go
back to the world before where you do
n't know if you will have lawsuits like
Ripple had lawsuits, you don't know if
Ethereum will be attacked as
a security, it creates real
uncertainty in the market. That's why
ton launched by Telegram, the
Telegram platform which is widely
used for chatting, for crypto,
for privacy and so on, had
launched its cryptocurrency ton, ton
coin. But they had also separated
legally. It was the Ton Foundation,
which was an entity that had nothing to
do with Telegram, that managed the
community token and so on. However,
since things have become clearer at the
SEC level, they have taken the risk of
saying it. First, they come back
saying Ton invests massively in the
token and becomes the biggest
validator. So it was Telegram that
invested in its own token to
become the largest
decentralized validator of the Ton Foundation. I
know this even off the record, I had
some problems on Telegram, I
got hacked. I had
contacts who helped me wipe my
account and get a new one. These
contacts told me, "Well, currently,
we're with Laton Foundation, and we
were contacted by Telegram. Basically,
they're all going to
join forces. It's going to be a single,
harmonized team. So there's a real
merger between Laton Foundation and
Telegram. And so, when you consider—and
I'm telling you something silly—it's
obviously a parallel—that the AMZ Coin,
launched by the director of Amazon, who
wasn't really allowed to say it
was Amazon's cryptocurrency, suddenly
announced
that yes, Amazon is taking responsibility and becoming the
largest validator of its own
blockchain. Suddenly, that wakes things up. Suddenly
, it shakes everyone up a bit
. And naturally, the token,
which was at 1, went up to 2.70 and is currently at
2.40 as I speak. That's a real jump!
Going from 1.32 to 2.90." And that's cool
because it hadn't risen too much before.
It hadn't even been exploding for five days,
I think. So they were pretty good. There wasn't any insider trading,
or at least it wasn't noticeable; it's
quite
healthy, very community-oriented, what they did was
clean. You could
expect it to double its
price a week before the announcement, you
know? But no, all this is to
show you. There are more and more, there's
a real acceleration of addresses on
the network. There have been almost a million more
addresses since the announcement in a
very short time. We can see that there's an
acceleration of the trend, and
overall, we realize that there have been
many more transactions on the
Telegram network in recent days. It's still
interesting to follow. Bitcoin
is showing a price of 2 cents on
the Revolute app. Who here has Revolute
and who received the
Revolute notification that said "Lecoin has just
lost 99% of its value and is
now worth 2 cents. That's what you call it, huh
. There is a service provider who had a
problem. There are
price providers who give prices
indicated on the platforms. What I'd like to know is, were there any
people who managed to buy
Bitcoin at -50% during the glitch? It
lasted 20 minutes. So it was just for
show because for 20
minutes, if you can buy Bitcoin for a
few cents or a few tens
of euros, I can tell you that even
Revolute, they're finished.
Silent call scam. Be careful
when you get a phone call and no
one is speaking. Generally, you
say "Hello, good morning", you say two or
three sentences. That's enough to scan your
voice, to copy it. So if you're a
YouTuber, making videos
on YouTube that last several hours, it's
pointless because you're already dead.
Anyone can copy your voice
quite easily. But otherwise, be
careful, right now he is copying a
lot of voices and then we can think
that the people most at risk are
the exposed people like me. The
reality is that I, my parents, my
employees, my colleagues are already
aware that there are people
trying to scam by impersonating me
. So it's quite
simple to educate them. If you have
family members who are not
used to it, who receive an
urgent phone call saying they
are not well, they need money
with your voice, these are
people who may not have been
educated about this. So don't
hesitate, it's silly but talk
to your grandparents, talk to your
parents and tell them that it exists,
tell them "I saw this, be careful, you know that
I'm into cryptocurrency or I've
been exposed or something like that."
Be very careful, they might ask you
things, it's not me. Or you could
ask them for a little secret word, something that only
you and your parents
know, and then suddenly
they will be able to understand that it's
a scam and a trap.
Be careful. That's all folks, we've
reached the end of the blockchain
and crypto news. We've covered everything.
