Good morning. Thank you very much for
joining me. So this is C4 model beyond
the basics. I have a book about the C4
model uh which is on lean pub. As a
token of my appreciation for coming
along, feel free to use this code uh to
grab a copy for free. I'll just wait
till the cameras come out. I will show
the slide again at the end.
There is a caveat though.
You need to be quick. So, this book uh
is disappearing off Lean Pub at the end
of the year because I'm pleased to say
I'm publishing it with O'Reilly. So, I
signed a contract earlier in the summer.
Uh the book's about half done and this
will be coming out in about July 26 and
I thought it's going to be a lift and
shift from Lean Pub, but it turns out
I'm actually rewriting a whole bunch of
things. Some of those things are in this
talk essentially.
So, who who's using C4 here? Quick show
of hands.
That's like 20%. Awesome. So there's a
whole bunch of you have not got to yet.
Perfect. So I'm going to do a quick
intro to C4 and then we'll get to the
beyond the basics things. So
architecture diagrams are historically
very very bad. I'm sure you've seen
examples of these in your own
organizations. And the C4 model is
really a way to bring some structure to
those traditional boxes and arrows
diagrams in a postl era. There are a set
of four abstractions that sit behind C4.
software systems, containers,
components, and code. And C4 is actually
named after the static structure
diagrams, the four levels of static
structure diagrams, which are context.
So system context, containers,
components, and code. I'm going to show
you some examples of these in a second.
But essentially what we're doing is
we're starting at the big picture and
we're doing the Google Maps pinch zoom
thing to drop down to each layer in
turn. So we're narrowing our focus,
reducing the scope. The concept here is
diagrams as maps. So, as you can tell
from my accent, I'm not from around
here. I live in Jersey in the Channel
Islands. If you open up Google Maps and
you do a search for Jersey, you're
likely going to get this picture. Now,
this is great if you want to know where
the airport is and where the main town
is and how to get from one to the other.
If you've never heard of Jersey before,
it's too much information. You've zoomed
in too quickly. How do you fix this with
Google Maps? You pinch zoom out. Zoom
out a little bit. And this is the coast
of France. This is Gernzie, our
neighboring island. We don't talk about
them.
Funny story. So the Jersey and Gernzi
are about 160 170,000 people in total.
My wife and I were in the hotel in the
lift this morning chatting to some
locals and they said, "Where are you
from?" We said Jersey. The lady in the
lift turns around and says, "Oh, I'm
from Gernzi." Amazing, huh? Come all
this way, meet someone from from
Gernzie. So yeah, if you zoom out a
little bit, Jersey Gy gets smaller, but
you get some context. Zoom out even
further and Jersey disappears entirely.
It's only 9 miles by 5, 15k by 10. On
the flip side, you can keep zooming and
zooming and zooming and eventually drop
into Google Street View, which is a
onetoone mapping with the real world
when the photos were taken. And I
essentially want to do the same thing
with software architecture diagrams. I
want different levels of zoom that allow
me to tell different stories to
different audiences. The high level
diagrams are suitable for literally
everybody. As you progress into the
layers, you get more and more technical.
[sighs]
The C4 model is notation independent.
Some of you may have seen my previous
diagrams with blue and gray boxes. You
don't have to use blue and gray boxes.
You can use any shapes, any colors. That
is worth pointing out. And I have a
number of new example diagrams I'm about
to show you very briefly. So this is an
example system context diagram. This is
from the C4 model website. This is
showing you uh an internet banking
system. That's the thing we are
documenting, the thing we are
describing. It is used by a single type
of user. In this case, it's a personal
banking customer. They are using the
internet banking system to do things
online, view their account balances and
make payments. The internet banking
system itself uses a core banking system
to get data and present it to our
customers via the web and we send emails
via Amazon web services simple email
service. So that's an example of a
system context diagram. It's showing you
the system we are describing and the
world around it in terms of users,
roles, actors, personas and other system
to system integration points. Now we can
take that internet banking system, the
blue box, pinch the zoom, drop down to
level two, and we can draw a container
diagram. A C4 container diagram
essentially shows applications and data
stores. So these are things as
developers that we build and essentially
run our system.
In this case, we have a single page app
uh JavaScript and Angular UI that is
delivered from a bunch of static
content. In this case, it's a folder of
HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The UI uses a
JavaScript boot backend. So there's a
JSON over HTTPS API endpoint or one or
more endpoints. The backend attorney
uses a MySQL database schema for storing
lots of data and an Amazon S3 bucket for
storing u pre-built PDF statements.
Some tech choices. We got some protocols
on the arrows. This is a nice at a
glance view of the how the interns of
the system work, but still at a high
level. We take the back end in this
case. We pinch the zoom. Now we can open
up uh the backend application and show
the components that sit inside it. And
it's really the same sorts of thing. Now
we're showing the highle constructs that
exist inside that application. We'll
talk more about what these are in a
second. And for completeness, we can
take a single component, open it up,
zoom in, and show code. Once you get
down to the code level, if you're using
an O language, you can just use UML.
Although C4 defines four levels of
static structure diagrams, you don't
need to use all of them. Most
organizations only use the top two.
Quick to create, don't change rapidly.
That doesn't mean there's not value in
the bottom two levels. Uh but you need
to look at things automatic generation
if you want to use them.
Naming's hard. We probably heard this uh
already today. C4 actually defines seven
diagram types. Sorry. Um there is a
dynamic diagram that allows you to show
how uh an individual feature works at
runtime. There is a sequence diagram
version.
There's a UML collaboration style
version if you like that in instead. So
this is just showing you how a
collection of C4 things interact at
runtime follow the numbered ordered
arrows. Let me do that instead. There we
go. So that tells you a story.
There is a deployment diagram that shows
the mapping between C4 containers onto
things in the infrastructure and you can
do your fancy cloud architecture
diagrams if you want to with all the
nice icons. Uh and there's a system
landscape diagram we'll see later. So
beyond the basics
containers
I see a lot of confusion about the C4
container concept and also we have that
clash of naming with Docker. I keep
making this joke that I got the name
first, which is true, by the way, but I
kind of wanted to prove it. So, there's
a post going on to the C4 model website
soon. And what I've done is I've gone
through my old slides from conference
talks and I've tried to find when the
container name popped up and it turns
out it was March 2010. So, in March
2010, I have a presentation and the word
container was used in one of the slides.
Docker came out what, three years later.
So, I got the name first. You heard it
here first. Uh so C4 containers what
what is a C4 container? It's an
application or a data store. So it's a
single page app in a browser, a mobile
app, a serverside app, a batch process.
That's what I mean by application. Data
store, it's a database schema, Amazon S3
bucket, Azure, blob storage container,
bunch of folders, etc., etc. [sighs]
So in the simplest case, a UI talking to
a database is a C4 container diagram.
Now,
technology choices are important.
I ran my my diagramming workshop a few
weeks ago and somebody crafted this
diagram
and I said, "Right, are you going to put
some tech choices on this?" And they
said, "No, because we're solution
architects and we don't want to tell
developers what to do,
right?" But I I kind of pressed them to
add some tech choices to the diagrams
because I wanted to check whether this
design was going to work. And you might
be thinking, well, yeah, of course it's
going to work. It's a UI talking to a
database. It's a very, very common,
simple pattern. So, I pressed them for
tech choices and they said, okay, we're
going to have an Angular front end
talking to a MySQL back end.
Anybody see the problem with this? It's
not going to work for a whole bunch of
interesting security reasons. So, this
is why it's really important to make
sure your C4 container diagrams
particularly includes technology
choices. So, this is not going to work.
this one here with a serverside
application will work. So by adding the
technology choices, we could already
start to evaluate and review and
critique the potential solution here.
[gasps]
If you're still struggling with the con
with the concept of containers, you can
think of it as an operating system
process boundary.
Now there's a number of specific reasons
I didn't use the term process when I
came up with the C4 set of abstractions
and and I'll explain that in a second.
So what's the implication here? If you
consider a container to be a process
then container to container interactions
are out of process
typically using a a network connection
between them. So JSON of HTTPS or maybe
gpc.
The further implication here is when you
zoom into the boundary of a container,
an application, component to component
interaction is typically in process.
And this is true of many languages. If
you're building a C app and you have a
number of C# components, component A
will talk to component B in process,
typically via
a method call or function call. That's
how most component to component
interactions work. That does not mean
that component A can't send a message
out of process and component B can
subscribe to that out of process. But
typically in most cases component to
component interaction is in process.
[gasps]
So does the process analogy work? Yeah,
if you have two applications uh two Java
applications if you look at these things
running you've got two Java virtual
machines. Those are the processes and so
therefore as I said container to
container interactions are out of
process.
like code in app one can't talk to code
in app two without going out process.
[sighs]
So why didn't I use the term process?
Well, imagine we have two Java EE web
applications. The same thing is probably
true of um ASP.NET applications. So you
have two Java E applications running on
a single Apache Tomcat web server. So
the process now the operating system
process is actually still the Java
virtual machine but there's only one of
them but we have two applications but it
turns out that application to
application communication still must
happen out of process. Why? Because
Apache Tomcat is using some very funky
clever class loading stuff and
essentially it loads both applications
into their own space and provides some
degree of isolation. Um I haven't done
net for a while but in the IIS world
when I used to do net I think the term
was app domains so it's a similar sort
of concept there's a boundary of
isolation around those applications so
you can't call functions across them so
maybe an isolation boundary is a better
term but it just sounds a bit clunky uh
so hence I used the term container
so now with this knowledge we can start
to critique some diagrams I'm not going
to do a show of hands because some of
you might think I'm tricking you here,
but if you ever see a C4 container
diagram and it says we have a service
and it's Java and MySQL, that's wrong.
Why? Because Java and MySQL cannot run
in the same process. They're two
separate things, aren't they? You have a
Java application in a JVM and a MySQL
database server running somewhere. So,
this is incorrect.
This could be correct. So, H2 is a
database written in Java. It can be run
as a standalone server so out of process
or you can actually run it in process.
If H2 is running in process essentially
the codes in your application and H2 are
running in the same JVM. So therefore
this could be correct.
So C4 containers are separately
deployable things separately deployable
applications.
But my recommendation here is that the
C4 container diagrams themselves should
not show deployment concepts.
And this piece of advice sometimes
confuses people as well.
I've seen a bunch of diagrams that look
like this. We have service A and the
container is Docker.
Docker is a deployment thing.
What's the real thing we're trying to
see here? Well, what's running inside
the Docker container? That's the C4
container that we're kind of hunting
for. So, whenever you see Docker as a
technology on a C4 container diagram,
that's typically wrong as well.
Similarly, this Amazon EC2 is a is a way
to run stuff on the cloud. That's a
deployment thing. And similarly, Amazon
Web Services Fargate. Fargate is a
containers as a service service.
So that raises the question where do you
show these concepts? And the answer is
on your deployment diagrams. So here's
one of the example diagrams from the C4
model website. And you'll see we have a
Java Spring Boot back end here. This is
the C4 container. It's the application.
The separate deployment diagram shows
how that thing runs on in this case
Amazon's infrastructure. So we have the
back end. It's running in a Java virtual
machine inside a Docker container inside
Amazon Web Services Fargate
API gateways.
I sometimes see API gateways modeled as
C4 containers and again this is
typically wrong.
What do most API gateways do?
Authentication, logging, routting, or
routing, depending on which country
you're in.
[laughter]
We got there eventually. Um, and most
times you don't need the API gateway in
your dev environment. Most API gateways
are really just in the production
environment to do uh all of these things
in the production environment only. So
therefore modeling the API gateway in a
C4 container diagram is kind of
unnecessary.
So the other way to think about the C4
container diagram is that it's showing
the subset of all of the things that
exist across all deployment environments
dev test staging prod.
If any of you have seen the example
diagrams on the C4 website, you'll
notice there's an Amazon S3 bucket on
the container diagram which is modeled
as a container and you have an Amazon
SES simple email service which is
modeled as a software system. So one
Amazon thing is a container, one Amazon
thing as a software system. Why? Here's
your answer. This is the example
container diagram.
There's SCES. So that's modeled as a
software system. And here is the S3
bucket. its modeled as a container
inside our software system boundary.
How do you think about this? What's the
huristic you use to decide whether
something is a system or a container? I
like this when you're talking about the
difference between libraries and
frameworks. You use a library and a
framework uses you. The framework calls
your code. So when you use a framework,
your code is much more tightly coupled
to the framework. You know, libraries
you can often switch out quite easily.
And the same thing is true of the
software system versus container debate.
And what you have to ask yourself is
what is the type and strength of the
dependency that we have here. Amazon SCS
is a service we're using. So we write
some code. It makes use of the Amazon
SCS API to send emails to our customers.
It's an opaque box. We can't see inside
it. We're just using it as a service. We
could switch it to something else if it
had same API. We have a dependency sure
but it's quite a weak dependency
compared to S3.
The S3 bucket although it's running on
Amazon infrastructure it's hosted by
Amazon Web Services. When we provision a
bucket that bucket is ours we have
complete control and responsibility over
what goes in that bucket. The objects
the data formats. The S3 bucket is an
integral part of our software system. We
can't do anything without it. So
therefore, it's a much tighter coupling,
a much tighter relationship. So
therefore, I've modeled it as a as a C4
container inside my software system
boundary.
So that's thing one, a long discussion
on containers.
Thing two, perspectives.
I get a lot of questions like this. How
do we model like ownership and security
and levels of technical debt and and
maybe size and complexity on top of
these architecture diagrams without
making them super cluttered?
And the answer is to use perspectives.
So there's a great book on software
architecture by Owen Woods and Nick
Rosanski. It's called software systems
architecture. And in that book they talk
about perspectives.
And all of perspective is is rather than
defining a new diagram type, a new view
type, we have additional levels or
layers of information and data on top of
these diagrams. And it's a really really
powerful concept.
So we can just do that. So here's an ex
uh an example system landscape diagram
again from the C4 model website. Imagine
we want to figure out who is the owner
of all of these different systems. So
this is a nice simple diagram. We could
start adding more information about team
names and things on this diagram, but it
would start to get cluttered quite
quickly. So what we can do is we can add
some metadata to the things in this
diagram, an ownership perspective, and
then we can toggle that on and off. So
now we're only seeing the items that
have a perspective associated with them
and you kind of have some interactive
thing in your tooling and says oh that's
owned by team C. So tooling supports
this. You've got modeling tools that
support this. You've got diagramming
tools. You can have layers on top.
There's a whole number of ways you can
do the kind of layering and perspectives
thing. Security example imagine we've
got that statement store the Amazon S3
buckets and we want to ask questions
like well how is the data secured? Is it
encrypted on the server for example?
Yeah, we just add a security perspective
and add that metadata uh next to that
object somehow. So, it's a nice way to
add additional metadata requires your
diagrams to be interactive, but it it
reduces the clutter on the diagrams.
Number three, messagedriven
architectures. This always gets people.
Uh it's very tempting to draw a diagram
like that. So, imagine you're modeling a
service-based architecture. You have a
bunch of services on the left hand side
that are producing messages and a bunch
of services on the on the right hand
side that are consuming messages. It's
very tempting to draw the message bus as
a C4 container. This is true. This is
factual. This is accurate. But the
problem here is everything looks like a
hub and spoke architecture.
So we're missing the couplings, the
dependencies between the individual
services. It's all hidden in that fanin
fan out architecture. So how do we fix
this issue?
Don't model the message bus as a C4
container. Model the individual cues and
topics as C4 containers. So now in this
particular example, we can see there is
a pointto-point coupling, a onetoone
dependency between services A and C via
a Q called X. And there's a a similar
but different uh pointto-oint coupling
between B and D via a separate Q. So I'm
modeling the Q's here as C4 containers.
And this is nice because a Q is a
bucket.
It's a data store. Some processes put
meshes into the buckets. Others pull the
meshes out of the buckets.
This doesn't tell me anything about
deployment either. So in my dev
environment on my laptop, I could have
both these cues running on a s single
rabbit MQ bus. My live environment might
be one bus for qx and one for qy because
they're super super high scale or
throughput or something. So again,
having the cues as containers gives me
the flexibility tool about deployment
separately, which I quite like.
Arrows go from left to right. If you
have a onetoone mapping between two
services via a cure or topic, you could
argue that that box in the middle
doesn't really add much. Agreed. You
have options. Just remove it. So now we
can see there is a a coupling a
dependency between the services. And
what I've done here is I've said via qx
on the arrow. This is much visually
simpler. The tradeoff here, and it's all
trade-offs, of course, is that some
people might miss that there's a queue
in between the two things. But you have
some options. Try both. See which one
you like. If I go back a second again,
arrows go from left to right. Similarly
with this one here, you could also
experiment with flipping the arrows
around and changing the text to tell a
slightly different version of
essentially the same story. So now we
can see that service A is publishing
messages
to the queue and service C is
subscribing to messages from the queue.
So we got each pointing to the queue.
Now I think this works well when you
have like I have at the bottom here,
you've got a one to many relationship.
So I think that works really well with
pub subt type architectures. So that's
how you model messagdriven architecture.
Essentially you have a bunch of options
but treat the cues and topics as
containers.
Number four, abstraction versus
organization. When C4 diagrams start to
become big and complicated, people look
to add more abstractions to reduce the
complexity and therefore create simpler
diagrams. Is that a good idea? Probably
not. So, what are my thoughts on
modeling addition uh additional levels
of abstraction? Essentially, I think a
lot of the things people want to
describe and model are actually not
abstractions in their own right. They're
just groupings of the additional
abstractions.
So, organizations, groups, or
departments.
Here's a good example. Imagine we have
this system landscape diagram from
before. We have a number of different
systems.
But where does each system sit? Is it in
internal to our organization or
external? You can't really see that from
this diagram. So what you can do is just
add a bunch of dash boundaries
representing the organizational
boundaries.
So now we can see that all of these
things here including the internal staff
see it in the context of the bank and
Amazon web services includes SCES. You
could add nested things to show smaller
groups and departments. So yeah,
entirely up to you.
Architectural layers. Imagine you have a
C4 component diagram that has a number
of controllers, some services, and some
repository components. And maybe you
think you want to draw this diagram
instead.
I've drawn many of these diagrams during
my career. Are they useful? Arguably
not. Doesn't really tell you much. All
the complexities hidden inside the the
layer boxes. But nonetheless, what if
you want to show architectural layers on
your diagrams? Again, you just take the
same approach. So here we have our
components and I've drawn a dashed
boundary around the components. Say this
is the controller layer. This is the
service layer and this is the repository
layer.
If you have particular module boundaries
or DLS or jar files that your com
components are coming from, you could do
the same thing. So here we've said that
the controllers are coming from an
app-controller.jar
file. So yeah, feel free to add
additional uh organizational groupings
on your existing C4 model diagrams.
DTO banner context. People ask me how do
you model bounded context in C4?
Hopefully you have a bounded context and
it nicely and neatly includes some C4
things. In this case, uh software
systems, but yeah, just add some dash
boundaries representing each of the
boundary contexts. I know in the real
world that banner context slice systems
in half, but that's a different problem,
I guess.
Microervices.
This always gets people too.
So, how do you model microservices?
bunch of options but very simply
microservices should either be modeled
as a software system or grouping of
containers. That's it.
I'm going to walk you through a scenario
and then we can see each of these things
in turn. So imagine we're a small
startup. We have no money and we want to
build something quickly to get some
money and deliver features to some
potential customers.
Because of sense, we're going to stick
with a monolithic architecture.
So we're going to build software system
X and it's going to
expose features A, B, and C to some type
of user. So that's our C4 system context
diagram. Nice and simple. When we pinch
to zoom onto the software system, we're
going to use a serverside rendered web
application monolithic approach,
business logic and UI for features A, B,
and C. And we're going to store
everything in a single MySQL database
schema. That's our C4 container diagram
showing a monolithic architecture.
Stage two of our company's journey.
We're now hiring more people. We're
starting to change the same parts of the
codebase and we're starting to get merge
conflicts and things are just getting a
bit awkward because we're increasing in
scale. So we want to go from monoliths
to microservices. So now I have to
answer the tricky question of well what
is a microser? I'm going to do this by
going back to the original James Lewis
Martin Fowler blog post on Martin
Fowler's website and they say this. In
short, the micros service architectural
style is an approach to developing a
single application as a suite small
services each running in its own process
and communicating with lightweight
mechanisms. [sighs and gasps]
Now, I like this, but I want to make it
more C4ish. So I'm going to change the
word application to software system. So
what I'm doing here is I'm saying well a
microservices architecture is we're
defining a single software system as a
collection of smaller services. So now
with this
we can draw some diagrams. Our context
diagram is the same. We're one big team.
We're building a single system as one
big team. It's the same diagram. Once we
pinch to zoom, now we can see we've
broken up the business logic and the
data into three separate services. One
for A, one for B, one for C. Because we
don't want to get into microrends quite
yet, we're going to stick with the
original server side rendered UI. So now
we have a collection of microservices.
There are three of them. What I've done
here is I've used color coding to denote
the pairings of the API thing and the
database schema thing. but it's not
explicit. So, how do we fix that
problem? How do we make those pairings
explicit? I already told you the answer.
Just add a add a grouping. So, here we
have a a dashed boundary. And now we can
see that the API thing and the database
schema thing are service A. Repeat for
services B and C. So, in this case, we
have three microservices. Each microser
is a group, a pair of containers.
Imagine we add feature D. Feature D is
going to be implemented by a stateless
AWS lambda written in Python. We can
just add that to the bottom of our
diagram. There we go. But the same thing
applies. ServiceD is a collection, a
group of containers, but that number is
now just one.
Now imagine we got tons of cash coming
in. We're growing really quick. We're
going start up to scale up. And this one
big team is not it's not going anywhere
fast. It's just slowing us down. So,
we're going to break into separate teams
and do the Conway's law thing. So, I'm
going to stick with team X building that
original software system called X. And
all of you lovely folks are going to
disappear onto separate teams. We're
going to carve up the git repo. You
folks here are going to be team A
looking after service A, B, C, and D.
Now, we have to draw our architecture
diagrams from our perspective only.
And here's my context diagram. So I'm
working on team X building software
system X. My context diagram now looks
like this because I have a dependency on
all of your services.
So what I've done here is I've promoted
your services to be software systems
rather than groupings of containers.
Why? Because I can't see your code
anymore. It's all completely out of my
context. I can't see your implementation
details. You can't see mine. So I'm
treating your services as opaque boxes.
When I pinch to zoom in, my container
diagram is really straightforward. It's
that it's really just the original
serverside rendered web app again
talking to all of your services as
software systems.
So that's my view on the world.
Team A's view on the world over there.
This is your context diagram. So you are
building service A and you have an
inbound dependency for my thing called
X. when we pinch the zoom on your
software system. Now we can see the pair
of the API thing and the database schema
thing. Repeat for B C for D and we're
happy. So that's my thoughts on modeling
microservices. If you own those things
then treat them as internal to your
system boundary. If you don't and you've
got like a corn thing going on, treat
them as external software systems from
your perspective.
[sighs] What about doing that? Showing
that a container in my world talks to a
container in your world. but we're two
separate teams. My advice is don't do
that because it's a form of coupling. It
shows that I know something about your
internal implementation details and vice
versa. If I finally do the serverside
render rendered web app to microrends
thing and you have this diagram in your
repos, your diagrams are now wrong. You
have to change it. So it's volatile.
It's a form of coupling. So I don't
recommend doing that.
Number six, the C4 model at scale.
So adding the additional levels of
abstraction is one of the techniques
people try to use to scale C4. Uh but I
have some other options for you. So
imagine we have a single software system
that in this case is comprised of eight
microservices.
They're all different colors. Same thing
as before. A service is an API thing and
a database thing. This diagram is
essentially showing you the entirety of
the software system boundary. They're
showing you all of the containers inside
the software system boundary. This
diagram works now, but as we add more
services, this diagram would start to
get quite complicated, especially the
arrows between things. So rather than
having one diagram showing eight
services, you could draw eight diagrams
showing one service each. And that's a
very valid approach. So here is a C4
container diagram showing the internals
of that same software system but we're
only showing service one which is that
pair things coming into service one and
things leaving service one. So the
inbound and the outbound dependencies
the afrant and the effort couplings. Uh
if you've used my structurizer tooling
that's how you do it. You say include
service one things coming in things
going out. Nice and simple. You can't do
this so easily with a tool like Vizio
because you have to copy and paste all
the boxes across all the different
diagrams and keep things up to date. So
if you take this approach, you really
need to drop into using a modeling tool.
The service 2 version is exactly the
same includes service two inbound and
outbound dependencies. Service 3, you
get the idea. So that's option one.
Craft a smaller number of diagrams
focusing on a single slice of the thing.
The trade-off here, again, it's all
trade-offs, is you lose the big picture.
You've got the detail, but you lose the
entirety of the big picture. So, option
two is to use a different visualization.
This is a screenshot of a nice
interactive D3JS force directed graph.
It all the small bubbles are C4
containers. So, this view is showing you
the same thing as that all containers
diagram, but everything's very small
now. And it's interactive. So, we can
drag things around, move things around.
We can click on something to show its
nearest neighbors.
This is really useful because many of
the times we draw architecture diagrams,
we're doing it to answer questions if
this changes, what's the impact of
change? So using a different
visualization allows you to explore that
question much more easily. And again,
you could add metadata and have tool
tips. So yeah, maybe think about
different visualizations. And here's
another one for you. So my tooling uh
doesn't export to the isograph tooling
uh which again this is a static
screenshot of a very nice kind of
interactive tool. It shows you
everything and you can click and zoom in
and show nearest neighbors and all that
sort of thing. So different
visualizations of a bigger data set
allow to uh showcase and explore your
model in different ways.
And finally number seven how do you make
this work in enterprise?
Imagine you have a bunch of teams and
they're all using C4 and they're
producing some nice diagrams.
This works well, but maybe your
enterprise architects come along and
say, "Well,
we want a big picture like we want to
see all the things talking to all the
things. We want a top- down view of our
entire organization, but all the teams
are managing their diagrams and models
in a decentralized fashion. So, how do
we make that work?"
These pictures show what the individual
teams see.
If we rearrange the boxes so they kind
of look the same. What we want to do is
we want to get that view on the right
hand side. So we want that the
aggregation of everything. So how do you
do that? Very simply you have some sort
of a system catalog. This could be in my
tooling or backstage or some other
tooling. You define all the things in
the environment. You have that as a
single dictionary, a single definition.
You ask all your teams to push their
definition to some sort of an
architecture repository so you can find
them easily. This could be just a file
system or some tooling doesn't really
matter. And then you write some code to
basically start with the system catalog
and then you aggregate all of the
relationships between all of the systems
from the teambased models
and essentially that gives you this sort
of picture down here on the right hand
side. So does this work in the real
world? Yeah, I've got many clients who
are doing this sort of thing and it's
really nice because their teams can
model things in a decentralized way,
have all their diagrams checked into
their own git repos, but the EAS are
happy because they can get a top- down
view of everything, track dependencies,
etc., etc.
A final note, I've been working with a
number of clients recently to improve
their software architecture diagramming
and I came up with this maturity model
thing. Level one is where half the
industry is. They're not doing anything
which is awkward. Uh level two is where
we have some degree of diagrams but
they're ad hoc boxes and narrows. Just
using C4 gets you to level three. So now
we have defined things in a uh in a
structured way. To get to level four you
have to switch from diagramming to
modeling. Once you switch to modeling a
whole number of different opportunities
open up to you. and to get up to level
five where you're sharing models across
organizational departments and groups
and teams and you're reverse engineering
your uh observ
observability logs and your source code
to kind of generate these models.
There's tons of really cool stuff you
can do there. So that's all I have to
say. Uh again that's the uh code if you
want to grab the book. Thank you very
much.
[applause]
