Good afternoon everyone and welcome to
Brookfield Corporation's 2025 investor
day. Thank you for joining us today.
Whether you're here in person
participating virtually as well as those
who attended Brookfield Asset
Management's presentation earlier today.
We greatly appreciate your continued
interest in Brookfield. We have an
exciting lineup for you this afternoon.
We'll begin with opening remarks from
our CEO, Bruce Flatt. Then our
president, Nick Goodman, will provide an
overview and the financial outlook for
the corporation.
Next, we'll have a presentation from
Kevin McCraine, managing partner in our
real estate group. We will then hear
from Satchin Shaw, CEO of Brookfield
Wealth Solutions. And finally, we'll
wrap up with a few closing remarks
before opening the floor to a Q&A
session. When we get to the Q&A, if
you're here in the room, microphones
will be available. We ask if that you
please wait until a mic reaches you
before asking a question so everyone can
hear it clearly. For those of you
joining virtually, you can submit your
questions directly through the text box
on your screen. Following the Q&A, we
will display a QR code. We kindly ask
you to take a moment, scan the screen,
and complete a brief survey. Your
feedback is important and helps us
improve future events.
As always, I'd like to remind you that
during the Q&A and throughout today's
discussions, we may make forward-looking
statements. These statements are
predictions about future events and
trends and are subject to risk and
uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially
from those that we discussed today. For
further details, please refer to our
filings with the security regulators in
Canada and the US and the cautionary
statements contained within our
presentation which are all available on
our brand new website.
In addition, when we speak about our
well solutions business or Brookfield
Well Solutions, we are referring to
Brookfield's investment in this business
that supported the acquisition of its
underlying operating subsidiaries. And
with that, please join me in welcoming
our CEO, Bruce Flatt, to the stage.
Good afternoon everyone. Thanks for
staying. Um
I have a little bit of time to tell you
about uh what we're doing with the
business and giving you an overview and
as you know we strive to be um the
leading uh global investment firm and uh
continue to do that. Um, I guess our
number one goal is uh build long-term
wealth for investors, clients, uh,
individuals, pension funds, sovereign
funds around the world. Um,
and, uh, for 125 years, but, uh, some of
us that are here for the last 30, 40
years, um, we've been building one of
the largest discretionary pools of
capital globally, which today on our
balance sheet is around $180 billion of
capital. There's 135 now in the uh
insurance business and almost and just
over a trillion dollars in the asset
management business and uh I'll talk
about that a little bit later. Um today
the business is in 50 countries. Um,
maybe the most importantly,
it's built to be extremely nimble. And
it sounds like at the scale that uh we
operate at, you can't be nimble, but we
try to always be as ex very nimble to uh
change and evolve our strategy over
time.
Um, but one thing we're not nimble with
is our discipline on how we invest your
money. um that has led to 19% annualized
returns for 30 years, which um always
doesn't sound like that much, but that's
a 27,000%
27,000%
return over 30 years. So, um it's that's
a pretty uh amazing uh return. What that
means is that uh if you look at these
returns, the S&P 500 did 11, we did 19.
That's 800 basis points more
uh every single year for 30 years. Uh it
wasn't every single year, but on average
it was every single year. What's more
interesting,
most investment strategies get worse as
you get bigger. Our 20-year returns are
16. Our 10-year returns are 17. Our
fiveyear returns are 22.
What it means is the business is
maturing and getting better over time.
And scale actually is assisting us get
better returns.
We've achieved that by evolving the
business and innovating within the
strategies which I'll touch on.
But the evolution
most importantly
is based on two things. One, we always
adhere to the value investing tenants
that we have within the company. And
number two, we try to drive returns as
Anooj said earlier at the BAM
presentation about operating out of our
operating capabilities.
Over time, our evolution has been, I
would say, uh, continuing,
but uh, punctuated
by some strategic things that we do
every once in a while, which um, we spun
our listed entities out in 208. We
started our wealth business in 2020. We
spun off BAM in 23 to mention three
recent things which I think were um
extremely important for the business in
the short term will be very strategic uh
in the long term. Most importantly,
as I've said to many of you, I said
earlier and I'll keep saying it, our
view is that having access to capital
wins. We've always tried to have the
best access to capital. Um that started
with institutional le investors.
Uh is leading to private wealth has
always been with banking relationships
has public market access and
increasingly the public float that we
build within the business will be
extremely important uh to us.
Innovation on the other hand drives
long-term returns for our investors. And
there's really just three things to make
it simple that we do. We try to identify
the trends on a big global basis that
are going to affect the world that that
we can participate in. We take those
package them into products for our
clients which then enables us to attract
scale capital within each sector.
Once we understand an industry, we move
fast and we deploy at scale. We're not
early, but once we understand it, we
move fast and we deploy at scale. 50% of
the assets that we operate with today
didn't exist as an asset class for
investable purposes
15 years ago.
That's an evolution.
Our
leadership position allows us to build
differentiated products.
And as you can see here, they're in all
of our different businesses. And we keep
expanding out tangentally within each of
the businesses we have to either get
other strategies or to get other um
return profiles for investors
that they're looking for.
But despite widening out and doing other
things, our investment approach has
remained consistent and is essentially
been a methodical and proven capital
allocation process.
We operate with a value investing
thesis, taking moderate risk, aligning
ourselves with our constituents, using
our operating skills to um squeeze extra
returns out of it, and probably most
importantly, the culture we have in the
organization is extremely important.
This has driven
25 years of growth. AM to a trillion
dollars. Operating income to $19
billion.
Share price from 2 to 66.
So you did that for me last year. What
about this year? Um so where are we now?
Um, we're in the midst of three things
going on with our business which are
going to foundationally change what we
do in the business in a positive. Uh, AI
is going to drive enormous things within
owners of businesses if you get it right
and we believe we can get it right.
Second, aging populations
are demanding wealth products and are
increasingly going to need those
products to service their 401ks and
other retirement systems. And third, on
a more micro level, the real estate
recovery is here and it's um it's coming
back. And I'll cover each of those. Um
on AI,
uh you've seen our slides. This is a $7
trillion opportunity. We're ideally
suited because of our power, our
adjacencies, our compute infrastructure,
our um real estate businesses to
participate in this. We have a number of
um AI factories that we're working on,
which is around a $200 billion uh
investment uh uh project over the next
while. And this is just the beginning.
And it's really just the start of what's
going on in the world on the
infrastructure side.
This is a multi-deade opportunity that
possibly is the largest business within
our company within 10 years.
Second, the retirement landscape is
undergoing a fundamental shift. Aging
populations need savings. DC plans in
the US are opening up. Once they open up
in the US, they're going to open up
globally. And there's a structural need
for wealth solutions. The shift is very
powerful. Um in past our money came from
our own balance sheet. It came from our
asset management business. Increasingly
it's going to come from individuals and
people seeking wealth.
pension plans and sovereign plans who
we've generally sought capital for is a
$22 trillion market. 401ks and wealth is
40.
We expect this third source of capital
to support a doubling of the inflows
into our b business across all the
different channels which I would say is
hundred billion from institutional
funding annually $50 billion from
annuities
$50 billion from wealth. That's about a
double double of what we've done uh
generally in past.
And on real estate,
the third change, operating fundamentals
are strong. Capital markets are back or
coming back. Interest rates are going to
start declining or have declined around
the world. Deal activity is coming back
significantly.
Where others pulled back, maybe this is
most important,
we remained active. It's allowed us to
continue to grow the business over the
last five years into many other sectors
and many other places.
Simply put, our real estate franchise is
more dominant now than it's ever been.
There are very few survivors like us in
the business. Our franchise in real
estate is stronger than ever.
The next phase of our evolution is also
here.
Thinking back, our our history has about
been about understanding change and
positioning ourselves to respond to that
change.
We're building our insurance unit to be
a fully integrated investment-led
insurance organization.
our corporation, our wealth solutions
and our asset management business and
they all all of them working together.
We've been asked by many what does
insurance
investment insurance organization mean?
And I'll I'll touch on what we mean when
we say that because I think this is
extremely important for you to
understand.
Traditional insurance underwrites
insurance and tries to make money by
underwriting insurance. It takes the
float it gets and it it gives it to
managers and tries to not lose money.
Make profit out of insurance. Don't lose
money on float equals profitability of
your insurance company. Most insurance
companies operate that way.
Investmentled insurance
turns that upside down.
We have extremely strong risk
management.
We try to achieve returns out of
investments. We try not to lose money on
insurance.
We seek float.
We don't seek scale.
And it's really saying the opposite of
what most insurance companies do.
Insurance companies are good at what
they do. They underwrite insurance.
They're trying to make profits.
Investmentled insurance is the exact
opposite of that. And that's what we're
trying to do with the business.
For us, we're led by investment
opportunities, not inflows.
Our capital gives us a competitive
advantage. Our core competencies suit
insurance liabilities. Many of the
things we do are longtailed
liabil long-term longtailed assets which
match long-term liabilities.
Our long duration investing matches that
float and our risk mitigation and
management skills
will enhance every insurance company
that we participate in. Our
model is designed to maximize capital
efficiency and enhance returns without
taking any more risk on the asset
management side. In fact, probably we
will take less risk.
Bringing it together,
investing in operating capabilities with
wealth flows
are a significant portion of the next
future of Brookfield Corporation.
What we're trying to do, and Satchin
will explain this later, is mix liquid
assets and be very liquid within our
insurance businesses
crossed with heavy allocations to real
asset investing in both debt and equity.
The combination of those two
are very attractive on a regulation and
regulator basis and a on a return basis.
and to earn 15% plus on the equity that
we have in the business.
When we spun out BAM,
we told you we would find a business
that was synergistic, that could work
with all of the other things we had,
that we would build within Brookfield
Corporation,
that would deliver high quality
earnings, that would enhance the
efficiency of the balance sheet, and
that would support our other businesses
we have in the company.
Our wealth solutions business we think
is that it has$ 26 billion of capital
today. It has 135 billion of insurance
assets. It's gone from zero to 1.7
billion of distributable earnings. and
Sassin will take you through where we're
going in the future.
With further integration of our capital
into the insurance business,
we expect to use that capital to grow
the business
to possibly $600 billion and maybe more.
It will be done prudently. It will be
done to ensure we earn attractive
returns on the capital, but it will also
drive the returns of Brookfield Asset
Management as we allocate capital to
them as a manager of our asset base.
We will build this business with the
same
discipline that we've always built our
businesses
and think that we can be successful at
doing this.
As always,
and this is paramount,
we remain focused on delivering
15% plus returns for shareholders.
I think it's easier today than it was 25
years ago
because of the scale and the um the
business that we have within Brookfield
Corporation.
So, welcome to the next chapter of
Brookfield. And I'll turn you over to
Nick Goodman who will take you through
our financial results.
Thank you.
Thanks, Bruce. And good afternoon.
So, I'm going to provide an update on
our business and I'm really going to
distill everything down that you've
heard today and will hear in the balance
of the presentations into the numbers.
Take a look back at our achievements uh
financial performance over the last 12
months and then go back and look at our
performance over the last five years and
show you how we've tracked against the
plans that we laid out for you at our
investor day in 2020. And yes, as you
may recall, we did hold an in-person
investor day in 2020. And some of you
were here, one or two. We will then look
forward. I'll provide an update on our
five-year plan focusing in on our
private holdings. And in the process of
the presentation really showcasing to
you the resilience, stability and
predictability of our earnings with the
punchline really being that the growth
profile, the outlook and the numbers
that we will present to you today is
very strong.
Over the last 5 years, we have delivered
earnings growth of 22% on an annualized
basis. over the last five years. It's
22% growth in earnings on an annualized
basis over the next five years. And
we've grown our plan value ahead of our
long-term targets of 15% plus,
delivering plan value growth of 16% on
an annualized basis.
Importantly, as Bruce has just touched
on, the foundations are in place to
continue that trajectory of growth as we
move forward.
and we're really well positioned to
continue to scale our earnings at 20%
plus throughout the plan period. Now, we
did it for the last five years and we're
positioned to deliver it again over the
next five years. And that growth comes
from two key areas. The first is us
participating in the growth that is
delivered by our core businesses. That's
the growth coming from asset management,
wealth solutions and our operating
businesses.
The second area is capital allocation.
We take the excess cash flow that we
generate in the business and we reinvest
it planting the seeds for future
earnings growth. But over the planned
period that adds another 5% to our
growth.
In total, that's 25% compound annual
growth in earnings over the next 5
years.
And this continues to be underpinned by
a conservative balance sheet that's
conservative in terms of our
capitalization and maintaining high
levels of liquidity, providing a
platform for the franchise to deliver
its evolution and its growth.
And with our business philosophy firmly
in place, the earnings growth that we're
projecting, we expect to deliver a plan
value per share growth on an annualized
basis over the next 5 years. Again,
ahead of our plans of 15% delivering
delivering 16% growth, ending up at $210
a share in five years time.
So let's start with the review of the
past.
Last year when we were investor day,
global interest rates were peaking or
had peaked and were starting to come
down and we identified tailwinds that
would come about from that that would
impact our business and the real
punchline was investors around the world
on the back of that change had started
to change their investment posture.
Investors were going from risk off to
risk on and that played out in three key
ways or we expected it to play out in
three key ways. First rates coming down
combined with increased liquidity coming
back to the capital markets we expect
would drive spreads down and lead to
lower borrowing costs globally.
Secondly, as investors look to move from
the sidelines and put their capital to
work, we expected an increase in
transaction activity and with increased
liquidity and increased desire to
invest, we expected higher valuations,
higher multiples and lower cap rates.
And we saw that play out in our
earnings. We raised over $95 billion of
capital in the business. We deployed
$135 billion into new investments. We
executed $155 billion of financings. And
importantly, and a real step change to
the last few years, we monetized over
$75 billion of assets.
And you can see that in the earnings
performance of our different businesses.
Again, we deliver 21% growth in DE
before realizations in the last 12
months. And that played through the
different parts of our core businesses.
Our asset management business increased
its fee related earnings by 18%.
I touched on the last page that we
raised over $95 billion of capital, but
importantly 75% of that came from
complimentary strategies underlining the
diversification that we've built in our
asset management franchise.
Our wealth solutions business delivered
distributable earnings of 1.7 billion.
But importantly, as we've scaled that
business, we have maintained and
sustained the return on equity in line
with our long-term targets of 15% plus.
And our operating businesses continue to
benefit from strong operating
fundamentals with our renewable power
and transition and infrastructure
businesses growing their FFO by 13%. In
our real estate business, we delivered
$5 billion of monetizations from the
balance sheet. And in our private
equity, essential service and cash
flowing businesses, we grew IBIDA by
15%.
In addition to that, we returned over
$1.5 billion of capital to our
shareholders. That was $500 million in
regular dividends. But as we saw the
disconnect between our view of planned
value and where the shares were trading
in the market, we opportunistically
repurchased over a billion dollars of
shares. adding value to each remaining
share.
Our valuation methodology for the
business remains unchanged. We apply the
relevant valuation technique or approach
to each of our businesses based on their
sector cash flow, their outlook, their
growth profile. And the value of the sum
of the parts, the total is $161 billion
today net of debt or $102 per share. And
here you can see how that's broken out
across our asset management, wealth
solutions, and our operating businesses.
That plan value has increased by 22% in
just the last 12 months. That's 28
billion of value added in just 12
months. The contribution comes from
across the business. We've had strong
performance within asset management,
participating in the growth of
Brookfield Asset Management and its
capitalization. But growth has also come
from other parts of asset management,
our wealth solutions and our operating
businesses. That plan value today and
the multiple applied against our last 12
months earnings is 27 times. But if we
project out our plan, if we project out
the earnings growth that we have for the
business over the next 5 years and apply
the valuation to an average of those
next five years earnings, the multiple
drops to 16 times underlining the growth
profile that we have in the business.
Now, five years ago at investor day,
which many of you probably were watching
on the screen, we set our targets to
grow our DE before realizations
to $4.8 billion. We targeted 19% growth
and we planned to grow our planned value
to $100 a share and we exceeded that. We
didn't grow by 19%, we grew by 22%
taking DE before realizations to $5.3
billion. and we increased our plan value
to $102 per share. This is very
important as we look back five years ago
and look at the plans we set out. We
surpassed them. And it's really
important to keep a note as we think
about the plan that we've set ourselves
for the next five years.
But better yet, as we've grown the
business, we've also diversified our
earning streams within each of our
businesses, within asset management,
within our operating businesses. they've
diversified. But as you can see from
2023 onwards, the contribution of our
wealth solutions business, that's us
taking our excess capital, seeding it
into the business to build new earnings
drivers for the franchise. And you can
start to see that come through our
earnings, which provides a great
platform as we look forward.
And we achieved the total return target
ahead of our 15% that we target the
growth in plan value of 16. The average
dividend yield of one taking the total
compound annual return based on plan
value to 17% over the last 5 years. And
as Bruce touched on, we've also
delivered a really strong return to
shareholders, 19% over the past 30 plus
years, far in excess of comparable
indices.
But we still believe despite the strong
performance of our share price over the
last 12 months, we still believe that
the share price today offers a very
attractive entry point to investors. You
think about the share price today
against last 12 month earnings, it's an
18 times DE multiple. But again, if we
do the same analysis of projecting that
out against our projected earnings for
the next 5 years, on an average basis,
that multiple drops to just 10 times. So
to say it again, we still believe
today's share price offers a very very
attractive entry point for investors.
So looking forward at the plan,
our value propositions as I touched on
at the beginning, it really is centered
around two core themes. The first is our
participation in the growth of our core
businesses. The second is the value that
we add by effectively allocating our
excess cash flow and capital.
And there are some key themes that we
think are fueling the growth of the
business. We've touched on some of them
already, but just as a reminder, the
increasing institutional and individual
allocation to alternatives is driving
growth across the franchise.
The scaling of BWS as a core part of
Brookfield and an increased integration
into the business is going to allow us
to sustain our growth for the long term.
The generational investment
opportunities for AI will be a
foundational comp component of many of
our products that we offer to clients
and where we look to deploy capital. And
then more specifically, we expect
declining interest rates, strong capital
markets, the real estate recovery and
increased transaction activity to
directly benefit our earnings over the
planned period.
And this translates into a diversified
earnings growth profile over the next
five years with many different parts of
the business all contributing to that
growth. I would just point out on this
slide that the growth in the operating
businesses looks lower but the earnings
of those operating businesses are
growing. We touched on renewable power
infrastructure grew at 13% in just the
last year. They continue to grow but
that is offset in this plan by the fact
we'll be monetizing real estate which is
in this bucket along the way.
So, let's dig into our core businesses.
Our $180 billion of perpetual capital is
spread across our three businesses:
asset management, wealth solutions, and
operating businesses. We can slice this
a different way by looking at how that's
broken out between our public and our
private holdings.
our public holdings of $82 billion.
They're covered extensively quarterly
earnings materials, analyst coverage.
They have their own investor days. So,
we're going to focus today on the
private holdings which total $98 billion
in total.
And we can break those down. They're $98
billion in total into four areas. The
first of those would be our direct
investments. This is the capital that we
have invested into funds managed by BAM
totaling $12 billion today.
The second is our carried interest. This
is our right to earn a share of the
profits generated for clients within the
funds managed by BAM. We have our wealth
solutions business and then we have our
onbalance sheet real estate.
So if I take each of those in turn and I
start with our direct investments,
the direct investments today total 12
billion. They're invested across a
series of funds. But if you look at the
target returns of these funds on an
average basis, those returns are in line
with the long-term targets that we set
for our capital, the 15% long-term
target.
And the funds are all performing in line
with their target. What this means is
our capital is compounding away at 15%
plus highly attractive investments for
our balance sheet. If we project out our
plan over the next 5 years, we expect to
surface $5 billion of capital net of new
investment from these investments over
the next 5 years. And there's two
combinations there. Obviously, it's for
monetizations of assets and return of
capital. And the second is as we move
through the plan period, we expect our
share of the investments into these
funds to actually reduce over time. As
Satchin scales BWS and in it increases
its allocation to equity investments, we
expect to share more of these fund
investments with BWS moving forward. So
again, $12 billion invested today and we
expect to surface $5 billion of capital
on a net basis over the next five years.
Now turning to carried interest and
Hadley touched on this earlier but I I'm
going to dig into it a bit more detail
and do a bit of a refresher but really
carry continues to be a material
component of our value proposition and
we believe it is still underestimated.
We are in our carry from two sources.
The first of these we call our legacy
funds. These are the funds that were
raised before the separate listing of
Brookfield Asset Management. I.e. funds
that were raised before the end of 2022.
For those funds, we earn 100% of the
carried interest, 100%. But we also
incur 100% of the costs. So, this is a
legacy. This is a cash flow stream from
funds raised before 2023 that will run
off to zero over time. And in that time,
we will earn a combined margin of 65%.
The second stream is what we call the
royalty. This is against funds raised
from the start of 2023 onwards where we
have a perpetual right to earn 33% of
the carry and we incur zero costs. This
is effectively a perpetual royalty at a
100% margin.
Now how that carry makes its way into
income is also worth refreshing. We
follow a European model for the
waterfall as how it comes into income.
That means we realize carry on a fund by
fund basis which is different to an
American waterfall which realizes carry
on an investment byinvestment basis. We
follow the life cycle set out on the
page. First we invest the capital of a
fund. We then sell assets and return all
of that capital to our clients. We work
our way through the preferred return
across the entire fund. And once that
preferred return has been delivered, we
start to realize carry on every
incremental dollar.
Now over the life of a fund, the carry
you realize under a European and
American waterfall is exactly the same.
But under our approach, that recognition
is deferred to later in the life of the
fund.
This approach
ensures strong alignment of interest
with our clients. We do not realize any
carry until the risk of clawback is very
remote. It derisks future carry
recognition. And if you think about how
you work through that waterfall, it also
dramatically increases your line of
sight to carry as you work through the
process.
And we believe that our carried interest
is now very much at an inflection point.
the scale, diversification and number of
the funds that we have right now is
increasing dramatically the carry
potential to Brookfield Corporation.
Second, transaction activity, as you've
seen in our results and recent
achievements, has dramatically
increased.
That means we're returning more capital
to our clients, which is going to result
in larger, more stable, and consistent
stream of carried interest coming in
cash and into income for the
corporation.
To put that into numbers, over the next
10 years, we expect the net realized
carried interest to Brookfield
Corporation to be $25 billion. It was
just $4 billion for the last 10 years.
we expect to be $2 billion in the next
10 years. If we narrow that time frame
down even more to just the next three
years, it's $6 billion of net realized
carried interest that we expect to
realize in cash and into income over
that period. But to think about the line
of sight we have to that six billion,
twothirds of the carry, twothirds of the
six billion will come from seven funds,
just seven funds that have a proven
track record and on aggregate have
already returned 90% of their capital.
So it's that increased line of sight
that's giving us the confidence in our
ability to recognize this carry into
income over the plan period.
And as I mentioned, the carry potential
of the organization is increasing
significantly. If you think about the
plans that were laid out by Connor and
Hadley in their presentation, carry
eligible capital is scaling to $575
billion over the next five years. As we
execute our plans, buy for value and
create value in our investments. Annual
generated carried interest is scaling to
7 billion 5 years from now. and realized
carried interest is increasing up to $6
billion on a gross basis. Now, if you
look at the plan five years from now,
you can see the gap between the gross
and the net is widening out. What that
is in practice is those legacy funds
running off and the royalty funds
starting to be the more meaningful
contributor to carried interest for the
corporation in the future, but still
generating meaningful amounts of cash to
the corporation as we move forward.
Now, we value this carried interest
today at $34 billion. The valuation
approach we have here is consistent with
how we've shown it in the past. It's
taking the target carried interest net,
which is the carry compounding for us
every day. The returns that we have
against the carry eligible capital is
$2.7 billion of annual net target carry
today at a 10 times multiple is a plan
value of 27 billion. If we add on the
accumulated unrealized carry, that is
the amount that if we sold everything
today at the current marks is what we
would realize into income. Add that to
the 27 and we have a value of $34
billion. Now, we've tried to come at
this a slightly different way to
validate uh the $34 billion. We've also
run a DCF and we've broken the DCF into
three lines. We've done an MP MPV of the
legacy funds, running out the cash flow
that we expect to receive from those
funds that are running off and
discounted it back to today. We've done
an MPV of the royalty cash flow stream,
running out the royalty over the next 10
years and discounting it back. And
lastly, we've applied a franchise value
to the royalty stream at the end of the
10-year period and discounted it back
today to prove out that the $ 34 billion
at an 8.5% discount rate. and we run a
small sensitivity.
The punchline I would really have on
carry is it's very meaningful to our
value proposition. It will generate
significant cash and income for the
business for the next 5 years and as we
move forward and it's very valuable to
the corporation.
If I pull all that together and look at
the overall growth profile that we have
from the asset management business
distributable earnings from BAM, that is
just our share of the growth of
Brookfield Asset Management, 18% Kagger.
Distributable earnings from our direct
investments, they're growing, but our
capital at risk is coming down as we
reduce our investment. And then the
benefit and the realization of carried
interest into income culminates in a 20%
compound annual growth rate from our
asset management business over the next
five years.
Now I'm going to touch quickly on real
estate and wealth solutions just to tie
it into the plan but Kevin and Satchin
will be coming up to provide much more
detail on those businesses. Bruce
touched on it within real estate. We are
very well positioned right now to
capitalize on the global real estate
recovery and that recovery is very much
underway benefiting from declining
interest rates, stronger capital markets
and increased transaction activity.
Fundamentally and importantly, the
operating metrics of real estate are
also improving significantly. We see
this around the globe. supply demand
fundamentals are firmly in favor of
existing assets and with the the quality
of the portfolio that we have, the deep
operating capabilities that we have, we
feel we're really well positioned to
deliver meaningful growth from our real
estate business. So what do we have to
do over the next 5 years? We just have
to execute, right? We have we've laid
all the foundations and as the markets
improve, as the liquidity gets there, we
need to refinance and as transaction
activity picks up. If we have assets
that we want to monetize, we have to
monetize and we have to execute.
Now, these tailwinds are going to play
out in two key ways for the business,
stating the obvious. They're going to
drive NOI and FFO growth, and they're
going to facilitate the sale of assets.
And if we are successful in executing
these plans, we have the ability and the
potential to generate up to $ 24 billion
of cash on a gross basis as we execute
the plan. In our real estate
presentation from Kevin, you'll see the
breakdown of the allocation of that
cash. In all likelihood, with that cash
that comes in, some of that will be
reinvested back into the business to pay
off debt, but only to pay off debt in
line with the reduction of the asset
base if we're selling. And if we execute
that and play it through, the plan value
five years from now will be $15 billion,
generating $640 million of earnings.
Again, the real estate recovery is
underway and it's poised to deliver
significant cash flow to our business.
The wealth solutions business is scaling
significantly and it's scaling as a
sustainable investment business. We've
been focused since its inception on
executing our growth plans. We've built
leading origination platforms in the US,
in Canada, in the UK now and focused on
expanding further into Asia. As we've
done this, we have maintained our
discipline. This is a growth. This is a
business whose growth has been led by
the investment opportunity set that we
see, not by inflows. And in doing that,
we've been able to sustain our 15% plus
target returns on equity. And
importantly importantly, we've been
scaling without sacrificing the risk
profile of overall Brookfield. If we can
execute our plan for the business, we
will scale insurance assets to $350
billion at the end of the plan period,
more than doubling our earnings.
And we believe that building the
business in the way that we're doing it,
building an investment insurance company
will strengthen the overall growth
profile of Brookfield for the long term.
It drives long-term alignment and it
will drive long-term value creation. How
that will play out in practice is we
expect to see deeper integration and
utilization of the Brookfield balance
sheet to help scale the wealth solutions
business. We expect that growth to have
significant benefits for the Brookfield
ecosystem. As BWS grows, it's going to
offer more and more attractive
opportunities for the corporation to
invest capital at attractive returns.
It's going to provide growth for
Brookfield Asset Management. And at the
same time, the wealth solutions business
benefits from the deep investing and
operating capabilities that BAM has to
offer. And it benefits from the capital
that the corporation can provide it to
achieve that growth. And importantly,
with a business that's funded by our own
balance sheet, with our own capital,
where we're focused on downside
protection, and where we have proven
track record of returns, we create a
very strong alignment of interest with
the policyh holders. And as I said, we
believe all of this can be achieved
without changing the risk profile of our
business.
As I said, we believe it can more than
double the earnings of the business over
the next 5 years, taking earnings to 5
a.5 billion. We provided a range of
valuation multiple five years from now.
We use 15 times today given the growth
profile that we have. We used 12 last
year but we actually believe now that we
can sustain this growth for the long
term. So we're showing 12 to 15 in our
plans. We're being more conservative and
just adopting the 12. But importantly
again you can see that there's
tremendous growth ahead of this
business.
The second key component of our value
proposition is our capital allocation.
And we have followed a disciplined
centralized framework to capital
allocation. And this is a an approach
that has been methodically developed and
built and followed over many years. Our
businesses every day are executing their
plans. We own highly cash generative
businesses. They're generating cash
every day. They are focused on their
singular singular sector, singular
industry. Our approach in Brookfield has
always been to take that cash flow and
move it up the chain to places where we
have a broader perspective on capital
allocation where we can move the capital
to where we see the best opportunity for
deployment and the best returns at any
point in time. And it's that centralized
approach to capital allocation and it's
that flexibility that we believe is one
of our greatest strengths.
The focus areas once we have moved the
cash up to the corporation and where we
have that broader lens, we're focused on
a four key areas for capital allocation.
The first of those is to support the
growth and to invest alongside our core
businesses.
The second is to invest in strategic
transactions. If you think back to last
five years, the acquisition or the
investment in Oakree and the scaling of
BWS would be transformative investments
that we've done. But we also invest make
smaller investments. Investing into
smaller businesses where we think having
risk or exposure will give us learnings
that will be for the betterment of the
overall franchise. And we continue to
allocate small amounts of capital to
these areas.
We retain ample liquidity to defend
against downside risk. If you think
about just the last five years and the
cycles that we've been through in the
capital markets, retaining ample levels
of liquidity ensures that at no point in
a cycle are we ever forced to do
anything that is value destructive at
the worst point in time. After we've
covered off those bases, we are left
with capital to return to shareholders.
And as you know, we look to do that
opportunistically, predominantly through
buybacks.
Over the past five years, we have
reinvested $ 31 billion of capital
across our businesses. And I want to
double click on a couple of areas just
to showcase the value that's added to
the franchise.
We've invested $12 billion of our
capital to scale BWS.
Investing $12 billion to acquire
companies at discounts to book value
where we've realized expense synergies.
We've grown the annuity base. We've
invested the float at much higher
returns. And in doing so, we've turned
that12 billion into a business that we
believe should be valued at $26 billion
today. But importantly, against that 12
billion of capital, we're now generating
$300 million today of fees to BAM, which
will scale significantly over the next 5
years. A net of those fees, we're
generating $1.7 billion of annual cash
flow for the business, which again is
going to scale over the next five years.
So again, retaining that capital and
reinvesting it back into the business
has added significant cash flow and
value to shareholders.
Secondly, over just the past two years,
we have re repurchased $2 billion of our
own shares in the open market as we've
seen the disconnect between value and
price. We've repurchased shares at an
average price of $44 a share, adding $2
a share of value to each remaining
shareholder share, sorry.
Now looking forward over the plan period
we expect to generate 535 53 billion
dollars of fee cash flow over the next
five years.
We've shown an illustrative allocation
of that cashier. Today we paying the
dividends. We have assumed the retention
of earnings within Well Solutions to
support their growth. That is assumed
but it's not committed and it will only
be committed if the business can sustain
its returns on equity. And even doing
that, we would still have $25 billion of
free cash flow available to either be
reinvested or returned to shareholders.
So, bringing it all together and
providing the update to the 5-year plan,
we are set up to deliver a 17% growth in
our annualized DE before carried
interest and before the impact of
reinvestment over the next 5 years. That
grows to 25% when you factor in the
impact of realized carried interest and
capital allocation. And you can see that
that growth comes from a diversified
earning stream across the franchise.
In graphs, that takes our DE before
realizations and capital allocation to
$6.90
five years from now and total DE to
$10.40
at the end of the plan period.
And the plan value is actually growing
in line with what we've delivered in the
last five years. A 16% compound annual
growth rate to $210
a share. And we believe with the
foundations that we have in place with
the business today, we are really only
just getting started.
So the key takeaways I want you to have
today from the presentation and
everything you're going to hear from us
today is that we are really well set up
today to continue the trajectory of our
earnings. Again, we grew at 20% plus
over the last five years, and we expect
to repeat that in the next five years.
This continues to be underpinned by our
conservative capitalization and high
levels of liquidity.
Carried interest is at an inflection
point and we expect it to be a
meaningful contributor in the next 5
years. BWS as an investment insurance
company is positioned to enhance our
capital efficiency and ensure that we
can sustain the long-term growth
trajectory of the business. And in
conclusion, we're better positioned
today than we've ever been to deliver
15% plus returns to our shareholders.
So I would ask that you stay tuned as we
move forward and I'll now hand over to
Kevin to walk you through the real
estate business.
[Applause]
Thank you, Nick. My name is Kevin
McCraine and I'm a managing partner in
Brookfield's real estate group.
Today,
um I'm going to focus on and talk to you
about why Brookfield's real estate
business is poised to take advantage of
the clear real estate recovery that is
underway. So first the capital markets
have returned beginning to fuel buyers
who have been relatively inactive as
compared to past cycles and second the
operating fundamentals are strong across
the industry including the office and
retail sectors which will be a focus of
today's discussion.
This is the foundation on why our
portfolio of premier real estate assets
is well positioned to deliver strong
earnings growth during the plan period.
We anticipate generating $ 24 billion of
capital through transactions during the
plan period.
But taking a step back and looking at
our broader real estate business, our
broader real estate business is
comprised of two capital pools. our
private fund investments and our balance
sheet investments. Today, I'll focus on
and take a deeper dive into our balance
sheet assets.
So, over the past year, our balance
sheet assets have performed extremely
well. We've signed 15 million square
feet in leases across our office and
retail businesses at rents 11% higher
than expiring rents. We grew our NOI and
monetized $5 billion of our balance
sheet assets. The leasing that we've
done over the last 12 to 24 months will
begin to show up in our NOI growth over
the next 12 to 24 months as those
tenants begin to take over space and
begin to pay rents. We've also completed
16 billion in financings across both our
office and retail businesses. 8 billion
from retail and five billion from
office.
So, we've historically segmented our
balance sheet assets into two groups.
Our core assets and our transitional and
development assets. Last year, we put a
spotlight on our core portfolio.
We did this because these are our
highest value assets with the highest
growth. These are the assets that we
believe we can continue to invest in
over time and over the long term.
But our operating teams have continued
to work on our transitional and
development assets to grow our NOIs and
our value.
We believe we should now segment this
our transitional and development
portfolio in order to give you a more
granular understanding uh on the balance
of our assets.
So this is what you've seen before. our
core business, which is 35 irreplaceable
assets that are located in key global
markets, and our transitional and
development assets, which are 151 assets
that have value added strategies tied to
leasing and development that we plan to
monetize over a defined period of time.
Going forward, our portfolio is going to
be segmented into three groups. our
super core assets which will comprise 34
of our most irreplaceable assets, our
premier properties located in key global
markets. These assets are our
multifaceted, our most complex assets
that we anticipate holding forever and
continuing to invest in over time to
create value. Our transitional and
development assets will become our core
plus and value ad portfolios. Core Plus
will be a collection of 57 assets
largely office and retail assets with
growing NOIs that we intend to monetize
over time. The the key differentiating
factor between core plus and super core
is not quality of our assets. The the
key differentiating factor is our core
plus assets have defined hold periods
and either business plans that we we
intend to complete or have been
completed.
Our value ad assets will comprise a
portfolio of 95 assets primarily located
in secondary markets that we intend to
reposition to enhance our NOIs and
ultimately monetize over time.
As you can see, the overwhelming
majority of our invested equity sits in
our supercore and core plus portfolios.
Our super core accounting for 60% of our
invested capital and our core plus
portfolio accounting for 25%.
Now while we spent last year
highlighting our super core portfolio,
it's worth worth recapping here. This
portfolio of 34 properties, 90% of the
value sits in our US and international
office assets and our retail portfolio.
They have an asset level LTV of 47%
95% occupancy and account for 19 billion
of our invested equity.
10 of these assets are trophy office
assets located in key gateway cities New
York, London, Toronto, and Dubai. In New
York, it includes Brookfield Place and
Manhattan West, flagship office campuses
that have 93 and 94% occupancy,
respectively. in London. It includes 100
Bishop's Gate, a 1 million square foot
office tower that's 100% leased and has
14 years of Walt. It also includes the
Canary Wararf estate and Brookfield
Place uh Toronto. These assets have 94%
occupancy, a 10-year Walt and account
for over eight billion dollars of
invested capital. Our Supercore
portfolio also includes 18 of the best
shopping centers around the world. It
includes 735th Avenue, also known as the
Crown Building, which is located at 57th
Street and Fifth Avenue, probably the
best retail corner in the world. It also
includes Tyson's Galleria, a pure luxury
shopping uh destination outside
Washington DC, Shops at Merrick Park in
Coral Gables, Miami, Fashion Show on the
Las Vegas strip, and Shops at Merrick
Park, a luxury shopping destination in
San Antonio.
Together, these assets generate almost
$1,200 per square foot in sales and
account for almost 9 billion of equity
value.
And finally, our super core portfolio
includes six residential and mixeduse
assets. It includes the Eugene apartment
building located in New York City and
the Pendry Manhattan West. These assets
together have almost $2 billion of
equity value and an occupancy of 94 to
96%.
But today we want to focus on our core
plus portfolio. This portfolio in in
almost any other business would be
considered super core.
So our core plus portfolio is 57 assets
account for 99% of our 8 billion of
equity value. Our our office equity
value is almost equally split between
our North American office properties in
New York, Toronto and Calgary and our
international portfolio in London, Tokyo
and Perth. These assets maintain a 44%
loan to value and have 94% occupancy.
But when put side by side with our super
core portfolio, the performance metrics
are almost identical. As I mentioned,
the the key differentiating factor
between these two portfolios is not
quality. Our super core portfolio are
just more complicated assets we intend
to hold forever and continue to invest
in over time uh to continue to create
value. And our core plus portfolio are a
collection of fantastic assets that we
intend to hold for defined periods
before monetizing and realizing on our
business plans.
So looking at our core plus portfolio
which is a portfolio of of 26 office
buildings located in key global markets
such as New York, London, Tokyo,
Calgary, and Perth. These assets
together have a 91% occupancy and are
some of the best located assets in their
markets. You're going to hear from some
of our office regional leaders in a
little bit. Um and what they'll describe
is significant upside in these assets
given the growing demand uh for office
space in their markets as well as the
rising rental rates. These assets have
eight years of Walt and account for
almost $3 billion of our equity. Our
core plus portfolio also includes 27
retail centers that generate a
tremendous amount of sales and are
located in growing markets such as
Durham, North Carolina, Atlanta,
Georgia, Houston, Texas, Seattle, and
Salt Lake City. These assets generate
$800 per square foot in sales. But the
growing demographic profile of these
markets will allow us to leverage our
best-in-class operating team to continue
to curate these assets to bring in new
tenants that will increase our sales and
our NOIs. Together, these assets have
over $5 billion of equity.
We're going to spotlight some of our uh
core plus office and retail assets when
we get to our case studies, but for now,
we'll turn to the office market.
So, you've been hearing from us over the
last number of years about return to
office trends. You've undoubtedly read
the numerous news articles on the topic
and I assume all of you are back in the
office yourselves. But this slide really
tells a story of what's happened over
the last two years. So, two years ago
only 5% of companies had a fully inoff
work requirement and the average work
requirement amongst all companies was
just over two and a half days per week.
Today over half the companies have a
fully inoff work requirement and all
comp all company average work
requirement is almost four days per
week. So what happens when everybody
goes back to work?
The demand for office space is soaring
because companies vastly underestimated
the amount of space they were going to
need coming out of the pandemic.
So everybody's back at work and demand
is soaring, but there is virtually no
new office supply as office development
um was essentially paused coming out of
the pandemic and existing supply is
being converted to other uses.
So what happens when everybody goes back
to work? Demand is soaring for space and
there is no new supply coming online.
there becomes a significant premium for
new office space.
The the premium for new office space is
averaging 60% globally. In markets like
New York and London, it's over 100% and
almost 80% respectively. We are signing
leases at our assets in these markets at
over $250 a foot and over 150 pounds per
foot. This increase in rental v is is
going to drive the entire market in the
near term as tenants can't find new
space will ultimately be looking to
other class A product to lease.
This is why our portfolio our office
portfol global office portfolio is well
positioned to take advantage of the
strengthening fundamentals across the
sector. So now we want you to hear from
a few of our regional leaders about what
they're seeing in their markets and
spotlighting a few of the assets in
their regions.
It's important to recognize that the
office is is still a hugely important
part of business's approach. When I
think about the office market in Perth,
I would describe it as resilient. Demand
remains the strongest for buildings and
workplaces that offer a premium office
environment.
Brookville Place, Perth is one of the
most significant commercial precincts in
Australia. There are few that can match
for its location, its proximity to the
public transport, its connection to
community, its operational performance,
and overall tenant satisfaction. We can
see the development in late 2000,
transforming two vacant blocks of land
and several heritage buildings into a
world-class business hub. The office
tower was 100% pre-leased at practical
completion. In the past 12 months, we've
renewed a number of major tenants with
occupancy today sitting at around 94%
with a weighted average lease expiry of
8 years.
>> Demand in the office market in Toronto
is extremely strong and approaching
pre-COVID occupancy. Brookfield's AAA
product is currently 98% leased. Tenants
today are looking to expand the
footprint as they bring more and more
people back to the office.
Over the past four quarters, our busiest
building has been First Canadian Place.
This is the tallest commercial building
in the country with powerful street
presence at the center of the financial
core. The location of this asset has
driven 400,000 ft of leasing over the
last four quarters. Occupancy has
increased from 90 to 95% with 3% of that
gain done in Q2 2025.
London is a great city. People want to
live and work here and global businesses
are attracted by its stability, access
to talent, excellent infrastructure and
connectivity. Our London portfolio is
performing incredibly well. We're 98%
le. Last year, we saw 75% of our
transactions were for more space. With
strong demand and limited supply
dynamic, we witnessed 10% year-on-year
rental growth for the best office
properties.
One Leen Hall sits at the center of the
city of London. It's a 35story tower,
striking architecture with panoramic
views. We acquired the existing building
in 2013 with a vision to replace the
existing sevenstory building with a
tower that would sit comfortably amongst
the best towers in the city cluster.
Laam and Watkins were a long-standing
tenant of ours. They were experiencing
rapid expansion and looking for a new
best-in-class office. Laam and Watkins
have now committed to 290,000 square ft
across 21 floors. Occupiers are still
preferring new highquality sustainable
workspace in amenity rich locations. Our
portfolio in London is positioned well
for that demand.
So this is why our office business is
poised to deliver strong earnings growth
during the plan period.
So turning to retail,
all retail real estate is driven by the
consumer. Consumer
consumer spending drives sales. Sales in
turn drive rents. Consistent and
sustained uh sales growth will provide
for consistent and sustained NOI growth.
As you can see, since 2019,
there has been consistent and sustained
retail sales growth in the United
States.
And as of July, retail sales are over
140% of 2019 levels. But this tracks
what has happened in the US
historically. Retail sales in the US
grow by 3 to 4% annually. People like to
go out, people like to shop, people like
to eat, and people like to be
entertained. We do not anticipate this
changing. We anticipate consumer
spending to be consistent and sustained
go forward which will lead to consistent
and sustained sales growth and
consistent and sustained uh NOI growth
throughout our portfolio.
There is virtually no retail
construction happening in the United
States right now. Since 2015, retail
construction has virtually ground to a
halt with all new construction really
focused on convenience type uh retail
and not shopping destinations.
This directly impacts retailers who are
starved for more space.
Retailers make more money specifically
through their gross margins selling
through stores than through any other
distribution channel, including
digitally.
Store growth is a retailer's single best
avenue to grow their revenue and their
ebidas.
This is why our portfolio is well
positioned. We own and operate some of
the most productive and iconic
properties around the world.
Now taking a look at our Super Core and
Core Plus retail centers side by side
and you'll see they both maintain high
90s occupancy and both have significant
sales per foot. But the true uniqueness
of our business is our best-in-class
operating team that is capable of
curating assets at the local market.
We have one of the only operating teams
capable of curating assets to meet local
market needs on a national scale. Not
every tenant belongs in every asset in
every market we're in. The the diverse
demographics of the United States
require a team capable of determining uh
which tenant belongs in which space in
in which asset in which market. This
provides for repeat customers driving
sales which will ultimately drive our
rents and NOIs.
So I'm going to turn to a couple of u
case studies on our core plus retail
portfolio and starting with Alderwood
Mall located in Lynwood me Lynwood
Washington. This is a suburb north of of
Seattle that's very affluent and has uh
an average household income of over
$118,000 a year. This asset is 99%
occupied and and has seen its NOI growth
grow by 50% since 2021.
We just successfully re refinanced our
$290 million mortgage loan on this asset
at a 5.9% interest rate. to to just
double click on that for a second. 12
months ago that interest rate would have
probably been around 6 and a.5%. So the
capital markets are seeing that quality
retail assets like this are are um have
very much lower risk and are allowing
for tighter interest rates.
So at Alderwood Mall, we've also
recently completed uh development of an
old Sears box. We redeveloped it into
76,000 ft of retail and 328 market rate
apartments. The apartments are 96%
leased. The retail is 100% leased. The
retail generates 4 million of additional
NOI at the property. Um, and we've
recently agreed to sell the apartments
at a 4.7% cap rate.
Returning to Fashion Place Mall located
in the suburbs of Salt Lake City.
This asset is primed for near and
medium-term growth alongside Salt Lake's
8 and a half% projected growth rate over
the next five years. Fashion Place uh is
100% leased and generates almost $1,000
per square foot in sales. But this asset
is a perfect example of how our
operating team uh curated an asset
alongside a growing and dynamic market.
They undertook a strategy to replace
uh uh underperforming brands with
firsttomarket brands looking to build
market share. They brought in uh Zara,
Aritzia, and Travis Matthew. And we've
seen our sales increase by over 20% or
uh since 2021. And we have more tenants
that have just opened and are opening
including Viori, Coach, TAG, and Seikko.
We've also successfully just refinanced
a 200 million $290 million mortgage on
Fashion Place at 5.4% interest rate.
Shops at Brave is a pure luxury shopping
destination located in Belleview,
Washington. This asset has seen
tremendous sales growth over the last
number of years with sales per square
foot growing by over 70% since 2019 to
almost $2,000 a foot.
NOI has tracked this increase by growing
at all over 80% over that same period.
We've signed or done renewal leases with
tenants such as Hermes and Rolex and we
recently did an expansion with
Monontlair.
We also just brought in a Michelin
recognized chef to open up a new
restaurant to round out uh the customer
offerings at the asset.
And finally, Streets at South Point
located in Durham, North Carolina. This
is a flagship core plus asset located in
a a 1.3 million person trade area that
has an average household income of
134,000 a year. This is an asset we've
continued to invest in bringing in
firsttomarket brands such as Aloe,
Viori, and Aritzia.
And that has seen our sales increase by
over $70 million since 2021. And more
concepts are on their way. Dick Sporting
Goods is taking over an old Sears box
and putting in their house of sport
concept which is 150,000 ft and includes
sports related experiences for their
customers. We've also successfully
entitled excess land at this asset for
1300 market rate units providing
additional upside to our NOI.
Streets is 96% leased and generates over
$350 million a year in sales. Given the
growing demographic profile of of Durham
alongside our curation and infill
development strategy, we anticipate
significant near and medium-term growth
uh to our NOI at this asset.
So bringing it all together
over the planned period, we intend to
continue actively leasing our office
assets at higher rents to grow our NOIs
and continuing our curation and infill
development strategies at our retail
assets to drive sales and ultimately our
NOIs. We intend to monetize our core
plus and value ad assets and sell
partial stakes in our super core assets.
This should generate substantial cash
over the plan period. The, as you can
see, the 24
uh the 24 billion in dispositions was
was shown by Nick earlier today ties
right into here. And for purposes of
this plan, we we anticipated a $10
billion reinvestment in the portfolio.
So, if we're successful, we should
generate $24 billion of capital from
asset sales and provide three billion in
regular dividends, all while generating
a 4% same store NOI growth throughout
the portfolio. Thank you. And I'll turn
it over to Satchin to discuss Wealth
Solutions.
[Applause]
All right, last presentation of the day.
Thank you for hanging in there.
I'm going to spend a little bit of time
talking about Brookfield Wealth
Solutions and and what we've been
building.
Uh we set out five years ago to build uh
at the time what we thought could be a
scaled global uh wealth solutions
provider. And I'd say where we are
today, we our conviction is only
stronger. We think we can build a
business that can compound capital for
many decades to come and in many ways is
almost the perfect match to the things
we do inside of Brookfield.
Just to remind you, there's really two
drivers in this business that give us a
strong runway of growth going into the
future.
one is underpinned by what we've done
for decades investing into the global
economy at Brookfield uh where we invest
in areas that just have uh tremendous
scale potential and two it was touched
on by Bruce Nick and others uh this
aging population phenomenon that's
happening in the western world uh and
our ability to offer income oriented
products
just as a reminder, we've spent the last
25 years building out an investment
franchise at Brookfield,
focused in areas that have a multi-deade
opportunity ahead of them and require
trillions of dollars and where we have a
level of expertise that is unparalleled.
Real estate, infrastructure, data,
renewable power, nuclear energy. And
you've heard people talk today about all
the capabilities we have.
And in often when we talk about those
capabilities and the operational
capabilities that underpin them, one of
the great benefits of that is that it
allows us to dial the risk down in those
investments. And risk mitigation,
cash flow projections,
and duration are all things that are
really important in an insurance balance
sheet.
At the same time,
we are in the midst and in the very
earliest stages of what I just touched
on, a demographic shift that will take
hold in the western world where people
will live longer than they ever have and
there's a declining birth rate and
therefore the age of the population base
of the western world is getting older.
I'm going to just give you some stats
here. If you go back a hundred years,
it's not on this page, but if you go
back a hundred years in the United
States, one in 20 people were over the
age of 65. Very young population,
industrious nation, growth.
Today, it's one in six
and by 2050, it's one in four. So, one
in four people will be over the age of
65. And if you think about what that
means for individuals needs for
retirement income or income later in
life and what it means for social
security and social welfare programs,
it's going to put a tremendous strain on
fiscal balance sheets.
That phenomenon is not just a US
phenomenon. It's a western world
phenomenon. Europe, Japan, the UK,
Canada, all western markets are facing
the exact same dynamic as family sizes
have come down and as people start to
live longer.
And at the same time, if you go back the
last 50 years when almost everyone had a
defined benefit pension plan if you were
in the workforce, today it's almost no
one. And so you have less protection,
less guaranteed income, and you have a
larger cohort of people who actually
need the things that those plans were
designed to provide.
And if you sum it up from a math
perspective, it means that in today's
dollars, you have a 7 trillion
retirement deficit.
And with that backdrop
and the combination of very low interest
rates, we set out five years ago to
build out a business that we thought
could take the things we're really good
at, long duration assets in industries
that were growing that generate cash
flow, and if we do a good job, we could
provide income streams to the exact
demographic that's going to need it for
many decades into the future.
And when we started out, we thought,
okay, we'll do it as a reinsurer. We'll
back reserves from or liabilities from
other insurance companies. We very
quickly pivoted and realized the great
opportunity in this space was to be able
to have your own distribution, to be
able to write your own policies, to have
networks of advisers and agents and
partners that could distribute your
product throughout the United States.
and it led us down a path of making a
series of acquisitions. By 2022, we had
what we thought was the beginnings of a
nice little business, 45 billion of
assets, very diversified across
annuities, life, reinsurance, PNC, uh,
and pensions.
But we were also in the midst of a once-
in a generation inflationary backdrop.
And the headlines
here demonstrate, you know, really since
the early 80s, we had not seen that kind
of inflation. The reason this is
relevant is we've talked a lot today
about what is investor-led
or investment insurance really mean. It
means that as an organization, we are
not passengers or passive participants
on the investment side. We're very
active.
And if you take the businesses that we
acquired at that point in time, we took
a investment mindset to them. We sold
off virtually every longduration asset
inside the balance sheets of the
companies we acquired. We shortened the
asset book down to four years. We stayed
very liquid. We kept our liabilities
long because they were written at low
rates that were very attractive.
We could not have predicted that rates
would have gone up as fast as they did
or even as high as they did. But odds
were they were going to increase
and the government and the Fed in
particular was telling us they were
going to increase. They were saying we
have to increase rates. They went up
very quickly. We captured tremendous
amount of value. That's an investment
approach to running an insurance
business. And capturing all that value
allowed us to build a capital base. gave
us the confidence that we could then
continue to grow and look for
acquisitions and you can see it in the
results. We'll deliver 1.7 billion of
earnings this year from zero five years
ago. And a lot of that is the benefit
that we picked up in those early
periods.
Along the way, by the end of last year,
we'd made three sizable acquisitions.
We' done a number of small reinsurance
deals.
And maybe the most important thing if
you go through this is we acquired every
business for value. Acquiring below book
value in most cases. If you look at uh
American National which was our first
business we acquired highly diversified.
Um American equity a monoline writer of
insurance annuities and Argo a specialty
writer. And our Argo is an interesting
one because most specialty writers when
run properly in the United States trade
at two and a half to three and a half
times book value. This was a business
that had some challenges in particular
on the investment side. Uh and uh and we
were able to acquire it for one times
book value and we've taken the last few
years rebuilding it into a specialty
writer in the US with an investment
approach
and we created business plans for all of
these businesses. If you look at what
we've been able to execute in these
businesses, we sold all non-core lines
of business
at 1.6 times a book. And what those
non-core lines of business were were not
businesses that were bad insurance
businesses. They just didn't fit the
profile of what we wanted. We wanted
low-risk liabilities that were highly
predictable and that were stable.
And there was many parts of the
businesses we acquired like health care
uh term life um universal whole life
products that were very insuranceed
driven or acturially driven that just
didn't fit our profile. They were more
volatile even if they had embedded
profits inside of them. They were
unpredictable if you're an investment
insurance company. So we sold off those
businesses
and we started to work very hard on
creating distribution.
American National had never done more
than one and a half billion of annuity
production in its 100year history. And
American equity had never done more than
four to six billion per year ever in its
history. So those two businesses
combined would do five billion a year in
the maximum amount of annuity production
ever. We'll do 25 billion this year out
of those. And that takes a commitment to
the operations where you're building up
distribution, you're working with
independent marketing organizations,
raas, advisors, your own agent network,
and selling your product through
multiple channels throughout the United
States. And more importantly, we're now
working with the large scale banks in
the United States to get onto their
platforms and further scale our
distribution capabilities.
We also immediately realized that we
needed to plug into our real estate
infrastructure, power, and other groups
across the Brookfield ecosystem. In the
first year alone, we reviewed over 50
billion of investment opportunities that
were inside of Brookfield where we had
an embedded information advantage and
operating advantage and we started to
put those investment opportunities into
the balance sheet of our insurance
businesses. That number this year will
exceed a hundred billion. We will have
reviewed over a hundred billion of
investment opportunities that are
suitable for the insurance business.
We also maintain a significant amount of
cash on hand. Again, high levels of
liquidity, high levels of capital. Bruce
touched on that sort of approach. In the
insurance world, they call it a barbell
approach, but really high levels of cash
and liquidity combined with very
suitable high yielding private asset
investments.
And lastly, we invested $30 billion out
of our balance sheet into BAM products
and BAM funds, helping all of the
products and funds we have scale,
helping us design new fund products,
helping us create products that were
more relevant to other insurers. And all
of this will help further the growth of
the overall Brookfield franchise for a
long time to come.
And what all of this led us down was a
platform where we felt we had some finan
some foundational elements that were now
built and could help us scale again in
the future. Let's talk about that. So
first what does investment led mean
really it's
focus on where we have an embedded
expertise and that's all the things we
do inside of Brookfield. But what we've
not touched on is it also has an
implication to leverage.
If you're focused on investing where you
have an information advantage and you
have an advantage from an operating
perspective and you can generate higher
returns, you don't need to use leverage
to generate your ROIs
and therefore dial your leverage down.
Most traditional insurance companies
operate at mid- teens leverage. Some of
them operate at 10 to 12. Some operate
as high as 20. We run our business at
six to eight times, seven, eight times
leverage. And that lumber will decrease
over time as we build up capital inside
the business. So we don't need to use
leverage to create returns. The returns
come from the investment side.
It also informs how we think of new
products on the insurance side. Really,
we're focused on lowrisk predictable
liabilities. It's why we sold off many
of the non-core lines that were in the
business in the first place.
And to put it in terms of just how we
think about it from a returns
perspective, you can see here what I was
getting at in terms of the the mix of
privates versus liquids,
the level of spread you can generate and
the leverage. And all of that drives to
maybe at certain times even a comparable
return to other insurance companies, but
with much less leverage. We view that as
being a much higher quality of earnings
stream coming out of our business
because lower leverage, same returns,
more durable cash flows, more
predictable liabilities.
And this has allowed us to actually
deliver what we've said we would deliver
five years ago.
All of our businesses are all of our
insurance businesses operate with an A
ratings. Two of our businesses got
ratings upgrades over the last three
years as we've been operating them and
building up capital.
We will generate over two billion of
distributable earnings next year from
zero 5 years ago.
We have maintained a greater than 15%
ROE since inception.
This is an important point because what
it means is every decision we make isn't
just about growth. We're not just trying
to grow AUM.
We're making decisions to prioritize
profitability over growth. And when you
do that, there's times where you will
scale back. And there's times we have
scaled back. We could have push the
envelope and actually distributed more
or written more annuities, but we are
very careful when we see rate movement
in the market.
We've been able to do this without
taking any third party capital in. This
is important because our capital at
Brookfield is permanent.
It's long-term in nature obviously and
therefore it's fully aligned with
policyh holders who sometimes own
products that will be with us for the
next 20 years. If we if we buy a pension
out of the pension markets today, we
could be paying somebody for the next 25
years. Having permanent capital backing
them ensures full alignment, ensures we
make decisions with policyh holders in
mind and that is a really important
long-term reputational matter for us as
the business grows and scales.
And then lastly,
we have been very focused on making sure
that we move beyond the US and grow in
markets where this phenomenon of aging
populations will offer further scale
opportunities.
So where do we go from here?
The first five years have been very
good. We have a great platform,
but we now have the foundation in place
to scale
our in-house distribution. As I said, we
now control the pen and the levers where
this year we could do 25 billion of
distribution. That number will only grow
as we continue to build out those
distribution relationships.
We will maintain excess capital and
liquidity. And the business today has
15 billion of cash and probably another
35 billion of short-term liquid
securities that we could turn into cash
overnight
and therefore allows us to weather any
sort of macro movement or event and be
really opportunistic to deploy capital.
We often get asked why did we both
retain a PNC business and then grow a
PNC business and our answer is A it
diversifies the risk profile which is a
good thing. You don't want to have a
business with just one singular risk. B
it allows us to have a regulatory regime
that is more favorable towards equity
oriented strategies such that we can
diversify the investment side of the
house. We can do equities, we can do
credit.
It's also a low-lever business
and in specialty where we operate Argo,
it's not regulated. So you can write
policies at anything that you think is
economic.
With the announcement of our transaction
in the UK,
we will now have a scaled platform in
the UK in such that we can operate in
Canada, the US, the UK, and we have the
very early stages of a business in Japan
that we're building out.
And maybe most important is we have
worked very hard with regulators to be
transparent, to be leading, to make sure
our disclosure is at the top end of
their expectations and to default to
overcommunication.
This business is a regulated business
and you can either view that from a
perspective of fear or you can look at
it as an amazing moat around your
business. For us, it's an incredible
moat and the more we work with
regulators, the more that moat widens
and gives us protection and creates
scarcity value for our business. And
that's the approach we've taken. So, we
are taking a very active approach making
sure that rules are strong, transparency
is strong, and that our regulators are
our partners in this business going
forward.
And with all of this that we've built
out, it now puts us in a perspective
looking forward to be able to allocate
capital to different jurisdictions and
also to different lines of business.
So as I talked earlier about the
demographic shift of people aging, I
just want to put it a little bit into
the the numbers around the US retirement
system and assets sitting inside US
retirement uh systems. So today if you
take uh in 2025 you have over $40
trillion of assets sitting in US
retirement accounts
that will grow to over a hundred
trillion by 2040. And if you look at
20 years ago you had about 7% sitting in
annuities. That's grown to about 10%
today and should grow to 15%
maybe more. What's driving that? It's
driven by well the retirement assets are
growing because you have time value and
you have uh more and more being
contributed. But what's happening and in
particular with these changing rules in
the US is the combination of private
alternative assets and annuities is
going to allow individuals to earn a
excellent return on the way up and then
have a deumulation product on the way
down. And what we will be able to offer
at Brookfield is that combination
through Brookfield asset management of
alternatives that give people higher
returns over a long period of time and
through our annuity business a
deumulation product that gives them
income for life. In effect, what we are
building
is a almost a defined benefit type
system inside of retirement accounts.
I.e. We can give people highly
compelling returns and we can give them
through our annuity and insurance
franchise a way to accumulate all of
that for the for the totality of their
lifetime and and this should present a
very very compelling opportunity for us
to scale the business in the long term.
If you take the other parts of the world
this is more meant to show the scale of
the retirement assets in those as well.
All of this to say
with our recently announced acquisition,
we will now have a platform with 180
billion of insurance float,
including the amount that the UK
business distributes per year or
participates in annually.
We'll start next year with 30 35 billion
of new in gross inflows coming to the
business. We have about 10 billion of
outflows, which means we should be 20 to
25 billion of net inflows
year-over-year starting next year. So,
the numbers start to get staggering.
And all of this positions us for highly
compelling returns, but obviously
without compromising or highly
compelling growth, but without
compromising our returns. I'm going to
spend a little bit of time on value
here. Um because the other thing that
we've seen over the last
three years
is that many of the platforms in the US
that have traded have traded at pretty
healthy valuations. So if you look at
and we're not going to call anybody out
here, but three largecale transactions
the US where you have life and annuity
players that have sold two alternative
asset managers or private equity
sponsors have all traded in that 1.4 to
2.2 times book. And if you recall, we
put up where we've been transacting.
It implies the average book value
multiple at about 1.8 time times. If you
take that and you
take our group capital which is how
these multiples have been ascribed to
our what we call capital and surplus
group capital of 17 billion and you
deduct some holding company leverage we
have the business today the capital in
the business is worth 26 billion. So
when Nick talked earlier about the fact
that we've invested 12, it's worth 26,
all that accretion has come through the
system really to reflect the business
we've built out.
If you take it the other way where you
say, okay, it's 26 billion. What does
that imply for a multiple? And you
backsolve the multiple based on the
current earnings profile. It's about a
15 times multiple. So for all the people
who are modeling out the business, this
is meant to demonstrate this is where
these platforms are trading today. This
is not our view of value. This is where
the market trades. And it really just
reflects that demographic shift and that
this enormous opportunity that's in
front of us where everyone is looking at
this saying there's a large cohort of
Americans who will need retirement
income and these platforms are designed
to deliver into that.
And if we take that and we look forward
five more years and we say well where
can this all go
again from a pure assets uh that we
could manage perspective and you start
at that 180 as I said we should net out
to about 20 to 25 billion a year net
flows
uh which over five years could add 100
to 125 billion
and we've added some M&A a here. Highly
likely we will do a little bit of M&A
along the way. It's not out of our track
record. Uh and so we feel pretty
confident that we could get this
business well in excess of 300 billion
by the end of the decade.
And again, if you run that through
distributable earnings,
it leads us to a path where uh the
numbers become
enormous. you know close over5 billion
dollars of distributable earnings uh by
the end of the decade. So this business
has tremendous tremendous growth
potential
uh and really uh the ability to
participate in this very large scale
demographic shift that's occurring
from a value perspective. Today the
business is worth around $20 a share for
Brookfield. Um, we're using next year's
earnings at 2.1 billion. Um, and that
2.1 is net of the fees that acrewed to
BAM. That's the net earnings that get
retained inside the business. And by
2030, the business could be worth
somewhere between 42 and $52 a share.
So, I'm going to summarize some key
points here.
We have spent the last five years
building out what we think is the next
global part of Brookfield that should
deliver growth for many decades to come
and and the ingredients in the
marketplace are set and our job is to
exploit those and really build out the
business around them.
The opportunity set is enormous. It's
enormous on the investment side of the
house and it's enormous
on how we source capital. And if we can
bring that together, there is a long
runway ahead.
Maybe the most important thing we've
done the last 5 years is build the
foundation for scale.
The building blocks of this business are
now in place with distribution,
with the discipline that we have, with
the capital we have, our regulatory
expertise.
And all of it will work as long as we
stay committed to this investor-led or
investment approach which really forces
the discipline to put great investments
that are completely suited for long-term
liabilities, keep the liability risk
low, keep the volatility low, and keep
the leverage down. And if we could just
do all that, we'll have an amazing
business. Thank you.
I'm gonna hand it to Bruce now. There we
go.
>> So, uh, thank you for enduring all of
us. Uh, I only have four points to, uh,
end on, then I'll take a few questions.
Uh, cocktails start shortly. Um, number
one, Satchin said it uh, better than
I'll ever say it. Um, we're positioning
BWS as a major component of Brookfield.
Uh, it started five years ago as
nothing. it will be a major major piece
of Brookfield in the longer term. Um the
growing need of wealth uh is very
significant both from annuities but also
uh from uh our alternatives that are
going to get fed into 401ks and
retirement accounts around the world. Uh
Scander said it uh many people talked
about it. AI uh is probably one of the
most um significant things that's going
to occur in the investment era um in the
last 50 years. Um power grids are going
to double in every single country of the
world. Double. They've been flat for 25
years. They're going to double. Um, on
top of that,
we're going to build backbone artificial
intelligence to drive productivity in
businesses that's being led by the
technology companies and we're helping
them do that. That is um is we're in the
very very early days of this and it's
going to be extremely significant. And
last, um, Kevin talked about it, but,
uh, the real estate recovery is, uh, on
its way. We've seen this five times
before, or I've seen it five times
before. Um, this one's,
uh, the psyche, the psyche got hurt more
this time, but the fundamentals are
actually way way better um, as we come
out of the bottom of the market. So with
those uh four points uh we'll conclude
the information for the day. Uh if um
the foundations are in place for to grow
the business
uh at 20% over the next 5 years um and
uh we're excited about it. Uh it should
lead to a clear path to a 15% annualized
return over the longer term. Uh, we've
stuck with 15 for 25 years. I don't know
why we keep saying 15. Um, but it's but
we use 15. We're not changing it. Um,
and I'll take any questions if there are
any.
>> I have one question that was in uh that
was sent in. I have one question here.
Thanks, Bruce. It's Cherylyn Radborn
from TD Kalen. Um, just on the topic of
insurance,
um, if we think back when Brookfield
first brought in private capital to
invest alongside the balance sheet, that
increased capital efficiency. Um, and
using insurance, you know, should be
another increase in capital efficiency.
Like how would you sort of compare the
magnitude
Look, I think between uh I think between
um
wealth and annuities, and we kind of
think of them the same. Uh we always I
don't know why this is, but we always
build our business a little differently
than everybody else. Um our our our
wealth product for um
uh mid-level income customers is going
to be annuities and uh for private
wealth uh wealthier customers is going
to be uh private wealth product and um
so between annuity distribution and
wealth distribution I think the
retirement markets opening up 20 years
from today will be larger
uh will be as larger larger than
institutional money um that we run
within the business writ large. So, uh
it's I I'd say it's pretty
transformational. Um it's it's as it's
going to be as big as what's happened.
And I I didn't know what was going to
happen 25 years ago. Um we could see it.
We thought it was coming. We just didn't
know it was going to transact. And it
but it took every single year for 25
years it's grown. And I think that's
just that's just exactly what you're
going to see in wealth. You're going to
see every it's not going to be
overnight. Like it never happens
overnight. It's just incrementally
today. You can see it happening and uh
every single year for 20 the next 25
years it's going to uh more capital is
going to come from individuals and all
of a sudden we're going to wake up 25
years from now and it's going to be the
same thing that happened in
institutional accounts.
Uh, I have one question on the iPad
which I'm not sure I want to answer. Um,
what it says is you're not doing a very
good job. It actually doesn't say that.
Um, uh, closing the gap on the share
price to the plan value. It seems to be
the same as it was um, five years ago.
And and, uh, and how what are you doing
to achieve that? And I I I I would say
the following. Um
I I actually think that the uh
the shares trading at a at a some
discount to what we believe the full
value is. Um if you're liquidating the
we we could achieve the value of full
NAV of those numbers if we wanted to
liquidate the business tomorrow morning.
Um I'm quite confident we could sell all
the businesses for probably premiums to
those numbers. Um, so if we all decided,
all the shareholders got together and we
all decided let's just sell the
business, I'm sure we could, we could
achieve those numbers. What's more
important is,
uh, the shareholders own those
businesses and they continue to compound
and anyone that buys into it actually
buys it at a discount, which means that
the returns that we show you at growing
at 20% and earning 15% are actually
better. And I'd rather people come in
and enter at a point where they're going
to be more assured of a good experience
with us for the next 20 years. And um of
course it's always better if you trade
closer to to your liquidation value. But
um what's probably more important is
that the businesses underlying
uh keep growing and and the numbers as
stated even if you don't narrow that
discount and and at times we will and at
times we do but even if you don't the
numbers are um are pretty compelling
within the uh financial metrics of the
business and it gives us extreme
optionality just to do things in the
company and and and the security we have
at Brookfield Asset Management
with the distribution and being a pure
play asset management business. That's
where a lot of our growth is coming. And
if we need a security to issue, it
trades um
it has a peer group and a fundamental
analysis where people look at it and
trades trades therefore better in the
marketplace and closer to value. And
that's that's the one we in Brookfield
Corporation
net net I don't think we've issued a
share for 25 years. Um and uh I don't
think we ever will have the intention of
issuing a share again on a net basis. If
we ever have to issue one, we'll buy
them all back in the market. Um and it
would be only because we did some
transaction and somebody had to take we
had to give them shares because that's
what they wanted. We'd buy them all back
in the stock market.
I'll take one more question if there are
any. There's one in the back.
>> Hi Bruce, this is Bob Goddisman of First
Manhattan.
>> Hello Bob.
>> See you.
>> Question.
With all of the assets that you're
thinking about that are Brookfield
related going into the insurance
portfolio,
what's the appropriateness of simply
putting BN stock in insurance company
portfolios
and how much is an appropriate amount?
So first question is this an appropriate
investment for
one of your insurance companies to own
BN stock and the second what appropriate
amount
>> uh I think the answer is no we wouldn't
put in the insurance in the insurance
companies we would not put uh BN shares
into the insurance companies um just
from a
related party standpoint I think it
would just be a stretch too far and I
don't think we would do it. Um,
I'm not saying it's not a good
investment.
I'm just saying a regulator may look at
it and say that's not since it's the
company that owns the reg the regulated
insurance business. I don't think we
would that's not something we would do.
Um,
I'll use that just to segue to say that
uh, often we say they're Brookfield
related products going into the
insurance company, but they're really
not Brookfield things. It's a loan we
made to some company that Brookfield
Asset Management originated and it got
put into the insurance company and
that's called a related party
transaction. But, but in fact, it's not
it's often it has nothing to do with
quote unquote Brookfield. It's just
being originated by the insurance
company. And this those things are how
they're just defined under um under
regulations.
Okay. Uh you've endured enough. If you
have time, we'd love to have a drink
downstairs with you. If it's not raining
outside, I don't know if it's raining.
Uh it'll be outdoors. If it's uh
raining, it'll be indoors. Uh thank you
for being here. Thank you for your
support of Brookfield. We appreciate a
lot. Um, and I hope you got something
out of today's presentation.
[Applause]
