Last year when we gave this
presentation, we explained how our
platform was prepared to deliver and
double in size over 5 years, matching
more than the growth that had been
delivered in the 25 years prior.
This year, we intend to convey how we
continuously add new additional growth
levers to our business that will allow
us to outperform our long-term earnings
targets, not only in the near- term, but
beyond.
Today, Brookfield Asset Management is
the leading global alternative asset
manager focused on real assets. We
manage over a trillion dollars across
five key verticals and we use a distinct
owner operator approach to deliver
attractive riskadjusted returns across
all our strategies and products
and our platform our global reach our
scale allows us to deliver on this
performance. But it is our focus on
critical assets and services, the
backbone of the global economy that
ensures that we are always positioned at
the epicenter of the largest and most
attractive investment themes around the
world.
We execute on this business through an
irreplaceable platform that is global in
nature that allows us to raise and
deploy capital in all of the world's
most attractive markets.
We use boots on the ground individuals
that allow us to invest, operate, and
raise funds across each of our
strategies in every market around the
world that we do business.
And while that gives us a platform for
success and growth, it also gives us an
unparalleled global perspective to
identify new trends around the world
that we can position our business to
capitalize on wherever and wherever they
originate.
And as we continue to say and have been
saying for years, the largest investment
themes around the world today are those
of digitalization,
delobalization,
and decarbonization.
Similar to what we said last year, these
are attractive because the growth
opportunities and the capital needs in
each of these themes are so significant
that they outstrip what is available
from both public companies and from
governments. And this creates a large
attractive and growing opportunity for
private capital. And that comment is
more true today than it was last year.
And it's far more true today than it was
four or five years ago when we started
talking about the 3Ds.
And we continue to believe that the
largest and most attractive
opportunities are for those who can
operate at scale at the epicenter of one
or more of these dynamics.
And when you look at our platform, our
position in the market and the themes
that we are on the forefront of, we not
only have a business that can double in
less than 5 years, but can continue to
add new growth levers over time on a
repeatable basis.
And that allows us to deliver up to 20%
compound earnings on a year-over-year
basis. Not just in the near term, but
longer term as well.
And we can do this because of the
leadership position that we already have
that we continue to build from. And that
leadership position is very difficult
for anyone to replicate. It's been built
over decades of delivering attractive
risk adjusted returns at a scale and a
consistency that few if any can match.
However,
our focus on the backbone of the global
economy and our continued focus on
essential assets sometimes overshadows
what we think is an underappreciated
component of our business, which is we
continue to work to preserve our
leadership position by constantly
evolving our platforms to take advantage
of whatever the next large and
attractive opportunity is.
By doing this, we can continue to raise
more capital from a wider spectrum of
investors.
And similarly, on a continuous basis, we
can generate proprietary deal flow. We
can identify new trends. And we can
continue to launch and scale new
products and strategies that meet the
needs of the market and of our clients.
And as we think of what are the dynamics
that will continue to add these new
growth levers in the future, there are
four. These are products, partnerships,
performance, and individuals.
Let's start with products.
Brookfield has a proven embedded
capability to scale strategies that we
already have, but we also have a unique
and repetitive capability
to develop, build, and launch one new
strategies that meet the evolving market
needs around the world and the demands
of our clients, as well as products
within those strategies that are
uniquely tailored to the wide widening
spectrum of investors that are now
seeking to get exposure to alternatives.
And we can do this very efficiently and
effectively because we already have
large and leading platforms across the
most important and fastest growing
segments of the alternative sector. When
we launch a new adjacent or
complimentary product, it is not
starting from scratch. It can leverage
the existing global platform that
already exists within that asset class.
And this allows us to do this on a
repeated basis with a high degree of
success very quickly and at strong
margins.
And Hadley's going to come up shortly to
explain our five-year plan. And what
she's going to show is that our largest
products, our flagships, they continue
to scale very quickly.
But a growing portion of our future
growth is now coming from complimentary
and ancillary products. And this is not
new.
This is part of an ongoing process that
been has been happening for more than a
decade where we are systematically
looking to offer the full suite of
products and services across debt,
equity and structured solutions across
every vertical we have for every
investor type we look to service.
And this is already showing up in our
results. Over 70% of our fee revenue
today comes from products and strategies
that have been launched in the last
decade. And we expect those strategies
to make up about twothirds of our
fundraising in our 5-year plan. So what
are some tangible examples of this?
Over the last 10 years, we've built a
credit franchise that today represents
30% of our global revenues and is
growing at more than 20% a year. And
we've done this solely by not trying to
be all things to all people, but rather
leveraging the existing leadership
positions we already have. We have a
leading real asset finance business that
leverages Brookfield's historical
leadership in real assets. We have an
leading opportunistic credit franchise
leveraging Oak's historical leadership
position. And we have one of the largest
and fastest growing asset back finance
franchises leveraging the leadership of
Castle Lake Primary Wave and our other
partner managers.
But it doesn't always take 10 years.
Sometimes it can be a lot faster. In
2021, we launched our first ever energy
transition product leveraging our
multi-deade track record within
renewables.
In less than five years, we now have a
franchise that produces over $400
million a year. And every product within
that strategy is market leading in terms
of its scale. And we were able to do
that by simply leveraging the
capabilities, platform, and knowledge
that already existed within Brookfield.
And this is not a one-hit wonder. We are
already seeing history repeat itself.
Today there is a significant market
opportunity to fund the growth of AI
infrastructure both in this country and
around the world. And that strategy is
going to require a unique pool of
capital that is dedicated to the
investment profiles within that theme.
And given our leadership in digital
infrastructure, our relationships with
the hyperscalers,
our experience in advanced
manufacturing, and our leading power
business around the world across
traditional renewables and nuclear, we
feel we are placed to launch a
marketleading AI infrastructure
franchise and you will hear more about
that on the panel later today.
So let's move to partnerships.
Brookfield is unique.
Our owner operator approach, the
alignment that comes by investing
significant Brookfield capital alongside
our LP partners and our owner op and the
dedicated industry specific knowledge
and experience.
This differentiates us and makes us a
sought-after counterparty for the
largest and most important organizations
in the world for their strategic and
growth initiatives.
And our ability to provide large-scale
flexible capital solutions and to
deliver transaction certainty provides
us a large and attractive proprietary
deal flow pipeline where we don't need
to compete on cost of capital and we are
able to offer this interactive
deployment to our clients through our
private funds. And again, this is not
theoretical.
Simply from bilateral partnerships that
we have announced in 2025, we have $40
billion of go forward deployment
opportunities. And that's on top of
partnerships we'd announced before this
year where we're already and
continuously deploying capital.
And obviously we can use this attractive
deal flow to scale up some of our
existing strategies, but we can also use
it to launch new strategies. The way our
Barclay's partnership is helping us
launch our financial infrastructure fund
or our sovereign AI partnerships are
helping us launch our AI infrastructure
platform.
And these partnerships go beyond just
funding arrangements. By working closely
with the largest and most sophisticated
organizations around the world, we
consistently and continuously find more
ways to work together. We can be their
operating partner. They can be a tenant
in our buildings. We can manage our
pension. We can manage their pension for
them. We c they can be an offtaker of
our assets. We can pursue new
investments together in the future.
These partnerships are only going to
scale with us as our business grows.
And we are able to launch these part
execute these partnerships and we are
able to launch these products because of
what is the bedrock of our business
which is our long track record of
delivering very attractive riskadjusted
returns.
Our valueoriented approach and our focus
on essential durable assets with
long-term cash flows provides a platform
that can perform across the market cycle
and in an envir in in a number of
economic environments.
And this is particularly important today
as public markets become more volatile
and as some of the new investors looking
to get exposure to alternatives put an
increasing focus on downside protection,
consistency, and liquidity.
And this is exactly what we offer. By
continuing to invest in highquality
businesses,
we can continue to expand into the
largest and most attractive areas of
real assets, but those that can continue
to deliver the consistency and
resiliency of returns that have defined
our franchise for years. And this is
particularly important for the
individual investors we are looking to
target and also insurance companies that
are looking to get exposure to
alternatives who want those premium
returns but want to avoid illquidity and
volatility that has plagued some in the
sector. And again, this shows up in our
results across all of our major
strategies and products. We have met or
exceeded our returns on a long-term
basis.
And this is something we will not
compromise on as we continue to scale.
Our investment discipline and our
product innovation discipline will
ensure that we continue to deliver this
track record even as our platform
expands.
But there's one more point to be made
about insurance. And our focus on
highquality essential assets that
produce cash flow has insulated
Brookfield from some of the liquidity
concerns that have plagued the
alternative industry in recent periods
by focusing on businesses that generate
steady and growing cash flows and in
particular by avoiding investments that
require high valuations on exit in order
to generate returns.
We have more options to either up
finance or monetize businesses to
provide LPS distributions even if market
conditions are not ideal.
Take real estate and private equity as
an example. Two sectors of the market
where the narrative of meager dep
returns of capital is the strongest.
In just 2025 or the 12 months, the most
recent 12 months, we've actually had
some of our most active periods of
distributions reflecting the high
quality of our portfolio. This
differentiates our platform and will
provide our next leg of growth
particularly to the new investors
looking to enter the alternatives
market. Which brings us to our fourth
growth lever, which is individuals.
There are more people across more
investment types around investor types
around the world today that are looking
to get access to alternatives.
And as this takes place, we see perhaps
the largest growth opportunity for our
platform since we launched our flagship
funds.
And not only are we prepared and well
positioned to capitalize on this
opportunity, we think we can take a
disproportionate amount of share as this
market grows over time.
And the background here is simple.
For two decades, the alternatives market
has grown as institutions have allocated
more of their portfolio to alternatives.
And the important thing to be reminded
of here is this trend is not slowing
down. institutions continue to allocate
more to alternatives and that alone
could double the size of the alternative
market over the next 10 years.
And yes, while Brookfield is working to
provide alternatives to a wider spectrum
of investors, we continue to see
significant growth from within
institutions.
The dynamic of the largest institutional
investors continuing to concentrate
their capital in a smaller number of
managers with the scale, track record
and products to meet their global needs
continues to benefit us because here we
feel we are second to none.
More specifically within Brookfield,
there are still areas of the
institutional market where we are only
scratching the surface. Take Europe for
example.
For years, it's been a market we deploy
heavily into, but we've not raised as
much capital there historically. We
expect to raise three times as much
capital in Europe this year than last
year. We are still in the infancy of our
family capital business. These are parts
of our institutional platform that can
grow not at 20 or 30% but two or three
times a year going forward.
But as mentioned, everyone recognizes
that we are in the early innings of one
of the largest growth opportunities for
the alternative sector and that is
offering alternatives to the individual
investor.
This is your high net worth or retail
investor. This is your annuity or
insurance policy holder. This is your
401k or retirement market. And this
market is exciting because not only is
it larger than the institutional market
on a global basis, but h has a smaller
allocation to alternatives today. And
over the next several many years, we
expect that allocation to alternatives
to increase dramatically due to changes
in both regulation and investor demand.
And we are already on the forefront of
this trend.
Through Bose, our high net worth and
retail platform, we are going to raise
10 billion dollars this year. That is
more than 5050%
higher than last year. A momentum we
expect to maintain as we launch more
products that are specifically designed
for that distribution channel. We're
launching a private equity product
currently and we will launch another
credit product before the end of the
year. Similarly, on the insurance and
annuity side, we are already one of the
largest providers of alternatives to the
insurance and annuity space, not only
through our service at BWS that
continues to scale rapidly, but also by
offering alternatives through SMAs to
third-party insurance companies.
When we look at who will win in offering
alternatives to individual investors, it
is those who have size, brand and track
record. And here we feel we are
unmatched.
But perhaps more importantly, these
investors want those premium returns
from alternatives, but they put a higher
value on liquidity, consistency, and
downside protection. And our focus on
essential critical backbone of the
global economy assets is perfectly
matched to meet this market demand. No
one is bigger in these areas of
alternatives. And therefore, we feel we
are best placed to offer these products
to the individual market over time. And
therefore, what are we doing today?
We are using our unique capabilities to
provide real assets to meet the specific
needs of individual investors. And this
is not something we hope to do and we
hope there will be demand for. This is
exactly what we are hearing from the
plan administrators, the consultants and
the financial advisors.
Secondly, we are actively developing new
products that are specifically tailored
to the needs of these individuals and we
will look to do that as their needs
evolve and scale over time. And lastly,
we already have very large and dedicated
teams that are focused on these end
customers and we will continue to scale
these teams such that we can have a
leadership in this market the same way
we do in the institutional market.
And as such, when Hadley comes up to
present our five-year plan, we believe
the individual investor represents an
upside to our base 5-year performance
where we could materially outperform.
So in conclusion, we have a platform
that can deliver that doubling of size
in less than 5 years. But more
importantly, due to products,
partnerships, and the individual market,
we continue to add new growth levers to
our business on a consistent and
repeatable basis. And our ability to do
this will allow us to outperform our
longtime earnings target, not only over
the near- term, but beyond. Thank you.
