Good afternoon everyone. Um
uh Hadley and Connor outlined some
pretty um dramatic growth plans over the
next five years and obviously the the in
order to do that um they need to sort of
start at a very high level uh and
because of the size and scale of the
operation that growth comes from a lot
of different uh different areas. So we
wanted to try and bring some of this to
life for you. Um so the next section
we're going to do a panel with some of
my colleagues who are responsible for a
lot of that growth. Um and really try
and highlight three examples of of what
Hadley talked about. Um one growth from
our our existing mature strategies. Uh
two uh growth that comes from
complimentary strategies that that that
spin out of that and three growth from
accessing uh new channels new channels
for fundraising and and for capital. Um
so I'm going to be joined on on stage in
a minute by um by these three
individuals but but first Anuj Ranjin
who is the CEO of our private equity
business who's going to come up and talk
about Brookfield Capital Partners uh
which is our global flagship uh private
equity fund. uh we'll be launching we've
launched the the seventh iteration of
that fund um and and it's a little
unique in uh uh in the private equity
world but when you hear the description
of the strategy it's really not unique
to Brookfield right so it's very focused
on um uh durable cash flows uh
businesses that are complimentary to
what we do in infrastructure and in real
estate and as a result of that has had a
tremendous track record so over the last
uh 25 years uh through the first six
vintages uh we have an average return of
26% which I I think is the the best
performing private equity track record
uh in the market today. Um and a lot of
that importantly comes from and this
will sound very very familiar to our
from our other businesses from
operational improvements. A huge focus
on that. Uh as Connor said, we're not
really relying on you know markets being
buoyant and and multiples being high to
get those returns. A lot of it is coming
from just rolling up your sleeves and
and driving returns.
Um joining us as well will be uh will be
um from Brookfield Infrastructure Income
Fund uh is um Chloe Barry uh who uh this
is a unique fund. So this is an example
of a new fundraising uh channel for us
which is this is now our largest private
sorry our largest private wealth
platform. Uh launched just two years
ago. We've raised over $6 billion for
this strategy. also unique compared to
some of the competitive product out
there in that it's not a new strategy.
Uh really what this is is it's offering
the best of Brookfield uh Brookfield
infrastructure in particular. So it it
co-invests alongside our global uh
infrastructure fund uh our global debt
fund uh BGTF the the transition fund and
our our structured equity product as
well. Um so Khloe's going to talk a
little bit about what's made that
successful and uh and how we've uh what
the plans are for the future. And then
finally, Sakanda Rasheed is going to
join us. Sakander runs our private our
uh infrastructure business in Europe,
but more importantly is responsible for
launching our AI fund, uh which will be
uh coming out later on this fall. Um for
those of you that have been to this
conference before, you're well familiar
with the 4Ds, uh one of which is digital
infrastructure, uh which we've been
investing in over the last 10 years
through our infrastructure business. But
because of the scale uh and growth and
explosion in demand for this type of
product over the last 12 months, we
really see an opportunity to break this
strategy out as a whole uh individual
fund. Um Scanner is going to talk a
little bit about what's driving that. Um
but Connor touched on this as well. We
think there's a $7 trillion
uh opportunity here for the capital
that's going to be required to build out
data centers, additional compute
capacity, and all of the associated
power generation that that goes with
that. Um, and so this is a great example
of a complimentary strategy being born
out of an existing one that we already
had. So, uh, without further ado, I'll
ask the three of them to come join me on
stage.
[Applause]
So, um, Anuj maybe we'll start with you.
We we you and I always debate about
whether real estate had the first fund
or whether private equity was the first
fund 25 years ago, but but either way,
like we've been doing this for a really
long time. Um you're the boss now. Uh so
you can you don't have to give Cyrus all
the credit, but tell us like what has
actually, you know, been in your mind
the key differentiator for this
franchise to to to drive those returns.
>> So look, just to clarify, uh private
equity was the first one. uh real estate
can be the biggest business but you
can't take away being the first from
private equity. Um what we do is we we
are value investors who drive
operational transformation in the
businesses that we own. We focus on
industrial companies and essential
services that tr touch the Brookfield
ecosystem where we have an information
advantage or we know the business better
than anyone else could. Our goal is to
be the best owner of the business, not
just the highest payer of a business. We
make uh most of our money through margin
expansion, not multiple expansion. And
so the goal really is in any company
that we own to be able to just increase
the free cash flow in a business um
enough that it generates our returns on
its own. If we are lucky and we get some
multiple expansion on exit, we do even
better. Um, all of that taken together,
it's allowed us over 25 years to have a
top quartortile uh uh track record that
uh has been very consistent across all
of our funds. Um, it's also allowed us
to uh build some uh complimentary
strategies around our core flagship
offering. And so this capability we have
in industrials, essential services and
operations, it's allowed us to build a
structured equity product. Uh it's
allowed us to build a new wealth product
that we're soon to be launched and uh a
financial infrastructure product as
well. And so I'd say we're pretty uh
happy and pleased with the how it's
performed over the past 25 years, but
we've really got a lot of ingredients in
place today for expansion.
>> Yeah. So, so regardless of which fund
was first, which we can agree to
disagree, um over that time, that last
25 years, we have launched a lot of
different strategies. And you know,
Connor had a slide where a bunch of dots
just just sort of magically appeared as
as new strategies over that period of
time. But like it is a lot of work
launching a new fund strategy. Maybe
just talk a bit about how the AI fund
came about and and the the process that
we've got to go through to to stand a
new strategy up like this even when it
is complimentary.
>> Yeah, Brian, happy to. Well, firstly,
I'll say it's been one of the most fun
projects, if not the most fun assignment
I've had over the last 13 years at the
firm. Uh but obviously it's not come
without its challenges. Uh we've had to
huddle up multiple times over the last
18 months to ensure we have conviction
uh that this is going to be a highly
scalable platform. Uh to make sure we
have the right deals uh to show to our
investors and also obviously to make
sure that the clients our clients
themselves are interested in a product
like this. Um so those have been some of
the challenges we've had to grapple
with. The good news is we've done it
before. As Hadley talked about earlier,
just four years ago, we launched our
transition strategy which as Connor
mentioned today is generating $400
million of annual revenue. We've raised
$30 billion of capital over the last
four years. And at the time, I would say
there's four important considerations.
First was, is the tangible market
opportunity uh big enough? The answer
was yes. We expect tens of trillions of
dollars will be expected invested in the
world to decarbonize it. Secondly, do we
have the credibility and the track
record? At the time, yes, we had hundred
billion dollars of assets under
management for renewable power around
the world. Third was, can it be
scalable? And fourth was, do our clients
want a product like this? So, the answer
to all those questions was yes. Fast
forward to today, I would argue AI is no
different. It's going to be a huge
market opportunity. $7 trillion of capex
as Brian you mentioned. Uh secondly, we
have a track record. We've been doing it
for a long time. Today our art
artificial intelligence infrastructure
business is $150 billion. And third, we
have interest from our clients. So when
you pull it all together, yes, it's been
a challenging endeavor over the last 18
months, but having precedence helps and
we're really excited how we can scale
this to the next level.
and and Chloe like I guess for for seco
like the challenge here is is convincing
our existing investors this is a new
strategy and and investing in it. You
had a whole different challenge which is
that um there was a slide up there that
in 2020 we had zero private wealth
clients and today we have 60,000. So you
really had to go out and and reestablish
or sorry establish our brand in that in
that market. Can you talk a little bit
about what you know we've learned over
the last couple years in that channel
and and really what's allowed you to be
so successful so quickly with a which is
really a first-time fund?
>> Uh yeah, thanks Brian and and good
afternoon everyone. Uh I I think for for
BII
it's really our platform. Brookfield is
the preeeminent infrastructure manager.
We heard it from Hadley. We start with
the expertise with the flagship. We are
you know the best at what we do. uh we
have the longest history, we have uh the
most number of strategies, we have the
most consistent track records, we have
the deepest operational knowledge out
there. And that for BII is particularly
important because we are really
investing across the whole Brookfield
infrastructure platform, really the best
of Brookfield. And we're creating a
comprehensive infrastructure portfolio
across our platform for private wealth.
uh a as you mentioned you know the AI
fund and and secander is creating a new
fund strategy from deal deal deployment
we are doing it from the investor side
we are taking our platform and we're
putting it in a wrapper or in a fund
structure that we think is attractive
for private wealth so lower minimums
monthly subscriptions with immediate
access to the investments or the assets
held in the fund monthly distributions
the yields component this set of
investors likes um all with underlying
benefits of infrastructure. So, you
know, we look for downside protection in
our assets, uh that cash yield, the
stable cash flows, um inflation linkage,
uh so they get a bit of everything
there. And it's it's been a good ride.
>> And and um like obviously one of the big
challenges with private wealth is shelf
space, right? Getting getting in front
of these advisers and their clients and
um and getting the retention. We're not
the only infrastructure fund in the
private wealth channel. Can you maybe
just touch on a little bit about how we
differentiate our our vehicle and our
platform from from maybe some of the
competitors?
>> Of course, our our name, our brand, it
it really comes down to that to open
doors. It does open doors. People want
to hear from us in the infrastructure
space. Uh but when we're talking to
financial adviserss and investors, it's
it's really interesting to hear uh the
complimentary nature between what
they're looking for and what we offer
and how we invest and how we do
business.
individuals are looking for from an
infrastructure allocation are looking
for uh a product that's going to add
resilience to their portfolios. They've
seen the traditional 6040 mix wasn't as
diversified as they thought over the
last few years with things moving in the
same direction. They're looking for that
diversifier, that core allocation that
can add again that resilience in that in
their portfolio. And that's how we
approach investing. We look for the
highest quality infrastructure assets
out there with long-term contracted or
regulated revenues with investment grade
counterparties providing that stability
and then we do simple things around the
edges to add a bit of return. So this is
our bread and butter. It's that
operational value ad that we do day in
day out. Uh recapitalizing a balance
sheet, extending a contract, uh
improving supply chains. again things
that are in our nature to do. Uh so once
we have the product and the platform we
need to sell it and that's another
differentiating factor that's really led
to our success. We partnered with
Brookfield Oak Tree Wealth Solutions
which is our distribution platform for
private wealth. So I've worked with them
for a few years now. 150 strong
salesforce globally. Um they are
amazing. They're knowledgeable. They
want to learn more. They really believe
our products are going to add value and
create better outcomes for individuals.
And so they're out there pushing our
message and doing a phenomenal job
getting it out there
>> and and that's really going to be the
key to again there was another slide up
there about the the 401k market and some
of the changes that are coming there.
But I you know I think you you guys have
laid the groundwork with um getting the
brand in there but that Bose channel is
really the the key to unlocking that
>> 401. off the back of um the good work
that the great work that Chloe and the
infrastructure team have done that your
team have done in real estate in uh
accessing uh retail wealth channels um
that have allowed us in private equity
to actually build a product now that
we're really excited about for the
wealth channel that we're able to launch
something that probably a year ago we we
would not have been able to do so it's
that kind of um capability that we have
in house that gets shared across the
platform that really helps
>> right
>> yeah Brian I would say the reason why
the AI program infrastruure program is
differentiated is because it's not a
data center fund uh which are usually
green field in nature. So there's no
yield for investors in the first few
years. Uh half of our program will be
capital partnerships with some of the
best tech firms and governments in the
world. Those are usually yielding
investments with a very strong overall
risk adjusted return. That would be a
would be a pretty good fit for the BII
product.
>> Yep. We're looking forward to it.
>> Yeah. and and and while we're not
highlighting a real estate u fund in in
this discussion, that's exactly how the
the private wealth product that we
already have launched for real estate
works as well, which is co-investing in
in our um global opportunistic fund as
well. And and so what's really unique
about all this is is you're giving
access to um these private wealth
investors who don't typically have
access to these types of deals in a
rapper that makes sense for them. And
and I think that's that's been a you
know a huge game chang
>> so complimentary to the platform.
>> Right. Right. Okay. So, let's talk about
deals though. Um, that's what everybody
wants to hear about, but that there's
obviously been explosive growth. We talk
a little bit about the the demand and
and how we see it, but I would say every
conversation that I have with anybody
about data centers, they say, "Yeah, but
you know, what if this what if this gets
overbuilt? Like how do are we not just
running off a cliff here?" Like, how do
you think about um you know, balancing
those two things that there there is
this tremendous demand out there. Um,
but not to get too far ahead of
ourselves.
>> Yeah, Brian. So, has anyone heard the
word data centers or artificial
intelligence in the last two years? Uh,
I've been around the data center
industry for 10 years, which is a
century in the in the tech and the and
the AI world. And I think about it a lot
and obviously I talk about it a lot to a
point where my 5-year-old daughter
thinks uh that every warehouse in the UK
or Europe for that matter is a data
center. And I obviously correct her and
tell her it's not a data center, it's an
AI factory. Um,
and 10 years ago in our business, I just
want to give you some context. In our
business, uh, we used to do victory laps
around the office if we signed a 5
megawatt contract with a customer.
Today, some of the younger guys on the
floor don't want to get out of bed for
less than a one gigawatt deal. Uh, but
there is a reason for that and the
reason is you take the US as an example.
This year the US market will add 10
gawatts of least capacity. Uh that's
unprecedented. Um the vacancy rates in
the US data center market are less than
two and a half%. Also unprecedented. Uh
and lastly I would say if you watched
Oracle results last night or if you
watch the White House tech dinner from a
week ago uh the amount of dollars
expected to be invested in the US alone
might actually be understated uh
underestimated already. Um, so obviously
the point is the dollars are huge and
there's naturally concerns that are we
going to have over bills similar to the
1840s when the the rail buildout in the
UK led to $25 billion of bankruptcies in
today's dollars and between 1995 to 2001
we had the dotcom bubble that led to a
lot of casualties in the fiber space. So
investors and I guess everyone at
Brookfield is is rightly thinking about
is this a bubble? The counter to that is
is three things. First is
we've had unprecedented growth or demand
in our renewable power business and our
data center business in the last two
years. But we've not invested any
capital on a speculative basis. We have
incredibly strong counterparties on the
other side of the contract and long
duration contracts 20 years plus. So
that gives us the comfort that our
capital is protected and is invested to
serve some of the most credible
companies in the world. Uh so that's the
first point. The second point I would
make is the early results of the
technology the early results from the
tech firms are quite strong. You can
read the reports this morning from what
Oracle reported last night. Microsoft
two weeks ago reported a 20% jump in its
Azour revenues thanks to incorporation
of the AI product and similarly meta
reported a 20% jump thanks to AI. So my
point is we'll have to watch this
carefully but early signs are positive
and lastly it's a bit of a technical
point. I do want to draw parallels to
the fiber casualties. Fiber by
definition has unlimited capacity.
That's not the case with data centers.
There's a shortage. There's a demand
supply shortage at the moment. So
anyways, Brian, so summary is yes, it is
right to be thinking about some of the
casualties and overbuilt infrastructure
capital overshooting itself, but there's
signs that uh there's lots of merits in
place which give us the confidence.
>> Yeah. And we we often talk about how
there's complimentary um overlap between
the different platforms. But but I when
I think of AI and and data centers in
particular, like that's one area where
in a lot of our other ones we think we
can invest better because of that
sharing. But here it's almost necessary,
right? like the the your constraint on
AI is is power and and particularly
renewable power. Um you need to land it
there like maybe just talk a little bit
about how some of the things we're doing
in AI does not actually neatly fit into
just one of the silos but really is
cutting across the whole firm.
>> Yeah, I think absolutely. U so the way I
think about this is I use this brain and
body analogy. Uh tech firms are building
the brain and infrastructure investors
build the body. The brain cannot think
or function without the body. It cannot
communicate. It cannot listen. It cannot
process. Um, and what is the body,
right? What's the definition of this
body? It's AI infrastructure. It's land
to Brian's point. It's um land, it's
power, it's data centers, and it's the
chips and of course the capital. So in
our business individually whether it's
real estate or renewable power uh or
data centers or infrastructure we have
worldclass businesses and the point is
we want to bring it all together. So I
want to contextualize that with an
example in north of France our real
estate business owns a very large
industrial site. It's got hundreds of
acres of land. It's got 100 megawatts of
power and uh we've worked with our
renewable power colleagues to figure out
a way to scale that power from 100
megawatts to 1 gawatt. Uh we see there's
a path in doing so and on the technical
side this particular location is located
within 2 to 5 millisecond latency for
between Amsterdam uh Frankfurt London
and Paris and those are the largest data
center markets in Europe. So what have
we done with that? Coming back to
Brian's question, we've taken that land
plot, that package to the French
government and the European Union who
are very keen to work on a sovereign AI
project with us. And if they're picking
us because we've got those assets and we
have a program that we can fund. So
hopefully that example helps
contextualize why we believe we are
extremely well positioned to be a big
big player in the AI space.
>> Okay. And and Chloe, like Connor talked
a little bit about um how we uh use the
flagship funds to spin out strategies.
Your your your strategy is very much
that um where we're um we're touching on
it, but you're not doing every deal in
every single fund. So maybe just talk a
little bit about how we're utilizing the
platform and and then how that's a real
differentiator for for BII.
>> Yeah. So, so I think we've at Brookfield
we have a really good track record of
growing platforms, launching more
strategies. Uh, BII
is in a very fortunate position uh where
the investor base is so immense and uh
you know private wealth has very little
allocation to alts today and and the
growth could be immense there. Uh but we
need deal flow to pair with it. Uh so as
you say it's very important we have the
platform to invest alongside and and
keep growing uh and we will build in new
strategies like the AI fund into where
we can deploy within BII as we again
will be the best of Brookfield
infrastructure across the whole
platform. Uh but I think it's important
to note that Brookfield's you know we've
been doing this for years this
innovation this growth uh if we just
look at infrastructure you know we're
not doing anything new with these new
funds we look at deal deployment that we
don't have a pool of capital for or
investors that are looking for something
a little bit different from what we
offer today and we pair the two together
like sickander spoke about so within
infrastructure we started with the
flagship uh fund Brookfield
infrastructure fund about 15 years ago
it gave us that credibility ability
Hadley spoke about in this space, that
knowledge, that deep operational knowhow
uh and that presence in the market. And
then we saw an opportunity a few years
later from the deal side where as we
were talking to infrastructure owners
and operators, not all of them wanted to
sell equity, but almost all of them
needed capital to grow their businesses.
And so we launched the infrastructure
credit strategy, now the largest in for
credit strategy in the world. So that
was deal driven. And then on the
investor side, investors wanted
something a little lower risk return,
more bond-like cash flow. So we launched
our supercore infrastructure fund uh a
perpetual institutional offering. And
then a few years later back on the deal
side uh transition. So our presence in
renewable power was so strong we saw
that adjacent strategy in transition and
we took the opportunity to launch that
uh which is now the largest transition
strategy in the world. uh sick Anderson
said, you know, as we said, we saw the
deal flow as well. The AI fund which BII
can invest alongside as well. So again,
on the deal side and BII does it all. Uh
so it's just so important that we have
that all wrapped up for us and that deal
flow coming in so we can raise you know
all that great capital out there.
>> Right. Okay. So um Anush your group does
uh a fair bit across all the various
platforms as well. Like maybe just with
a couple minutes we got left here. Just
touch a little bit on a couple of
examples of where private equity similar
to what what Seiko described on uh AI
has has sort of touched across the
platforms.
>> Yeah, look we're a we're a huge
beneficiary of the overall Brookfield
ecosystem and all of our platforms. U
many of the businesses we've acquired,
we've been able to learn a lot from our
colleagues on the end markets or the
actual underlying business model. So
Westinghouse is an example, the obvious
leader in nuclear services. Um if it
wasn't for our presence in renewable
power being the largest in the world, we
wouldn't have fully understood that
there was no transition without nuclear,
uh we were able to underwrite those uh
assets on a plant-by-plant basis and
really predict those cash flows with a
whole lot of accuracy. Um, if it wasn't
for real estate, I don't think we would
have had a good understanding of the
Canadian or the Australian housing end
markets to be able to underwrite First
National, which we which we did very
recently, or the TRO, which we did a few
years ago in Australia, or Sage, the
mortgage insurance provider that we own
also in Canada. And uh on the
infrastructure side, an acquisition we
made in January of this year um is a
company called ChemX which provides heat
tracing equipment um that is used for
pipes or other types of uh
infrastructure utility type assets to
keep what moves within the pipe at a
precise temp at a precise temperature.
Um if it wasn't for our infrastructure
colleagues who educated us on how the
mission critical critical nature of this
end product and service, we uh we
probably wouldn't have been able to
surface value there either. So, I'd say
we we having the broader platform,
having the insights and the data and the
knowledge from across the Brookville
ecosystem, it allows us to act with
conviction and often uh invest where
other and find value where others don't
see it.
>> Okay, great. So, we have three minutes
left. There's three of you and you have
a room full of investors. Um, so I'll
give you each 60 seconds to uh make your
elevator pitch on on your strategy and
ju and just really sort of highlight,
you know, what what the um the
opportunity is for uh for investors and
each and what you want to leave people
with. So Chloe, maybe
>> I'm hoping I don't need my six seconds
of I already sold you all, but um for us
it has to be the platform for BI. It's
so important. Over 125 years, we've
built a platform with global scale and
reach. It allows us to be flexible. We
can look for the best riskadjusted
returns around the world. You pair that
with our operational value ad, our
expertise and it's an incredibly
powerful combination and BII gets the
benefit of all of it.
>> So the proof is in the pudding. Um, of
all the listed asset managers, we have
the best private equity track record
period. And uh if that interests you, I
have subscription forms with me and
we're happy to take orders.
>> That was a good one. I uh it's going to
be hard to beat that. Uh I'll go back to
my brain and body analogy. Tech firms
are building the brain. Uh they need
partners who can build the body. And I
would say in the last three, two, three
years, uh two things have changed. one
the AI race is not only between China
and the US alone every western nation
and select Asian economies want to
participate in it so that's changed the
dynamic a little bit second is u the
race is also between the tech firms
themselves
and so therefore and the pace of
technological innovation is
exponentially increasing literally on a
monthly basis so what that means is
three years ago the tech firms Whilst
they're building the brain, they could
pick different stakeholders to build a
body for them, assemble it, fund it.
Now, they're looking for one partner.
And as we talked about earlier, we
believe given the strength of our
platform and given the various
ingredients of the body that the tech
firms need, we're really well positioned
to capitalize on what is quite topical
at the moment.
>> Great. So, so hopefully that that gave
all of you a little more color for um
you know some of the various strategies
and the different channels that we're
we're pursuing to um to drive some of
our growth. So, thank you very much for
your time.
