Now turning to carried interest and
Hadley touched on this earlier but I I'm
going to dig into it a bit more detail
and do a bit of a refresher but really
carry continues to be a material
component of our value proposition and
we believe it is still underestimated.
We earn our carry from two sources. The
first of these we call our legacy funds.
These are the funds that were raised
before the separate listing of
Brookfield Asset Management. I.e. funds
that were raised before the end of 2022.
For those funds, we earn 100% of the
carried interest, 100%, but we also
incur 100% of the costs. So, this is a
legacy. This is a cash flow stream from
funds raised before 2023 that will run
off to zero over time. And in that time
we will earn a combined margin of 65%.
The second stream is what we call the
royalty. This is against funds raised
from the start of 2023 onwards where we
have a perpetual right to earn 33% of
the carry and we incur zero costs. This
is effectively a perpetual royalty at a
100% margin.
Now how that carry makes its way into
income is also worth refreshing. We
follow a European model for the
waterfall as how it comes into income.
That means we realize carry on a fund by
fund basis which is different to an
American waterfall which realizes carry
on an investment byinvestment basis. We
follow the life cycle set out on the
page. First we invest the capital of a
fund. We then sell assets and return all
of that capital to our clients. We work
our way through the preferred return
across the entire fund. And once that
preferred return has been delivered, we
start to realize carry on every
incremental dollar.
Now over the life of a fund, the carry
you realize under a European and
American waterfall is exactly the same.
But under our approach, that recognition
is deferred to later in the life of the
fund.
This approach
ensures strong alignment of interest
with our clients. We do not realize any
carry until the risk of clawback is very
remote. It derisks future carry
recognition. And if you think about how
you work through that waterfall, it also
dramatically increases your line of
sight to carry as you work through the
process.
And we believe that our carried interest
is now very much at an inflection point.
The scale, diversification and number of
the funds that we have right now is
increasing dramatically the carry
potential to Brookfield Corporation.
Second, transaction activity, as you've
seen in our results and recent
achievements, has dramatically
increased.
That means we're returning more capital
to our clients, which is going to result
in larger, more stable, and consistent
stream of carried interest coming in
cash and into income for the
corporation.
To put that into numbers, over the next
10 years, we expect the net realized
carried interest to Brookville
Corporation to be $25 billion. It was
just $4 billion for the last 10 years.
we expect to be $25 billion in the next
10 years. If we narrow that time frame
down even more to just the next three
years, it's $6 billion of net realized
carried interest that we expect to
realize in cash and into income over
that period. But to think about the line
of sight we have to that six billion,
twothirds of the carry, twothirds of the
six billion will come from seven funds,
just seven funds that have a proven
track record and on aggregate have
already returned 90% of their capital.
So it's that increased line of sight
that's giving us the confidence in our
ability to recognize this carry into
income over the plan period.
And as I mentioned, the carry potential
of the organization is increasing
significantly. If you think about the
plans that were laid out by Connor and
Hadley in their presentation, carry
eligible capital is scaling to $575
billion over the next five years. As we
execute our plans, buy for value and
create value in our investments. Annual
generated carrier interest is scaling to
7 billion 5 years from now. and realized
carried interest is increasing up to$6
billion dollars on a gross basis. Now,
if you look at the plan five years from
now, you can see the gap between the
gross and the net is widening out. What
that is in practice is those legacy
funds running off and the royalty funds
starting to be the more meaningful
contributor to carried interest for the
corporation in the future, but still
generating meaningful amounts of cash to
the corporation as we move forward.
Now we value this carried interest today
at $34 billion. The valuation approach
we have there is consistent with how
we've shown it in the past is taking the
target carried interest net which is the
carry compounding for us every day. The
returns that we have against the carry
eligible capital is $2.7 billion of
annual net target carry today at a 10
times multiple is a plan value of 27
billion. If we add on the accumulated
unrealized carry, that is the amount
that if we sold everything today at the
current marks is what we would realize
into income. Add that to the 27 and we
have a value of $34 billion.
Now, we've tried to come at this a
slightly different way to validate uh
the $34 billion. We've also run a DCF
and we've broken the DCF into three
lines. We've done an MPC MPV of the
legacy funds, running out the cash flow
that we expect to receive from those
funds that are running off and
discounted it back to today. We've done
an MPV of the royalty cash flow stream,
running out the royalty over the next 10
years and discounting it back. And
lastly, we've applied a franchise value
to the royalty stream at the end of the
10-year period and discounted it back
today to prove out that the $34 billion
at an 8.5% discount rate. and we run a
small sensitivity. The punchline I would
really have on Carry is it's very
meaningful to our value proposition. It
will generate significant cash and
income for the business for the next 5
years and as we move forward and it's
very valuable to the corporation.
If I pull all of that together and look
at the overall growth profile that we
have from the asset management business
distributable earnings from BAM, that is
just our share of the growth of
Brookfield Asset Management, 18% Kagger.
Distributable earnings from our direct
investments, they're growing, but our
capital at risk is coming down as we
reduce our investment. And then the
benefit and the realization of carried
interest into income culminates in a 20%
compound annual growth rate from our
asset management business over the next
5 years.
