My name is Kevin McCraine and I'm a
managing partner in Brookfield's Real
Estate Group. Today,
um, I'm going to focus on and talk to
you about why Brookfield's real estate
business is poised to take advantage of
the clear real estate recovery that is
underway. So first the capital markets
have returned beginning to fuel buyers
who have been relatively inactive as
compared to past cycles and second the
operating fundamentals are strong across
the industry including the office and
retail sectors which will be a focus of
today's discussion.
This is the foundation on why our
portfolio of premier real estate assets
is well positioned to deliver strong
earnings growth during the planned
period.
We anticipate generating 24 billion of
capital through transactions during the
plan period.
But taking a step back and looking at
our broader real estate business, our
broader real estate business is
comprised of two capital pools. our
private fund investments and our balance
sheet investments. Today, I'll focus on
and take a deeper dive into our balance
sheet assets.
So, over the past year, our balance
sheet assets have performed extremely
well. We've signed 15 million square
feet in leases across our office and
retail businesses at rents 11% higher
than expiring rents. We grew our NOI and
monetized $5 billion of our balance
sheet assets. The leasing that we've
done over the last 12 to 24 months will
begin to show up in our NOI growth over
the next 12 to 24 months as those
tenants begin to take over space and
begin to pay rents. We've also completed
16 billion in financings across both our
office and retail businesses. Eight
billion from retail and five billion
from office.
So, we've historically segmented our
balance sheet assets into two groups.
Our core assets and our transitional and
development assets. Last year, we put a
spotlight on our core portfolio.
We did this because these are our
highest value assets with the highest
growth. These are the assets that we
believe we can continue to invest in
over time and over the long term.
But our operating teams have continued
to work on our transitional and
development assets to grow our NOIs and
our value.
We believe we should now segment this
our transitional and development
portfolio in order to give you a more
granular understanding uh on the balance
of our assets.
So this is what you've seen before. our
core business, which is 35 irreplaceable
assets that are located in key global
markets, and our transitional and
development assets, which are 151 assets
that have value added strategies tied to
leasing and development that we plan to
monetize over a defined period of time.
Going forward, our portfolio is going to
be segmented into three groups. our
super core assets which will comprise 34
of our most irreplaceable assets, our
premier properties located in key global
markets. These assets are our
multifaceted, our most complex assets
that we anticipate holding forever and
continuing to invest in over time to
create value. Our transitional and
development assets will become our core
plus and value ad portfolios. Core Plus
will be a collection of 57 assets
largely office and retail assets with
growing NOIs that we intend to monetize
over time. The the key differentiating
factor between core plus and super core
is not quality of our assets. The the
key differentiating factor is our core
plus assets have defined hold periods
and either business plans that we we
intend to complete or have been
completed.
Our value ad assets will comprise a
portfolio of 95 assets primarily located
in secondary markets that we intend to
reposition to enhance our NOIs and
ultimately monetize over time.
As you can see, the overwhelming
majority of our invested equity sits in
our Supercore and Core Plus portfolios.
Our super core accounting for 60% of our
invested capital and our core plus
portfolio accounting for 25%.
Now while we spent last year
highlighting our super core portfolio,
it's worth worth recapping here. This
portfolio of 34 properties, 90% of the
value sits in our US and international
office assets and our retail portfolio.
We have an asset level LTV of 47%
95% occupancy and account for 19 billion
of our invested equity.
10 of these assets are trophy office
assets located in key gateway cities New
York, London, Toronto, and Dubai. In New
York, it includes Brookfield Place and
Manhattan West, flagship office campuses
that have 93 and 94% occupancy,
respectively. in London. It includes 100
Bishop's Gate, a 1 million square foot
office tower that's 100% leased and has
14 years of Walt. It also includes the
Canary Wararf estate and Brookfield
Place uh Toronto. These assets have 94%
occupancy, a 10-year Walt, and account
for over eight billion dollars of
invested capital. Our Supercore
portfolio also includes 18 of the best
shopping centers around the world. It
includes 735th Avenue, also known as the
Crown Building, which is located at 57th
Street and Fifth Avenue, probably the
best retail corner in the world. It also
includes Tyson's Galleria, a pure luxury
shopping uh destination outside
Washington DC, Shops at Merrick Park in
Coral Gables, Miami, Fashion Show on the
Las Vegas strip, and Shops at Merrick
Park, a luxury shopping destination in
San Antonio.
Together, these assets generate almost
$1,200 per square foot in sales and
account for almost 9 billion of equity
value.
And finally, our super core portfolio
includes six residential and mixeduse
assets. It includes the Eugene apartment
building located in New York City and
the Pendry Manhattan West. These assets
together have almost $2 billion of
equity value and an occupancy of 94 to
96%.
But today we want to focus on our core
plus portfolio. This portfolio in in
almost any other business would be
considered super core.
So our core plus portfolio is 57 assets
account for 99% of our 8 billion of
equity value. Our our office equity
value is almost equally split between
our North American office properties in
New York, Toronto, and Calgary and our
international portfolio in London,
Tokyo, and Perth. These assets maintain
a 44% loan to value and have 94%
occupancy.
But when put side by side with our super
core portfolio, the performance metrics
are almost identical. As I mentioned,
the the key differentiating factor
between these two portfolios is not
quality. Our super core portfolio are
just more complicated assets we intend
to hold forever and continue to invest
in over time uh to continue to create
value. And our core plus portfolio are a
collection of fantastic assets that we
intend to hold for defined periods
before monetizing and realizing on our
business plans.
So looking at our core plus portfolio
which is a portfolio of of 26 office
buildings located in key global markets
such as New York, London, Tokyo,
Calgary, and Perth. These assets
together have a 91% occupancy and are
some of the best located assets in their
markets. You're going to hear from some
of our office regional leaders in a
little bit. Um and what they'll describe
is significant upside in these assets
given the growing demand uh for office
space in their markets as well as the
rising rental rates. These assets have
eight years of Walt and account for
almost $3 billion of our equity. Our
core plus portfolio also includes 27
retail centers that generate a
tremendous amount of sales and are
located in growing markets such as
Durham, North Carolina, Atlanta,
Georgia, Houston, Texas, Seattle, and
Salt Lake City. These assets generate
$800 per square foot in sales. But the
growing demographic profile of these
markets will allow us to leverage our
best-in-class operating team to continue
to curate these assets to bring in new
tenants that will increase our sales and
our NOIs. Together, these assets have
over $5 billion of equity.
We're going to spotlight some of our uh
core plus office and retail assets when
we get to our case studies, but for now,
we'll turn to the office market.
So, you've been hearing from us over the
last number of years about return to
office trends. You've undoubtedly read
the numerous news articles on the topic
and I assume all of you are back in the
office yourselves. But this slide really
tells a story of what's happened over
the last two years. So, two years ago,
only 5% of companies had a fully inoff
work requirement and the average work
requirement amongst all companies was
just over two and a half days per week.
Today over half the companies have a
fully inoff work requirement and all
comp all company average work
requirement is almost four days per
week. So what happens when everybody
goes back to work?
The demand for office space is soaring
because companies vastly underestimated
the amount of space they were going to
need coming out of the pandemic.
So, everybody's back at work and demand
is soaring, but there is virtually no
new office supply as office development
um was essentially paused coming out of
the pandemic and existing supply is
being converted to other uses.
So, what happens when everybody goes
back to work? Demand is soaring for
space and there is no new supply coming
online.
there becomes a significant premium for
new office space.
The the premium for new office space is
averaging 60% globally. In markets like
New York and London, it's over 100% and
almost 80% respectively. We are signing
leases at our assets in these markets at
over $250 a foot and over 150 pounds per
foot. This increase in rental v is is
going to drive the entire market in the
near term as tenants can't find new
space will ultimately be looking to
other class A product to lease.
This is why our portfolio our office
portfol global office portfolio is well
positioned to take advantage of the
strengthening fundamentals across the
sector. So now we want you to hear from
a few of our regional leaders about what
they're seeing in their markets and
spotlighting a few of the assets in
their regions.
It's important to recognize that the
office is is still a hugely important
part of business's approach.
>> When I think about the office market in
Perth, I would describe it as resilient.
Demand remains the strongest for
buildings and workplaces that offer a
premium office environment.
Brookville Place, Perth is one of the
most significant commercial precincts in
Australia. There are few that can match
for its location, its proximity to the
public transport, its connection to
community, its operational performance,
and overall tenant satisfaction. We can
see the development in late 2000,
transforming two vacant blocks of land
and several heritage buildings into a
world-class business hub. The office
tower was 100% pre-leased at practical
completion. In the past 12 months, we've
renewed a number of major tenants with
occupancy today sitting at around 94%
with a weighted average lease expiry of
8 years.
>> Demand in the office market in Toronto
is extremely strong and approaching
pre-COVID occupancy. Brookfield's AAA
product is currently 98% leased. Tenants
today are looking to expand the
footprint as they bring more and more
people back to the office.
Over the past four quarters, our busiest
building has been First Canadian Place.
This is the tallest commercial building
in the country with powerful street
presence at the center of the financial
core. The location of this asset has
driven 400,000 ft of leasing over the
last four quarters. Occupancy has
increased from 90 to 95% with 3% of that
gain done in Q2 2025.
London is a great city. People want to
live and work here and global businesses
are attracted by its stability, access
to talent, excellent infrastructure and
connectivity. Our London portfolio is
performing incredibly well. We're 98%
le. Last year, we saw 75% of our
transactions were for more space. With
strong demand and limited supply
dynamic, we witnessed 10% year-on-year
rental growth for the best office
properties.
One Leen Hall sits at the center of the
city of London. It's a 35story tower,
striking architecture with panoramic
views. We acquired the existing building
in 2013 with a vision to replace the
existing sevenstory building with a
tower that would sit comfortably amongst
the best towers in the city cluster.
Laam and Watkins were a long-standing
tenant of ours. They were experiencing
rapid expansion and looking for a new
best-in-class office. Laam and Watkins
have now committed to 290,000 square ft
across 21 floors. Occupiers are still
preferring new highquality sustainable
workspace in amenity rich locations. Our
portfolio in London is positioned well
for that demand.
So this is why our office business is
poised to deliver strong earnings growth
during the plan period.
So turning to retail,
all retail real estate is driven by the
consumer.
Consumer consumer spending drives sales.
Sales in turn drive rents. Consistent
and sustained uh sales growth will
provide for consistent and sustained NOI
growth. As you can see, since 2019,
there has been consistent and sustained
retail sales growth in the United
States.
And as of July, retail sales are over
140% of 2019 levels. But this tracks
what has happened in the US
historically. Retail sales in the US
grow by 3 to 4% annually. People like to
go out, people like to shop, people like
to eat, and people like to be
entertained. We do not anticipate this
changing. We anticipate consumer
spending to be consistent and sustained
go forward which will lead to consistent
and sustained sales growth and
consistent and sustained uh NOI growth
throughout our portfolio.
There is virtually no retail
construction happening in the United
States right now. Since 2015, retail
construction has virtually ground to a
halt with all new construction really
focused on convenience type uh retail
and not shopping destinations.
This directly impacts retailers who are
starved for more space.
Retailers make more money specifically
through their gross margins selling
through stores than through any other
distribution channel, including
digitally.
Store growth is a retailer's single best
avenue to grow their revenue and their
EBITDAS.
This is why our portfolio is well
positioned. We own and operate some of
the most productive and iconic
properties around the world.
Now, taking a look at our Super Core and
Core Plus retail centers side by side,
and you'll see they both maintain high
90s occupancy, and both have significant
sales per foot. But the true uniqueness
of our business is our best-in-class
operating team that is capable of
curating assets at the local market.
We have one of the only operating teams
capable of curating assets to meet local
market needs on a national scale. Not
every tenant belongs in every asset in
every market we're in. The the diverse
demographics of the United States
require a team capable of determining uh
which tenant belongs in which space in
in which asset in which market. This
provides for repeat customers driving
sales which will ultimately drive our
rents and NOIs.
So I'm going to turn to a couple of u
case studies on our core plus retail
portfolio and starting with Alderwood
Mall located in Lynwood me Lynwood
Washington. This is a suburb north of of
Seattle that's very affluent and has uh
an average household income of over
$118,000 a year. This asset is 99%
occupied and and has seen its NOI growth
grow by 50% since 20121.
We just successfully re refinanced our
$290 million mortgage loan on this asset
at a 5.9% interest rate. to to just
double click on that for a second. 12
months ago that interest rate would have
probably been around 6 and a.5%. So the
capital markets are seeing that quality
at retail assets like this are are um
have very much lower risk and are
allowing for tighter interest rates.
So at Alderwood Mall, we've also
recently completed uh development of an
old Sears box. We redeveloped it into
76,000 ft of retail and 328 market rate
apartments. The apartments are 96%
leased. The retail is 100% leased. The
retail generates 4 million of additional
NOI at the property. Um, and we've
recently agreed to sell the apartments
at a 4.7% cap rate.
Returning to Fashion Place Mall located
in the suburbs of Salt Lake City.
This asset is primed for near and
medium-term growth alongside Salt Lake's
8 and a half% projected growth rate over
the next five years. Fashion Place uh is
100% leased and generates almost $1,000
per square foot in sales. But this asset
is a perfect example of how our
operating team uh curated an asset
alongside a growing and dynamic market.
They undertook a strategy to replace
uh uh underperforming brands with
firsttomarket brands looking to build
market share. They brought in uh Zara,
Aritzia, and Travis Matthew. And we've
seen our sales increase by over 20% o
since 2021. And we have more tenants
that have just opened and are opening
including Viori, Coach, TAG, and Seikko.
We've also successfully just refinanced
a 200 million $290 million mortgage on
Fashion Place at 5.4% interest rate.
Shops at Brave is a pure luxury shopping
destination located in Belleview,
Washington. This asset has seen
tremendous sales growth over the last
number of years with sales per square
foot growing by over 70% since 2019 to
almost $2,000 a foot. NOI has tracked
this increase by growing at o over 80%
over that same period.
We've signed or done renewal leases with
tenants such as Hermes and Rolex and we
recently did an expansion with
Monontlair.
We also just brought in a Michelin
recognized chef to open up a new
restaurant to round out uh the customer
offerings at the asset.
And finally, Streets at South Point
located in Durham, North Carolina. This
is a flagship core plus asset located in
a a 1.3 million person trade area that
has an average household income of
134,000 a year. This is an asset we've
continued to invest in bringing in
firsttomarket brands such as Aloe,
Viori, and Aritzia.
And that has seen our sales increase by
over $70 million since 2021. And more
concepts are on their way. Dick Sporting
Goods is taking over an old Sears box
and putting in their house of sport
concept which is 150,000 feet and
includes sports related experiences for
their customers. We've also successfully
entitled excess land at this asset for
1300 market rate units providing
additional upside to our NOI.
Streets is 96% leased and generates over
$350 million a year in sales. Given the
growing demographic profile of of Durham
alongside our curation and infill
development strategy, we anticipate
significant near and medium-term growth
uh to our NOI at this asset.
So bringing it all together
over the plan period, we intend to
continue actively leasing our office
assets at higher rents to grow our NOIs
and continuing our curation and infill
development strategies at our retail
assets to drive sales and ultimately our
NOIs. We intend to monetize our core
plus and value ad assets and sell
partial stakes in our super core assets.
This should generate substantial cash
over the plan period. The, as you can
see, the 24
uh the 24 billion in dispositions was
was shown by Nick earlier today ties
right into here. And for purposes of
this plan, we we anticipated a $10
billion reinvestment in the portfolio.
So if we're successful, we should
generate $24 billion of capital from
asset sales and provide three billion in
regular dividends all while generating a
4% same store NOI growth throughout the
portfolio. Thank you and I'll turn it
over to Satchin discuss wealth
solutions.
