Hi everyone. Uh, welcome back. Thank
you. Uh, you know, Bruce lost a little
bit of time. Uh, he's just assured me he
wasn't going to say anything that
important. And, uh, I, uh, I've been,
uh, I've been told to get us back on
track. In fact, uh, Connor Tesy said to
me that for every minute I finish early,
he's going to buy me a beer. So, with
that, I'd like to end my presentation.
No, we got we got some exciting things
to talk to you about today. Um,
first of all, I'm really excited to be
here today and have with me some of my
colleagues. Uh, Sir Ron Khalifa is going
to join us later, the head of financial
infrastructure and vice chair of our
private equity business along with Doug
Baird who's a managing partner in our
private equity business in New York. And
they're going to talk about the
transformation that's going on
underpinning some of the world's
financial infrastructure. We also have
my colleague Jasri Dale who you all know
who will come at the end to tell you how
this all comes together to compound
value on a continuous basis in our
business. What I'd like to talk to you
now a bit about is where BB what BBU is
today and where we're going. And if you
think back to when we started the
company almost a decade ago, uh our
objective was to give public investors
access to Brookfield's global private
equity strategy, the entire
cross-section of it. And that's pretty
much exactly what it is today. If you
think about it, we are really a large
and valuable secondary into everything
Brookfield has in private equity, which
is the highest performing strategy that
we have at Brookfield.
Now, over 25 years, we've refined and
honed that strategy, delivering 26%
gross IRS and 20% net in that time. And
we've done that importantly through
primarily margin expansion or value
creation initiatives that we take in the
operations of our businesses. And that's
very important today for a couple of
reasons. One is it means our nav never
stays flat. Every day, every month,
every quarter, every year, we are
improving the nav of our business by
operationally improving the businesses
that we own. And secondly, in an
environment like today, it's very
important money's not free anymore.
Deals are tough. The market isn't
growing as easily as it was. You need to
be able to work your assets to roll up
your sleeves and to run them better in
order to uh in order to make your
returns. We are truly business builders.
We're not financial engineers.
Now, our stock price has been good over
the past two years. I mean, this wasn't
updated for today, otherwise it might
have been a bit higher, I think, but
let's see. Uh, I'd say we've we're up
about 90% over 2 years, well above the
S&P 500, but I'm not that happy about
that. And the reason is we have at least
another 90% to go if our NAV stayed
static. And the reason is what I
referred to earlier. Our private equity
business is constantly operating and
improving our businesses, recycling
capital, and reinvesting capital in more
assets. And that increases our NAV on a
constant basis. And so while our stock
price has gone up, our NAV has gone up
dramatically as well. The discount has
narrowed, but as you can see here, it
really hasn't narrowed enough. That NAV
is underpinned by marketleading
businesses that provide missionritical
products and services to where they have
incredible market share. We own price
setters, not price takers. And every
time we realize a business and we
recycle a dollar of capital, it's put
back to work by that same private equity
team that has generated that 25-y year
track record. So you can imagine how NAV
is going to grow going forward.
Now we've been working over the last
year, two years, many years to try and
drive a rerating in our stock. And I
think I stood we stood in front of you
last year and two years ago highlighting
this big discount to NAV. And I don't
want to sound like a broken record. I'm
highlighting a discount to nav. Again,
it's smaller, but I think that we've now
done a few things that should really
catalyze a rerating going forward. One
is in the last year, we've generated
$2.1 billion of realizations. We've used
$1.4 billion of that to be pay down debt
and deleverag.
We've started a buyback program using
$250 million which we've been able to
buy back at very accretive levels. The
stock returning capital to unit holders
and shareholders. And we've also
reinvested $500 million in growth,
investing in new businesses that we
think will generate private equity style
returns that I outlined earlier.
We've also recently sold interests in
three of our business in a secondary
transaction to an evergreen fund that is
being launched by Brookfield. And this
was done at an 8.6% 6% discount to NAV,
which is about in line with private
equity secondaries in the market, but is
very accretive compared to the 50%
nearly 50% discount to NAV we were
trading at. It just to illustrate how
accreative this is, if we took all that
money and bought back the stock at the
current price, it would add $2.50
of NAV accretion. That is material.
That's about over 5%.
The nice thing is the secondary market
has matured. The secondary market's
gotten a lot more liquid and there are
opportunities for Brookfield due to our
scale and our breath and our brand to be
able to access other capital like this
and get these kind of creative solutions
to generate value.
We also as as most of you would have
seen this morning um believe and
announce that we can simplify our
corporate structure in the long-term
interests of our benefit and long-term
benefit of our shareholders and unit
holders. And so we are going to convert
or combine the BBULP units and the BBC
exchangeable shares into one publicly
traded listed Canadian corporation. This
will be done on a tax deferred basis for
all Canadian and US investors on a
one-toone basis and we'll have very
importantly just one listed security on
the NYC and the TSX. There is no impact
or change to how we manage or run our
operations and we expect to complete
this in the first quarter. Now, the
reason we're really excited about this
and the benefits that we think will
acrue to all BBU investors is first this
will result in an over 50% improvement
in our consolidated trading liquidity,
making our shares more broadly available
to more investors all over the world.
And second, as many of you know, the
role that passive indices and the
capital that tracks them plays in the
public markets today is very
significant.
BBU was sort of underserved by not
really participating in or being
included in many of the indices because
of its structure. Just this or
reorganization
we believe will result in over two times
increase in ownership by passive holders
of the stock. That's a significant
demand on our float.
Now everything I've talked about so far
is I'd like to say about the past or
today our NAV today the discount to our
NAV today and what we've done to
catalyze a sort of rerating in our stock
today. But I want to speak to you a
little bit about how we feel about the
future.
We have always bought and transformed
and reshaped or remade businesses.
That's very simply what we've done.
We've bought great businesses, good
businesses. We've put our operational
people into the business to transform
them, shape them for the future, and
make them global champions.
That could not be more exciting when we
are in the midst of what's happening
today around artificial intelligence and
what we call the fourth industrial
revolution. It's very real. It's
happening before our eyes and it's going
to happen a lot faster than the steam
engine. We're very excited about this
because it gives us another tool in our
toolkit to deploy as we go and transform
these businesses. The key word in fourth
industrial revolution is industry and
industry will need to see those
productivity improvements in order for
those productivity gains in order for
all of this investment in artificial
intelligence to be paid back. You've
heard before uh and I'm sure my
infrastructure uh partners will talk
about it soon that we think that there's
a $7 trillion opportunity for investment
in AI infrastructure. In addition to
that, just think about all the
investment going into the technology
building out AI itself. For all of that,
with the cost of capital that it has
attached to it, you are going to see a 2
to4 trillion annual productivity
improvement in industries as we go
forward.
The bottleneck today is not the tech.
Two years ago, the the bottleneck was
technology. It was cool. It was a neat
party trick. you would show your friends
something you did on chat GPT but it
wasn't really useful. Today the
productivity uses are real and we can
see how they are increasing. So the
technology is not the bottleneck. The
bottleneck is being able to actually
have management that knows how to
implement it, use it properly and
transform their businesses. We are at
the leading edge of this at Brookfield.
Again this is what we've always done.
We've always bought and transformed
businesses. We've always used our scale,
our 1.1 trillion of assets under
management, the 400 companies we own
around the world to find best practices
in every geography across every sector
and apply them across our business. AI
is no different. We've created an AI
value creation office that has over 30
people dedicated from across the group
to it who are thinking about real use
cases every day and how to push our
management teams in different companies
to utilize them. We then see what works
in each company and we take the best
practices and we share them across the
organization and make sure that the
whole breadth of our uh portfolio is
benefiting from these learnings. We have
over 200 AI use cases now that are live
across our business using not only all
this capability we've built out but also
the data that we collect across this
platform. As an example, if we find a
pricing opportunity in one business and
we realize AI is a great tool for
pricing, you can bet that the next
quarter 400 businesses across the world
that Brookfield owns is using that
technology in the same way.
to give you a couple of examples to
bring this to life. Clarios, many of you
know this is our uh business that we own
that is the world leader in advanced uh
automotive batteries, low voltage
battery manufacturing and services. We
uh we own a facility that produces a
critical material in the battery making
process. This facility is probably 30
years old and it has equipment that is
over 25 years old. It was running
inefficiently. the throughput was not as
good as it should be and they needed to
run a big capex program. They probably
needed to update a lot of their plant
and equipment. We ran we created a
customized machine learning algorithm to
analyze no joke billions of data points
from the shop floor. Everything from
layout to process flow to uh see how we
could improve throughput and whether we
could do this with some cost savings by
not having to invest as much in the
capex. We were honestly blown away with
the results. We had expected to save a
lot of money. We saved 60% more than we
thought we would save and we increased
the efficiency dramatically. But more
important than that, more important than
the millions of dollars that we saved
and created, I'd say in terms of new
value in that one facility, we're now
going to roll this out across every
Clario facility we have. And then we are
going to roll it out under every single
plant or facility that is comparable or
has applicability of this within BBU and
that's really the magic of what we did
there. Similar coming a little bit
closer to home we have our business SEN
that is our Canadian uh leading Canadian
mortgage insure. We've been able to use
AI in a lot of ways here because, as you
can imagine, Sagun has an insane amount
of proprietary data. We've developed and
trained machine learning models based on
all 25 years of data to basically
increase the ability to automate
underwriting, mortgage underwriting by
about one and a half times. So, we're
much more efficient now underwriting
mortgages. We can turn around faster. We
use those same models to help us predict
home prices in a much better way. We've
simulated thousands of different macro
scenarios, unemployment scenarios,
recession scenarios, house pricing
scenarios to better forecast loss in a
more precise manner. And we've also used
it on the fraud detection side to look
at applications as they come in and
highlight which mortgage applications
may be fraudulent much faster than we
were able to do before with just only
human eyes.
The thing that I really want you to take
away is the businesses we own in BBU,
the businesses that form the backbone of
the global economy, they are not
disrupted by AI, they are propelled by
it. And we as Brookfield are on the
leading edge of being able to handle
that transformation.
It's actually a great segue into my
colleagues uh Ron Khalifa and Doug who
are going to come up and talk about
financial infrastructure and also a
sector the global financial ecosystem
that is crumbling has legacy dated
systems and is modernizing as it goes
from analog to data to digital to AI.
It's a great application that we're
doing within BBU that we're very excited
about. So with that, thank you and I'd
like to hand it over to Ron and Doug.
[Applause]
Hello, my name is Doug Baird. I'm a
managing partner in New York in the
private equity group. I've been
investing in technology and services
businesses for over 20 years. And I
joined Brookfield just about five years
ago as I saw the power of the Brookfield
ecosystem and the differentiation that
it can provide to operationally minded
investors.
Today I'm here to talk to you about
financial services and technology. It's
a space in desperate need of capital.
It's also a space that Brookfield knows
intimately and we believe that we can
use thatformational advantage to drive
significant operating change.
So there's a $4 trillion need in this
market. It's a massive number and and
it's that that money is in order to
ensure that the capital continues to
move seamlessly and smoothly around the
world. But the question is how do we get
here? And the answer is many of these
businesses sit inside very large
financial conglomerates. And so you
think about these parent companies and
they have multiple subsidiaries with
multiple financial services in multiple
geographies. There's a cacophony of
voices begging for capital and the
parent doesn't always get it right and
targeted investment can fix that
problem. But then the parent also tends
to put rules and regulations on each
individual opco which may not make sense
to them. And so by pulling them out, you
can unshackle them from some of the
legacy uh operations that we see. And
and so that's the key. It's it's not
just capital, but it's actually taking
these businesses and unleashing them to
their full potential. And a new
strategic direction is required in order
for that to happen. That includes
digitizing, automating, eliminating a
lot of the leg legacy operations and
procedures they have. Indeed, you
probably need to implement an entirely
new playbook. And then it's about
enhancing and embracing the management
teams so that they can make better
decisions faster
and and you're going to need to move
very quickly in this space. There are we
we pulled out four different areas that
we see massive uh shifts happening in
the market with payments. You see a
secular shift to digital and
fragmentation for merchant acquirers and
all the card issuers
on capital markets. Genai tokenization
distributed ledger technology. Pick your
buzzword. It's impacting capital markets
today. banking technology, legacy
banking technology needs to be
modernized and you have increased
regulation combined with the fact that
end consumers demand a digital
experience.
And then wealth wealth managers today
there's a rise of people utilizing the
product but also an explosion of
opportun of different products that
they're looking to ingest. And so you
multiply that together and it's an
exponential rise in the complexity of
this segment.
So where are we going to look to invest
with these macro forces? Well, it starts
with asset light financial services and
technology. What do we mean by asset
light? What that means is we don't want
to go buy a bank, but we want to buy the
software and services that that bank
uses in order for their daily operation.
It's the stable, sticky, recurring
revenue lines for market leaders. That's
where we get excited because that is
incredibly difficult to rip out and
replace those products.
Then they have we say they thrive in a
regulatory framework. They're not
hamstrung by those regulations and then
access to distribution.
So essentially what we find is very
stable recurring revenue lines which we
can come in as an operationally minded
investor help create step function
change to revenue but also improve
margins at the same time.
And the good news is we've been doing
this. So we've we've invested and
managed over $7 billion in the financial
services and technology space. I pulled
up two recent examples of of investments
we've done. Network Magnati and
Barkclays. We'll go into it uh Ron and I
in in just a minute, but but essentially
what you can see both these businesses
are market leaders, but they both were
in desperate need of new ownership and
new ideas. The sellers saw that and they
worked with us. They chose to work with
us and they did it because they saw that
we were value investors, but it was
defined as the value we're bringing to
the equation.
that allowed us to acquire the
businesses at value based prices and we
ultimately hope will allow us to drive
outsized returns for our investors.
With that, I' I'd like to introduce Sir
Ron Khalifa.
Ron uh is the head of financial
infrastructure and the vice chair of
private equity.
Ron has had an illustrious career prior
to joining Brookfield. He is uh has been
the CEO of world pay for over a decade
global leading payments platform where
he led the divevestature into private
equity and subsequent IPO. Ron also led
the Khalifa review which was a a UK
commission report that understood the
financial services broadly but also
helping dictate where those services
should go in the future.
Ron was a chairman of Network
International prior to Brookfield taking
that business private in 2024.
And Ron also is an independent director
for the Bank of England Court of
Directors. Ron, would you join me on the
stage, please?
[Applause]
So, so Ron, I I spent some time talking
about what I think financial
infrastructure is, but perhaps you could
uh give your perspective as well.
>> Yeah. Um, great to be here. Um, thank
you. Um so look the financial
infrastructure universe comprises of
companies which are providing digital
services. They're providing software
that um to a range of organizations
throughout the banking, insurance,
capital markets arena. They're the
backbone of the global financial economy
and they're quite often as you said the
uh owners are the wrong owners. You know
these are antiquated systems that
they're running. Think about green
screens that are operating in these
large organizations and the consequence
of that is that they just can't move
quickly because what are consumers want?
What are businesses want? They want
seamless digital experiences and as Anuj
talked about earlier these businesses
are still they're still analog
businesses. In other words, they've got
systems where if someone changes
something at this end, you don't
actually know what the consequence is
from technology point of view, what the
implications might be elsewhere. So,
these analog businesses are trying to
become digital. They're trying to get to
data and they're trying to go to AI.
That's the beauty of where we're trying
to take this these businesses. So, we're
not going to be buying banks. We're not
going to be buying insurance companies.
We're not going to be buying um wealth
managers, but we will be pursuing
payments along the lines that Doug you
just talked about. We will look at
technologies which are providing the
backbone for capital markets. We'll look
at wealth management platforms
potentially which are joining up
distributors and they're joining up
banks.
These require large scale capabilities
both in terms of uh financing but also
importantly the operational capability.
The differentiator that we've got here
is the fact that we've got operators who
are running these activities and looking
for these opportun these opportunities.
You said earlier there's a $4 trillion
opportunity. I mean, it's a huge number
in terms of the scheme of things.
>> And and Ron, do you agree? Is now the
time?
>> Um, yeah, now is definitely the time. I
mean, think about it. Consumer
preferences, we're all much more
demanding in the way that we want our
services delivered. We want them done
quickly. We want them done speedily.
These organizations can't provide those
in the at the rate that we might want.
Also, what's happening is that there's a
a trend increasingly away from
globalization to localization
because you need to have data maintained
in your own on soil. Those are the rules
that are now starting to happen across
financial services and as a consequence
of that you've got to rethink the supply
chains. You got to think about the roots
to market in a very very different way.
Also the innovation that's coming
through companies are driving this
change in a significant way and they're
building scalable platforms which are
going to be the future in terms of
activities. You you you put up a couple
of examples earlier about payments. You
know think about payments. We'll talk
maybe a little bit more about them.
You'll see new forms of payments coming
through. We're all using our phones to
pay these. We're using wallets to pay.
We're really starting to challenge the
way that the traditional payment
ecosystem is operating. And obviously
regulation is a huge aspect of that.
Regulation is a friend for these large
organizations simply because it creates
a moat and that moat principally means
that it's a barrier to entry for the
smaller incumbents to get in. So that's
where the opportunities are for us and
it's a perfect time to do this.
>> Right.
>> Doug, you know, look, you're asking me
questions. What about you? You've been
here a lot longer than I have. um talk a
little bit about Brookfield in terms of
why are we the right individuals and
organizations organization to make these
investments.
>> Yeah, for for me it all comes back to
the the Brookfield ecosystem like that
that's the informationational advantage
we have goes back to the the $1.1
trillion of assets under management. So
it's not just cash sitting in a bank. It
it's invested in 300 different portfolio
companies in 30 countries with 250,000
FTEEs. that ecosystem of knowledge is
there and and it's up to you and I to go
and find those nuggets of information
that we can bring to a certain
situation. Then you overlay on top of
that the strategic advisory council that
we've created for financial services and
technology which is with some of the
largest financial institutions and
payment processors in the world. And all
of a sudden, we have the voice of the
customer because we talk to them every
day. And and now, right, it's up to us
to utilize that to find the situations,
the right situations, get conviction
during diligence, and drive the change.
And and and again, we've been doing it.
So, it's, you know, is Brookfield the
right party? Well, we've hopefully by
now we can convince you that that we
are.
>> We definitely are. I can see that. I'm
convinced.
Uh but Ron, maybe talk a little more
about where within financial
infrastructure are you particularly
excited.
>> Yeah, look um the way to maybe think
about that is what are the ingredients
for success in this financial
infrastructure ecosystem. Firstly,
you've got to have businesses that are
going to have scale. Scale drives
product. Scale scale drives volume which
drives productivity. It drives unit cost
and it drives margin. So scale is
absolutely vital in terms of that.
Secondly, you've got to have access to
distribution. I'm a great believer and
you don't want to be starting to have
organizations where you've got no sales
capability, but you've got to have
something as a backbone to start that
with. You can build additional
distribution channels, but you've got to
have something to start with. Thirdly,
technology. These businesses are all
tech enabled, but increasingly, as Anooj
said, these are going to be AI enabled.
AI at the moment is still being used
primarily for cost efficiencies.
increasingly it's going to change to be
much more about revenue and growth and
that's where the world's moving to and
finally regulation is part and parcel of
it. So if you think about scale,
distribution, technology and reggg,
those are the things that going to make
this thing work.
>> You know, just think about, let's talk a
little bit about payments. Um, payments
have evolved significantly. You know, I
quite often say that payments was boring
and it's now moved into the boardroom.
It's a very different dynamic. Before it
was driven by operationally activ uh
people. Now the CEO and the CFO wants to
have a conversation about what the
payments mechanisms are doing for their
business.
We all use debit and credit cards every
day, maybe digital wallets as well, but
I wonder if you realize the complexity
that's associated with payments. Let me
just show you a quick video to help you
understand the many, many activities
that go when you start to tap a
transaction in a coffee shop.
Payments processing operators provide
the critical enablement of digital
payments. We actually like to think of
these payment rails as being similar to
a physical infrastructure asset. First,
a customer initiates a transaction by
swiping or tapping their credit or debit
card or by entering their payment
information through a website or app.
From there, the merchant, usually
through a point of sale, terminal or a
web page, submits the transaction data
to an acquirer.
The acquirer then roots the transaction
to the card scheme, which identifies the
card issuer or bank and exchanges data
between the acquirer and the issuer.
At that point, the issuer receives an
authorization request that includes the
card holder's information and authorizes
the transaction, sending a response back
to the card scheme for processing. The
scheme then processes the transaction
and sends the information back to the
acquirer which in turn sends that
information to the merchant to complete
the transaction.
This typically occurs instantly thanks
to the financial infrastructure behind
the scenes. And now driven by data, the
world is moving fast and towards digital
first across all industries.
You know, it's it's fascinating when you
think about that that those steps are
happening in a nancond. Every day when
you're tapping a card or you're buying
something online, it's going through
that process instantly and constantly.
And there are many parties to that, but
all of them need critical
infrastructure. That is critical
infrastructure because if the retailer
can't accept that payment, they're out
of business.
So we've started to see increasingly
digital first infrastructures coming
through in terms of initially it started
from physical then it moved to desktop
then it's gone to mobile now it's gone
to fully digital first so you got to
rethink the customer engagement process
completely the product delivery and
their infrastructure that goes with it
we're seeing new payment rails coming
through it's no longer just about
Mastercard and Visa there are different
payment rows across the globe and it was
about cash and checks when it moved.
Then it moved to debit and credit cards.
Now it's moved to digital wallets and
biometric payments. Many of you here
will be using fingerprint scanning or
facial recognition as a way to uh unload
and uh uh authorize payments. Consumers
want an increasingly frictionless
payment capability. And you're seeing
these geopolitical forces and
protectionism that I talked about
earlier that are driving these changes
as well. And I think that our
capabilities leave us uniquely well
positioned to help incumbents drive
value by mo modernizing their legacy
infrastructures by partnering with them
by carving out non-core assets for them.
And that's an important aspect because
the examples that you talked about
there, Doug, in terms of network and
Magnati and Barclays, they need help
because they're the wrong owners for
these type of assets.
>> But Ron, does that mean we're just going
to invest in payments?
>> No. That's a good point. Look, this is
beyond payments. This is one example of
financial infrastructure. The reality is
that we're looking at core banking
software that's at the heart of so many
facilities that we experience as
consumers. We're looking at loan
origination capabilities. We're looking
at wealth management platforms. So,
netnet, there's an awful lot of things
here that we can do as an example. Maybe
can you take some of those conceptual
ideas and macro themes and bring it to
specific examples where we could
monetize that that knowledge?
>> Yeah, look, let me use the examples that
you talked about earlier. Um, Network
and Magnati. Um, in 2022, Magnati was a
department
in a bank, the first Abu Dhabi bank. It
was providing these services that you
saw up there, but it was a small player
in relative terms. And last year, late
last year, another organization in the
same market, Network International,
which was a leader in the Middle East
market and Africa, we've combined, we
bought those two businesses, we've
combined those two uh businesses
together, and we've created the number
one payments provider in that region. It
now processes in excess of 60% of all
payments in that region. And by
combining that, we've seen the the the
significance of the t the tailwinds that
are happening in payments across the
piece.
>> Why why would First Abu Dhabi Bank sell
us that asset? Sounds great.
>> Look, you know, when you're in a bank,
what are you focusing on? You're
focusing on savings, you're focusing on
deposits, you're focusing on insurance.
Uh you know, there are some core
products. These type of businesses are
really important, but they require
capital and they never get talked about
at the top of the house. And as a
consequence of that, they need capital
and they need knowhow. So that's the
things that have happened. We created a
you know if you think about our value
creation plan that we've created for
those businesses. We did intense
research in terms of what are the
products that consumers want or
merchants want retailers want. What's
the functionality that they need? It's
not just about processing a payment.
It's about lending facilities as well.
If you're a retailer, you may also want
to borrow money on a short-term basis to
drive your working capital to help you
run your business. That's a product that
we're providing as a consequence of
this. We've expanded the broad uh
customer base that we we've expanded
into a broader base of customers. It was
very focused on enterprise customers,
large customers and mid-market. It
wasn't really doing that much in terms
of small customers. Now that's where the
margin is. So when you start thinking
about those type of activities and the
level of investment that goes into
technology, it's a very different
opportunity and it's a very different
business now as a consequence.
>> And then I I promised I'd talk a little
bit about Barclays earlier. Uh so
Barkclay's another example where the
seller chose us bilateral transaction
and they wanted to work with us and and
they wanted to work with us again
because we could bring capital but I
believe more importantly because of the
operational expertise that we were going
to bring to the equation again value
investors bringing value to the table
and and ultimately we believe it will
result in $200 million increase in IBA
which is fantastic but but that's an
output of creating a business almost
from scratch, right? Carving out a unit
business unit of a business unit. Create
a business from scratch, but but create
a best-in-class company that yes, it's a
marketleading position today, but it
doesn't have market leading product. We
can come in and help be that step change
function.
>> Yeah. Look, I'm in that business is a
good example because the reality is that
every process for a business of that
sort is going to have to be different
than when it's in a bank. So, you're
writing risk policies in a different
way. Every product has to be
repositioned. every process has to be
repositioned. The technology has to be
redone. So it's it's a bit of a startup
with 3,000 people. So it's the largest
startup that you can think about in
terms of what it is. So that's what
these businesses are.
>> Yeah.
>> And also operations is what we do. You
know, it's very easy to talk about,
well, we're great investors, but as as
we said earlier in the earlier
presentations, our DNA is essentially
about operations. You know, Brookfield
was an operator before it was an asset
manager. Um, organizations tend to be
built by operators and the root of our
culture and a root of our opportunity
opportunity is how do we create value?
So, we've written policies and
activities in terms of how do you price,
how do you think about additional
distribution channels, how do you think
about how Salesforce uh teams are are
motivated, how are they managed? So,
that's the way that we're working these
things through. So Ron, I don't want to
overstay our welcome, but but one more
question. As you look at financial
infrastructure going forward, what's
most exciting to you?
Um, look at almost everything, right?
Um, I mean, these opportunities are
immense. You talk about a $4 trillion
opportunity. That's essentially what it
is. These mega trends that we're seeing
are going to continue to accelerate.
They're only going in one direction.
Financial infrastructure is essentially
a new asset class and we're really well
placed to uh to work with it.
Digitization is happening enormously.
You know, these businesses are still
analog businesses trying to move, as I
said, to digital, trying to get to data,
trying to think about how to get to AI.
You know, think about the emergence of
new technologies, stable coins. Many of
us in this room will have heard about
them. Some of you will be playing with
them. But the reality is that this is
going to become a force for good in the
future. So rewiring that whole financial
infrastructure is essentially what's
going to be required and we are
operating partners of choice I think and
have an enormous ability to deploy
capital. We're ready looking forward to
it. Thank you.
Good job.
>> Thank you Ron and Doug. And good
afternoon everyone. Thank you for
joining us. I'm going to cover three
topics today. The first is an update on
our financial performance followed by
our financings and then ending with our
view of value.
So we've had a very busy year and we've
made excellent progress across a number
of different fronts.
We've achieved record ibida of 2.7
billion which is a 16% compounded annual
growth rate over the last 5 years. We've
doubled our ebida margins from 12% to
24%.
And we've increased adjusted EFO per
unit from $3.65
to $6.90.
Last year, I stood here and I told you
that we could generate $2 billion in
proceeds from our capital recycling
initiatives over a 24-month period.
Well, I'm standing here today to tell
you that we exceeded that target and we
did it a lot faster than we thought we
could in just 12 months.
And we feel really confident that we
could do it again. So, we think we could
generate another $2 billion over the
next 24 months. And we've been putting
the cash that we've been generated to
good use. We've used the capital to
further our capital allocation
priorities.
First, we've invested in the growth of
our business.
We gave m back to our shareholders
through our buyback programs
and we've delevered our corporate
borrowings.
So since the beginning of the year we've
invested in three marketleading
businesses and we've deployed $525
million.
In January we closed the transaction and
the investment in Camellex. ChemX is a
leading manufacturer of electric heat
tracing systems. Its products are used
to regulate temperature in pipes in both
industrial and commercial facilities.
The business generates durable cash
flows which are supported by aftermarket
replacement in a really large install
base.
Subsequent to that, we closed the
transaction in Antilia Scientific.
Antilia is a manufacturer of critical
consumables and lab equipment. It has a
broad and sticky customer base and
provides essential products that support
diagnostic and lab processes.
And most recently, we agreed to
privatize First National Financial
Corporation,
a marketleading Canadian residential
multif family mortgage lender. Again,
this business generates durable,
resilient earnings through management of
hundred billion dollars of mortgages.
And we've returned capital to our
owners, specifically $160 million
through the repurchase of shares and
units. We repurchased $3 million 3
million shares of BBC and 4 million
BBULP units since the start of this year
when we launched our buyback program.
And just last month, we renewed our
NCIB, which gives us capacity to buy
back an additional 7 million units and
shares.
And finally, with the proceeds that we
generated, we paid down 1.4 billion in
borrowings from our corporate
facilities. And that puts us in a
position of having record liquidity
today of $2.9 billion.
We've also been focused on being
disciplined in how we're financing our
businesses. At BBU's proportionate
share, we have 122.8 billion of debt
within our operating companies. This
debt is nonreourse to BBU. There's no
cross collateralization across our
operations and there's no near-term
significant near-term maturities. The
weighted average maturity on our debt
portfolio is about six years.
And at the corporate level, we have no
permanent borrowings. Our corporate
facilities are short-term working
capital lines that we use as bridge
between acquisition and disposition
activities.
So just to unpack the 12.8 8 billion. I
wanted to provide a little bit of
insight in how we're financing our
operating companies. Typically, our
businesses are high yield issuers.
Roughly 75%
of the debt that we have within our
operating companies is traded in the
public markets and it's rated by credit
rating agencies. The remainder is
securitization programs at our lending
businesses, project financings in some
of our businesses as well as bank debt.
And over 90% of the rated debt is
typically between B and doubleB which
for the types of businesses that we buy
and for private equity financing is
right down the fairway.
The majority of the traded debt within
the companies is held by a broad
syndicate of investors. When we put this
debt in place, we ensure that we've got
long duration on the debt so that we
have time to implement our operational
plans. Typically, we put debt in place
for five to seven years and we ensure
that there's no maintenance covenants on
this debt.
And when you think about how we approach
our financings, it's really focused on
two things. First and foremost is risk
management and second, value creation.
We have a capital markets team inhouse
that's thinking about this every single
day.
So what do I mean by risk management and
value creation? From a riskmanagement
perspective, we're looking at do we have
the appropriate mix of debt and equity
when we're financing a business. Is it
the right maturity profile that we've
put in place? Do we have flexibility in
the documentation that we have for our
debt so that we can do the things that
we need to do in the business to create
value and implement our value creation
plans. And at the time that we put the
debt in place, we're actively thinking
about how we're going to manage the
interest rate risk within the business
or the operation that's taking on the
debt. And then the other side of the
coin is value creation. So how do we
think about value creation within the
context of financings? What we do is we
make sure that all of our operations are
always ready to be able to access the
markets if there are appropriate
opportunities. And this allows us to
really do two things. First,
opportunistically repric our debt,
lowering the overall cost of capital for
the business as well as increasing the
free cash flow. And the second is
proactively extending maturities of the
debt within our operations.
So all of this has enabled us to
complete 14 transactions and 19 billion
in financings over the last 12 months.
And a number of these refinancings were
done to fund the acquisitions that we've
completed. But a vast majority were done
opportunistically to either repric and
bring down the cost of debt or extend
maturities.
So just a couple of quick examples,
we bought ChemX at the beginning of the
year and within six months of buying
that business, we were able to repric
$900 million of term loans and decrease
the spread on that debt by $50 million.
And what is sorry by 50 basis points and
that 50 basis points translates to $5
million in annual interest savings. Now
on the face of it $5 million of interest
savings may not sound huge but when you
think about it with a focus on value
creation and the cash flow that we're
going to save and the multiple that we
could sell this business at that's 6070
million of value that we've created in
this business. Similarly, we completed a
financing at Clarios. Uh recently, we
refinanced $1.6 billion of unsecured
notes and we replaced it with 1.2
billion of unsecured notes.
We extended the uh maturity on the debt
by five years and we decreased the
spread by 175 basis points which for
Clarios translates to $50 million of
annual run rate savings.
And now moving on to our view of value
which I think a lot of people here came
to here. Um
so we've been focused on executing our
strategy and just as a quick reminder
what is that strategy? We want to buy
highquality businesses at reasonable
values. We want to enhance the
underlying operations of the businesses
that we buy and ultimately we want to
sell these businesses and generate great
returns for our investors.
Our
NAV has doubled over the last five years
from $28 in 2020 to $54 today. And this
is a reflection of both the quality of
the operations that we own and also the
implementation of our value creation
plans.
And if you think about our business
today, we own 20 exceptional businesses
within the portfolio. We've touched on a
couple of them. Clario, Sagun, but some
of the other businesses include
Scientific Games, which is a leading
provider of lottery services to
governments to fund their programs. It's
one of three global players. CDK, which
is a leading software provider to the
auto dealerships. 50% of the auto
dealerships in North America use CDK
software. So today we've got an
exceptional portfolio of companies and
these businesses all support our
assessment of the liquidation value of
BBU which in our view today is $54 per
unit. About 30% of that value or $16
comes from one particular business which
is Clarios. And just as a reminder,
we've already received one and a half
times the capital that we put into
Clarios through ongoing through a
distribution we did earlier this year.
And this is our view of NAV without
taking into effect the fees that we take
pay, but it also doesn't take into
effect future value creation as well as
capital recycling initiatives.
And our view of value of our operations
has been proven out over time through
realizations
or since we've been public since BBU has
been a public company we've monetized
25 investments and generated $8 billion
of proceeds at BBU's share and the $8
billion of proceeds that we generated on
a cumulative basis is in line with the
NAV that we we're holding these assets
at and we've generated returns that are
higher than our targeted returns for BBU
on these monetizations.
And our focus today is on continuing to
execute our strategy and continuing to
compound value within BBU and for all of
our investors.
And with that, I'll bring Anuj back on
stage to summarize our key takeaways as
well as uh for Q&A. Thank you.
[Applause]
So thank you again. Um our goal as we
said is to uh to work uh on increasing
NAV value narrowing and narrowing the
discount of NAV in our stock price. BBU
is the largest participant in what is
Brookfield's highest growth strategy. AI
and digitalization are transforming how
we're able to improve these businesses
and increase margins. And we're going to
keep executing on this strategy and
compounding the value of the business.
That's the key summary of our our
presentation and the things that we hope
you take away.
