Hey, Bruce. Nice to see you again.
>> I have to try to replace Howard Marks.
Howard is indeed a uh hard act to
follow, right? But uh I know you'll try.
Um here's where I'd like to begin.
Bruce, it occurred to me yesterday, or
perhaps it reoccurred to me because it's
something I've known for a long time,
that you've been the CEO of Brookfield
for 23 years.
Here's something to think about. That's
not just longer
than Harvey Schwarz at Carile, Mark
Rowan at Apollo, Joe Bay and Scott
Nutell at KKR, John Wrinkle Reed at TPG,
or Mike Arrigetti of Aries. It's more
than all of them combined.
>> That just obviously means I'm old.
>> Well, my intention, of course, is not to
make you feel old, but that does
make you one of the longest tenur CEOs
in what we now call alternatives or
private assets, the businesses that
Brookfield is in. So may maybe we can
start with a bit of reflection on that
expanse of time. What about this
industry and some people here have been
along for the whole ride which is
incredible but what about this industry
has changed the most since you became
CEO in 2002?
>> Everything. No look I would say the
following. Um the business uh at that
time uh was nent. It was mostly real
estate focused. It was private equity
had started uh raising money and um what
didn't exist was infrastructure and and
and largecale private equity and all the
other businesses that we're in today and
and obviously private credit and um I
think the it was it there was never a
breakthrough.
Um, but every single year for 25 years,
every single year for 25 years, cuz it's
been longer since from before when I was
CEO of course, every single year for 25
years, more investors
understood the fundamentals of why you
should invest in private assets and
leave aside whether it's private equity,
alternatives, uh, uh, etc.,
infrastructure, real estate. Um, private
assets uh take away the confusion of the
stock markets and ensure that you don't
get distracted on a day-to-day basis by
volatility that means virtually nothing
to your investment. Uh, you get paid for
some form of illquidity, so you earn a
higher return. And you can the
businesses that you buy or that somebody
buys for you can act in ways that are
only fundamental decisions.
Companies in the stock market often have
to make decisions which are not
fundamental investment decisions. They
have to play to the market. And in
private markets, um, those three things
increasingly every single year became
evident to investors around the world.
And and it was obvious those three
things made sense. But it just takes
time for it to it takes time for people
to especially institutional investors to
understand that, get their committees
comfortable with it, get their board
comfortable with it, make allocations to
it. and and over that period of time
some there were ups and downs in the
market and and what happened is private
assets performed unbelievably well and
now we can look back infrastructure is
maybe the best example. There is no
better asset class that's performed um
broadly infrastructure, renewables, etc.
than than infrastructure and it's gone
through cycles. It's gone through um
major crises and it's performed and that
that I think that's that's what
happened. Um they got into it, they got
comfortable and it's performed. And if
and that's really all you need in
investment management. um you need
performance and and what's we can
probably talk about this later but
what's happened is we're not even in the
early we're not even started yet because
institutions are still low allocations
to what they should have like on average
they're probably 151 5% some are 50 but
on average they're 15 and it should be
30 40 50 in many of these institutions
um and and retail wealth and individuals
are zero
quote unquote zero. We
>> we will be getting to some of that. Um
Brookfield itself has undergone
something of a transformation over that
period of time too, not just in terms of
what it invests, which you touched on a
moment ago, but structurally as well.
What would you what in your mind again
you're the guy who's been at the
controls for that long. What do you
think of as the biggest and most
significant changes that this firm has
undergone?
the uh look we started as just doing
these things ourself
and the asset management business
>> quietly I should add with not without a
lot of right
>> but the asset management business we
created was merely the way we looked at
it it was merely we wanted to do the
things we did but expand the uh
geography of doing it and do it in
larger ways and one can either own 100%
of something themselves or they can own
5 or 10% of something and have a lot of
friends and that's That's what the asset
management business facilitated with our
capital and um of course now looking
back 25 years later it created an
incredible business in itself as NASA
management business but but when we
started it was merely just to to
diversify and globalize and bring
capital into the business without taking
undue risks and have partners and uh and
and I think maybe the most important
thing that we have that differentiates
us from some others is that we think
that way still about our business
investments. These are investments that
we make
with part of our capital and that we
have partners with us and that's
different than raise some money and
invest it for other people and uh and
that that I think pervades what we have
and maybe I'm going to turn the question
around. Maybe the most important thing
that we have is still that culture
>> within the organization to um to ensure
that we um that we that we create that
we keep that ethos.
>> I could I suppose ask you about your own
transformation, but the truth of the
matter is that u you haven't at least
physically changed that much. I went
back and looked at some photographs from
Bruce in the early 2000s and apart from
maybe an ever so slight change in hair
color, you look identical today to you
can check trust me on this or check it
yourself. Um, so I I'll phrase the
question differently. What are the most
important lessons that you as the CEO
have learned over that almost quarter
century?
I think I knew before
I always was a value type investor and I
think I knew before it was really
important to compound wealth over long
periods of time. But I I think in
the last 35 years, I'd say the most
important thing that has been
continuously
emphasized to me and is more ingrained
in me today than it was 35 years ago is
that long-term wealth creation is about
earning
reasonable returns over very long
periods of time. find good businesses,
good people, good investments, keep
them, and just keep compounding. And uh
and I think that's more important today.
And I'd say that's probably the thing
that's ingrained. It's very very hard.
And I I think what it is is if you're
outside of a company looking in, you see
it, you see a stock. If you're inside of
a company looking out,
you own the business. You don't really
care what the stock does. And uh and I
think that's probably the biggest that
that that's that's something that's
really important for people to
understand when they're making
investments because you just own a
fractional portion of a business.
It's useful to have you here and uh
extract, if you will, a global view. You
recently described what Brookfield does
as one, identifying big global trends
that are going to affect the economies
and the industries in which you operate.
two, package them into products that can
attract capital and three, deploy that
capital quickly and at scale. So for the
benefit of those who might not have
either heard that or understand where
you see these opportunities, what are
the biggest most important global trends
that you're investing behind today?
>> I kind of like the way you said that. We
maybe you should do that for me next
time. The uh those are good way to
describe what we do. Um I I there are
there are a few trends that are
happening in the world today um that are
almost unlike anything that's occurred
in the investment world um ever. That
sounds that sounds like a dramatic
statement,
>> but uh the amount of money that's going
into the power sector to uh both make it
cleaner, but but just sheer building
power is so big and and and I'm Connor
and the team will talk about the
renewables business afterwards, but but
we're talking
fives and tens of trillions and and this
is like unlike anything. And we were
flat power usage for a long long time
and now it's going to double in most
countries of the world and that is a
dramatic thing that's going on. It's
going to affect everyone and everything
that's going on in the world. on on top
that was happening and on top of that
that assumed cloud adoption was going to
be was going to be increasing and now
with artificial intelligence stacked on
top of that the amount of money being
put into I'll call it the end output is
compute capacity
um wherever you're investing along the
compendium
uh again is is
5 tens of trill billions and uh this is
being funded by governments, it's being
funded by hyperscalers, it's being
funded by um uh sponsors. Um but there's
never there's never been an investment
trend like we like these are 50 these
data center AI factories that we're
building are 50 billion a piece and and
like an office building in New York
City, they're large. We used to think
they were large and they're a billion or
two. Not to shrug at a billion or two,
but but these are this is the scale of
what's going on is it's it's
unprecedented. The good news is it's
being funded by governments. It's being
backed
>> by governments
and the largest most successful
companies on the planet, the technology
titans. And that's really important when
you're dealing with these sums of money.
I'm going to come back to that in a
moment. Um, but in the interim, this is
a huge opportunity. I think Brookfield
has sized it at
in the order of 7 trillion. I'm speaking
of AI alone, not the power buildout.
Uh, and I can understand why it excites
you on any number of levels. It excites
and maybe at the same time scares all of
us.
There's so much there for a firm like
yours, whether it's building AI
factories or the compute infrastructure
or the power supplies and the
transmission and all of the other stuff
that comes along with it. Is there
anywhere, you know, in that you
described it as a continuum, you know,
you that excites you most you you think
is the best single best investment
opportunity for a company like this? the
um I I'd say the advantage uh we have is
our we've been doing this a long time.
We've been building power plants a long
time. We've built data centers a long
time. We've been developing real estate
a long time. And the combination of
those three things is really what this
is. And fortuitously we ended up at the
intersection
of what really matters today.
What what is the most difficult thing is
this is the first innings of a very long
15 20 year buildout and um nobody has
done this before. Nobody. And like we've
we have all the pieces but nobody has
produced compute capacity for in the
scale that we're going to soon uh do it.
And we're best we're as we're as well
suited as almost anyone in the world to
do it because of our access to all those
skills and capital. But but we're in the
early stages of it and execution is so
so important because we're dealing with
the global best and countries and this
is really serious and uh so the biggest
worry biggest excitement and the biggest
worry is execution like everyone can uh
say they're going to get into this and
it's just not easy. Um so we have all we
have everything that you can do it but
um
the execution of these things is really
really important.
>> So my boss my ultimate boss Mike
Bloomberg is fond of of saying to people
when they're they're just about to go
and do a big job.
I'll paraphrase. Don't screw it up. Um
how do you not screw it up?
You know, look, I the good news is we
have 3,000 people that build power
plants for us. We have a huge data
center businesses. Uh we've been raising
capital in this way for a long period of
time. We have the relationships with
with all the hyperscalers and many of
the governments. Um it's just knitting
all that stuff together. And uh I would
just say
we are going to make small mistakes and
we're always trying to make we're not
trying to make small mistakes. Uh we'd
like to make none, but we allow small
mistakes as you go along. And what we
can't do is ever commit ourselves to do
something that's um that's uh could
damage oursel in the long term for
short-term profit or success. And
probably the one thing there are are
many others and many of the things we do
you'll see press releases out of
because they're interested in short-term
success. what we're interested in is
making a lot of money over the long
term, not making a little amount of
money in the short term. And uh and I
think that's probably the single
difference. So, we're being very careful
and methodical because our relationships
with the global best are really, really
important and we need to get it right
when we deal with them. You're
absolutely right of course that no one
has ever tried to build computing power
at this scale and uh so broadly
geographically ever before. However, we
have seen something similarish. We were
both around in the 1990s for the telecom
boom and the level of enthusiasm
and this concentration of hot stocks as
some of you here may recall not to
mention the hockey stick charts from
people like George Gilder at the time
were similar to what we're going through
today with AI but you and I were both
also around goes without saying because
he was the CEO in 2002 um in the early
2000s right and the subsequent bust
of the telecom boom. There's so much
money chasing this opportunity, deals
backed, as you pointed out, by checks in
the hundreds of millions of dollars
seemingly every week. Could this too not
prove to be an overbuild, not not a
flawed thesis, but an overbuild that
ends in tears for the people who
financed it?
Um
so
the amount of need is so large and the
execution
of getting it done is so hard.
There is a moat around the ability to
develop. Many of the things are press
releases. They will not get developed.
the um it's it's not easy
to get these sites up and running, get
them connected to fiber, get the power,
um put in chips and and make compute
capacity. So the first point I make is
this is not that easy to do and
therefore there will be um lots built
but not as much as you think.
Secondly, that um
I'll call it the global crossing era was
building fiber around the world.
>> The single difference is really
important to make. They were building
fiber with no contracts
and they were building it on the hope
that they were going to get customers to
fill the transmission lines because the
hope the it was there was an endless
amount of success coming.
The difference today
is this is being led by seven technology
7 8 10 technology companies that on
average have a $1.5 trillion market cap.
This is being led by
credits as large as comp as countries.
In fact, the second component of it is
countries. So it's being led by
countries. our sovereign sovereign AI
strategy and technology tightens it for
us it is all contracted
therefore we there is no there's always
risk but but the risk you just mentioned
is not going to happen now are there
people out there that will make mistakes
of course
>> there will where there's a gold rush
coming
there are always people that don't know
how to execute will get into it and will
make mistakes and blow their feet off.
And there are people that will take
counterparties or contracts which won't
work out to be what they thought and
they'll get caught
in Warren Buffett's saying as the tide
goes out. So there we're not going this
way all the way. It's always like this.
That's the new backbone of a global
economy. And as you know 50% of the
things that we have today didn't exist
as an investable asset class 20 years
ago. That's an amazing statement in
itself. And this this continue will
continue to transform because it changes
every day. A very different kind of
trend in private assets is what we might
call retailization. The growing flow of
retail capital into alternatives. Some
of that is thanks to regulatory change.
Some of that is thanks in no small part
to good marketing. Um Brookfield for
sure was an early leader in the
retailization trend because it raised
permanent capital right in the form of
publicly traded equity vehicles when so
far as I can recall nothing like it
existed.
>> We have three we have three here today.
>> So given that experience and the
knowledge you've acquired as a result
how do you see that retailization trend
playing out in the private asset
industry? So, so uh
I think the next 20 years will be just
like the last 20 in institutional
accounts. Every single year for the next
20 years
more in retail money more more just more
more uh individual investors will
understand the benefits of private
assets and they will start to allocate
private m part of their money into
private assets. I'm quite confident that
if they do it with people that are good,
uh, they'll have success
and the next year, three years later,
they'll allocate more. And 20 years from
now, we'll look back and institutional
or private individual accounts will have
30% of their assets in private markets.
Um, some will be 80, some will be 50,
some will be 20, some may be zero. Um
but uh I think on balance it'll be it'll
be 25% and it should be more but I it
just takes time but but at 20 trillion
dollars we can't properly the industry
can't properly manage that amount of
capital anyway.
Therefore, um what it does is just
there's we still have a backdrop of uh
sovereign institutional accounts
allocating to privates. Uh insurance
increasingly is allocating to privates
and retail wealth is the next um level
just because it makes sense. I go back
to the three things I said at the start.
It just makes sense and it's going to
happen and all we have to do why they
can't do it today is they they're not
packaged to be able to fit into the
structures of retail wealth and we just
need to take the exact things that we do
for institutional clients package them
so that they can get fed into
>> 401ks retail wealth channels etc. and
we've been doing it now with high netw
worth wealth and and and increasingly we
just need to to move further down. One
of the uh I guess you could call it
obvious risks in private assets broadly
speaking is relative to the public
markets a lack of liquidity and that's
an issue in private equity today. Most
PE managers and I suppose you folks are
going to hear a little bit more about
this. I gather Brookfield is a notable
exception. Most PE managers are having a
rather tough time selling portfolio
companies and they're resorting to all
kinds of financial engineering as a
result.
Howard, who I'm sad is not with us
because this would have been a whole lot
of fun. As you probably know, Bruce has
never been a fan of financial
engineering, the subscription lines and
the continuation vehicles that are so
prevalent in private equity today, as he
likes to say, you can't eat irr. Um, are
you similarly concerned about this
amount of financial engineering and what
kind of an impact is it going to have on
PE longer term?
So, so I I think just to let table table
set the table is if somebody can't uh
sell an investment, leave aside bad
businesses and I'm not talking about
those people that had growth investments
or tech investments and they made a
mistake. Forget those. I'm talking about
good businesses. If you have a good
business
and you don't sell it and you're not
returning capital, I know institutional
account X wanted some money back. They
expected some money back, but it's still
compounding away probably at 14%. Or 15
or 17 or 12 or 11 or nine. So, it's
still going up in value. Remember, all
they're doing is trying to invest. So, I
don't we shouldn't get so excited that
people aren't selling things. the value
is still in those businesses and they're
still getting better and they're still
enhancing value every single day. So,
I'm not I I don't get too stressed about
that.
>> Second point is yes, institutional
accounts want money back because they
that's their model. They need money back
to fund other commitments. And those
that are
have business models like ours that have
access to many sources of capital, have
relationships more broadly are big, are
going to win because we can do things
that most others cannot and we don't
have to resort to all the things you
talked about. I I but on balance I don't
think there's that there's not bad
things going on in the industry. there's
just there just haven't people haven't
returned capital and eventually the IPO
markets will come back and and for those
that invest in good businesses the money
will start to flow again and it's
happening already for those that invest
in bad businesses the record's going to
be terrible and they're going to be out
of business and they're I'm sure I don't
know how
>> it's just a Darwinian outcome
>> yeah there's how many private equity
firms are in the US 7,000 lots
>> 10 10,000 there'll be
>> more private equity firms than banks now
>> there should be 4,000 less
Uh, I don't know there like like the
fact is everyone thought this was
simple. Let's start a private equity
fund. I'm going to leave XYZ firm and
I'm going to start my own. It's not
easy. This is hard work. And uh and and
and I would just say there's it always
goes through periods of time when money
is free. Everyone thinks they're a
genius and they're going to go and
invest and start a private equity firm.
But what happens in in tougher times is
things consolidate. And that's every
single industry. And that's just what's
going on in private markets today.
>> I said it was a shame that Howard isn't
with us. And it's a shame for other
reasons, too, because Howard knows so
much about credit. But now that you and
Howard have been in business together
for six plus years, you know a few
things about credit, too. Um, in fact,
the last time that the three of us sat
on stage together was the day that you
announced the Oak Tree acquisition in
March of 2019.
>> Um, feels like a lifetime ago, of
course, because it was before the
pandemic.
As we all know, credit in particular,
private credit has exploded since that
acquisition. Uh
the, you know, I remember very
distinctly when we had that conversation
in 2019, you and Howard both said
categorically that this was not about
either Brookfield getting a good deal or
Oak Tree trying to maximize
uh you know, its return to its own
partners, to its shareholders.
But boy, $5 billion for 61% of Oak Tree
sure looks like a bargain in retrospect
for Brookfield shareholders. Last year
it cost Black Rockck $30 billion to buy
HPS.
Blue Owl has a market cap of 26 billion
today. Aries is worth 54 billion. I'm
just curious if you were buying 61% of
Oak Tree today, knowing what a business
it has become, what do you figure it
would cost?
>> So let's talk about the credit business.
I uh
>> the uh the partnership that we struck uh
with Oak Tree um has been
got us into a whole bunch of things that
we could have never done ourselves. We
were we were probably also the first
purchaser quote unquote of a investment
management business
>> big credit platform.
>> Yeah. Like no uh there was none had been
done and we came up with a pretty unique
model to do it.
um that's why they came on the team to
do it. They've still been partners with
us and benefited from that. Remember, we
didn't take the partner partners out.
What we took was the public out which it
traded poorly in the market at the time
and probably as a as their business.
>> Well, returns were, you know, yields
were so low, it was hard.
>> It probably would trade that way today,
but they've been all the shareholders
that have been in the business have been
enormously benefited with us
>> uh along the way. What what it did for
us though is it um it widened our
aperture in credit in a very significant
way and now we're one of the few in the
world that can offer many many products
through our different platforms and it
taught us I I think we learned a lot on
what we can do and what we shouldn't do
with buying other managers and we've
added on like we bought Castle Lake um
>> asset back finance lender recently and
um partnered with their team as well.
And and I think we've learned to figure
out how to do that. And uh but but
there's no doubt the industry continues
to grow and um and be successful.
