[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale.
On the heels of our 2025 Brookfield
Investor Day, Nick Goodman, CFO of
Brookfield Corporation, and Sachin Shaw,
CEO of Brookfield Wealth Solutions, join
us to share key takeaways and what's on
the horizon. Here's our conversation.
Satcha and Nick, it's great to have you
here with us today to bring some of the
main takeaways from the day to our
audience. What are some of the main
points you'd like our investors to take
away from investor day this year?
>> The punchline for Brookville Corporation
really was that the outlook for the
business and the earnings and the growth
is incredibly strong. We delivered 22%
annual growth in earnings over the last
5 years and we believe we have all the
foundations in place to replicate or
exceed that going forward. Our plans
show earnings growth of 25% on an
annualized basis over the next five
years. And that really comes from a
couple of key areas. It comes from us
participating in the growth of our core
businesses, the growth of Brookfield
Asset Management, which was covered in
their own presentation. Um, and you can
listen to that in the summary. It's the
growth in the wealth solutions business
which Satchin can talk about its
increasing position as an investment-led
insurance business that will allow us to
sustain the growth of the corporation
for the long term delivering excellent
returns on equity without changing the
risk profile of the overall business. It
comes from the strength of our operating
companies and I'd say the one that's
poised for the strongest contribution
over the next 5 years just given the
cycle we've been through in the last few
years is the real estate business with
the operating fundamentals really
turning cap rates coming down liquidity
coming back to the market and a real
step up in transaction activity and
that's really favoring the highest
quality assets which is where we are
positioned in the market and then the
other two elements I think that are
going to be material contributions to
our business the first is carried
interest which is really at an
inflection point for Brookfield and will
generate significant cash flow over the
next 5 years. And then our capital
allocation and capital allocation is
very important to Brookfield. It's a
methodology and approach that we've
honed since our inception of surfacing
cash and capital up to the corporation
where we have a unique lens on the
relative growth opportunities across the
business. We can allocate capital to the
highest and best use at any point in a
cycle. And as we do that over the next 5
years, we hope to replicate what we've
done historically. look back to the
business we scaled and well solutions.
The share repurchases we've done at deep
value and we expect to continue to do
that and so when you put all those
pieces together we think it leaves us
very well positioned to continue the
growth trajectory of the business.
>> Nick you touched on investment insurance
sachin can you help us understand what
does that mean? What are we saying when
we say investmentled? Sure. As we
described earlier this week, you know,
we at Brookfield have spent the last 25
years building out the ability to invest
into the global economy into assets and
businesses that underpin global growth
and some of the largest themes in the
world like renewable energy, real
estate, global infrastructure, AI now.
And these businesses and assets that
we've invested in to create long streams
of income that grow over time, inflation
protected and have tremendous scarcity
value. And what we've done is really tap
into that to support our wealth
solutions business where predominantly
we serve people who are getting close to
retirement age. And what they need are
long streams of income to support their
life postemployment and where they don't
benefit from defined benefit pension
plans or the necessary government
support schemes. And therefore they have
to invest a little bit of their money to
provide income during those retirement
years. And we've been able to match up
that skill in investing with the ability
to raise money from retirees or people
approaching retirement. And Brookfield
Wealth Solutions sits in the middle of
all of that facilitating that activity.
And Sachin, so I was going to add, is it
fair to say the founding principle of
that business is really about delivering
strong returns on equity. So it means
that the growth of the business is led
by the investment opportunity we see in
front of us with discipline which means
we can scale without sacrificing returns
which really means we can scale a
business which will be durable through
cycles and then we'll have effectively
really strong alignment with policy
holders cuz we are all seeking the same
outcome. That's exactly right Nick. We
have been clear from the outset that
this is a business that can compound
capital at a mid- teens rate for many
decades to come. Therefore, the
investments we make, the returns they
generate, and our ability to pass along
streams of income to retirees all are
done with a view of can this generate a
mid- teens compounded return for
Brookfield. And we're not chasing
growth. We are building a business that
can be profitable through the cycle,
>> which means that you will only be
growing when you see the investment
opportunity. It's not growth for growth
sake. It's growth led by returns and
investing.
>> That's correct. And if you look at most
traditional insurance companies, Nick,
many of them are using leverage as a
form of capital to enhance their
returns. And we've gone the other way.
We're actually driving leverage down and
pursuing great investments that are
sourced by Brookfield that can actually
enhance returns. We might still deliver
the same net return that mid- teens
return on equity as a traditional
insurer, but we're going to use a lot
less leverage to do so. And therefore,
we think the earnings quality that comes
out of this business is much higher.
Sachin, how do we think about policyh
holders in all of this?
>> We think it has multiple benefits to
policyh holders. First and foremost, I
just want to remind everybody that this
business we've built out at Brookfield
Wealth Solutions has been entirely
funded by Brookfield Capital. We have no
third party capital in the business.
We're not bringing client capital into
it. And that's an important point
because our capital is perpetual and our
obligations to policy holders are long.
So we sit side by side with policyh
holders in complete alignment and their
success leads to our success and
therefore we never have to worry about
whether we are at odds with each other.
Number two is and as I said earlier
we're looking at investment returns to
drive the total compounding of capital
in the business not leverage and that
means you have a safer balance sheet
that underpins policyh holder
liabilities. If we use less leverage in
this business, which we do today and
which will actually decrease over time,
policyh holders have more capital
supporting their annuities and that's
good for them and it gives our business
more financial strength to deliver the
promises we make. And then third, I'd
say given that we are investment and we
can generate better returns through the
areas of expertise we have at
Brookfield, the hard asset investing
capabilities we have, it means we can
actually offer more creative products to
policy holders. So retirees have more
competition, better product set, and
more to choose from as they plan out
their retirement. And all of that
ultimately is a benefit to policy
holders. It's a lot like how we've just
built Brookfield over 120 plus years.
Conservative capitalization, investing
into the things we're good at,
generating outsized returns while taking
moderate risk with our own capital.
We're just applying our learnings.
>> It's the same playbook, Nick. It's the
playbook we've been a part of for many
decades. You and I. Nick, one of the
things you mentioned earlier is real
estate and how that's contributing to
our way forward. Tell us a little bit
more about that.
>> Sure. I think it all comes back to the
same principles which is we have a deep
investment and operating capability in
real assets and the investment horizon
is long and we form a view on assets or
markets we want to be invested in and we
invest when we see value and then we use
our operating expertise to generate and
create that value through cycles and we
take a long-term view and we know real
estate which is a prime example is a
cyclical market. It's been through many
cycles in the past. They all feel
different, but they all pass. That much
we know. And real estate has for sure
been through a cycle. And retail and
office have been the poster children for
this cycle. But our view was if you own
the best assets in the best markets,
then those assets will thrive through a
cycle. And it's different to our
infrastructure and renewable power
assets. When you see inflation, you get
an immediate impact to your revenue
stream through their regulatory tariffs
or through their contracts. Real estate
takes time, but it plays out in the end
because for the last 5 years, there has
been very little to no supply being
added to major markets. Yet, demand has
grown in the background. Well, it hasn't
grown from necessarily least demand for
the first 3 years, but people were
adding employees. And now that people
are back in malls, back to work, back in
the office, there is a shortage of
space. And that is leading to demand for
the highest quality space that we
honestly I don't think we've seen
before. We are consistently signing
record leases around the world. This is
not just New York. This is around the
world. So the operating fundamentals are
very strong. Sentiment without doubt has
shifted. You can see that in the tone
and the conversations we're having. And
the capital markets are back. We are
financing now a very attractive rates
for office for retail around the world.
And that is going to lead to in our view
significant step up in transaction
activity over the next 5 years over our
plan period for sure. And we think
that's going to be a catalyst for
earnings. But again, this is consistent
with our playbook. This is not a
surprise to us. We were very stubborn in
our views through the last 5 years,
which might have been contrarian to
many. But we see it playing out. We
think it's going to be very additive.
And I just say as a general comment,
transaction activity more broadly has
obviously been muted up until maybe 12
months ago. We've seen that step up
significantly and that is very helpful
for the whole organization. Capital
recycle, capital will flow and that's
very additive to the franchise.
>> So we've covered a lot of ground with
both of you. What are you most excited
about?
>> What I'm always excited about at
Brookfield is our ability to evolve. We
are now capturing opportunities in some
of the biggest themes on the planet. AI,
aging populations, yet sticking true to
what we've always been good at, hard
asset investing, low levels of leverage,
strong capital base, and really a long
runway of growth. So I think that unique
blend of being true to who we always
have been yet evolving with the world
around us and having decades of growth
in front of us is what I'm excited
about.
>> And just drawing on what Sachin said
when I look across the three businesses,
the core businesses, asset management,
wealth, and our operating businesses. We
have three tremendous platforms in place
with really strong earnings power and I
think the foundations are in place to
continue our growth trajectory. It's
really exciting to see where we can go
next. So, I think stay tuned. I think we
have great things ahead of us.
>> Thank you both for joining us today. It
was great to have you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks, including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation.
