Microstrategy, the company that holds
the most Bitcoin in the world and has
always done nothing but buy and
accumulate it, has just communicated and
announced that they will probably
sell some.
Michael Sailor, the founder of Microstratégie, now stratégie d'ailleurs, has always communicated by
explaining that he will never sell, that he
will accumulate, that he will buy more
or less, more or less quickly, but that he will
never sell his stock of
Bitcoin.  It has been one of the major
catalysts that in the last 5
years has done nothing but
systematically buy Bitcoin.  Regardless of
its price, regardless of how that
price evolves, whether people
turn their backs on it or not.  So seeing
this company announce that it was
probably going to sell should have shaken
the markets much more.  Admittedly, social media users
were disappointed.  In the
hours that followed, Microstrategy
lost more than 4% on the stock market, but Bitcoin only
lost a few hundred
dollars.  Not much movement, a
lot of confusion, a huge amount of
criticism and mockery of the
change in discourse which is
quite different from the words
the company had used until then.  And while
it is being heavily criticized on social
media, this announcement
may be much smarter than it
seems.  By digging into the fine
print and looking at the various
interviews and communications from
the company, it is a
well-considered decision that says a lot about
the company and about a change of direction
that is deeper than it seems.
In this video, we'll spend 30
seconds on what microstrategy is
and on the army of investment funds
that have risen up against them and are betting
on their demise and the fall
of the stock.  But above all, we're going to come back
to this announcement, everything
behind it and the objective
the company has in communicating in this
way.  And I think you'll
find this more interesting than what
you've heard so far on social
media.
Well, I've already made two videos on
Microstrategy, so I'll obviously let you
go and check them out if you
want the background, but to put it
very simply, it's one of the companies
that is accumulating the most Bitcoin
today, 818,000 to date.  And it's a
company that is listed on the stock exchange and that
raises debt.  This means that
investors will lend it
money and it will use this leverage
of debt only for the company to
buy and accumulate more and more
Bitcoin.  Obviously, it can be a
virtuous circle when the company is becoming
more and more solid, when Bitcoin
appreciates, as its cash flow is more
robust, it has more ease in raising
money and issuing debt and
it can still buy more and more
.  Conversely, as you will have understood,
it is a circle that can quickly become
vicious if the company no longer has enough
money to repay its borrowers
and if at that moment it has to sell
Bitcoin, therefore its reserve, by selling
it lowers the price, which
makes it even more
indebted and that is where the
vicious circle can accelerate and become
dangerous very quickly.  It's a
kind of Bitcoin on steroids, a
kind of leverage that allows you to be exposed
to Bitcoin even more strongly.  The
first video explains the details
of these mechanisms.  The second video
explains the risk this
company faced at the beginning of the year, but
it mainly talks about the
investment funds that ganged up
against it and started
shorting its stock.  funds that have
started to bet that indeed at
some point the company which is the
largest buyer of Bitcoin in the world
might have to
become a seller by force.  And if she sells out of
necessity to repay her loans, she
might become the biggest
seller of Bitcoin and therefore the first
reason for a panic crisis that would
put crazy selling pressure on
the price of Bitcoin and cause
its value to fall very quickly.  Although very
volatile and although it has lost a
lot of value, almost 60% since
its stock peak at
$457, the company is maintaining
its trajectory for the moment.  Its stock price
fell as low as $100 per share but currently stands at
around
$185-190.
So what has changed
and what is driving them to
communicate in this way?  First,
their performance in the first quarter of 2026.
While Bitcoin has lost a lot of value,
leaving $120,000 and
falling to $60,000.  While
most companies, and there
are many of them, follow Microstratégie
and want to accumulate
Bitcoin too, very few of them have had
the cash flow to
continue buying it during this
period.  But Microstrategy had it.
She raised more and more debt and
she bought more and more Bitcoin.
Bitcoin in 90 days represents
$7.3 billion.  They even had
a record week where they accumulated
over 34,000 Bitcoin, $2.4 billion
in just a few days.   It had
become a ritual.  Michael Sailor
posted almost every Monday "think
bigger, think even bigger"
detailing the new
buy positions and new
Bitcoin stocks that the company had just
acquired.  Accounting result for the
quarter: a loss of $2.5 billion
.  net.  But be aware, these are
net unrealized losses.  What I mean by that
is a loss on
paper.  This is the difference, for example,
between an apartment that you
bought which has lost 20% of its
value but which you do not intend to
resell, and an apartment which has lost
value and which you will resell
tomorrow.  You will therefore record and
collect this loss relative to
your purchase price.  Now, when we
zoom out a little more, what we need to
understand is that out of the
total number of Bitcoins that the company
owns, 818,000, it has an average purchase cost
of $75,500.  That is to say, as
I speak to you, with
Bitcoin at $80,000 per unit, she is
still making money on
her entire position.  However, it should be noted
that if she were to
quickly sell off all her stock, she would
probably cause Bitcoin to collapse.
And by selling the first ones, she
would lose a lot of value on the
last ones she would sell due to the
low liquidity of the market.  But that's
another topic.  The cumulative cost of
all Bitcoin purchased by
Microstrategy amounts to more than
$62 billion.  That's more than the
annual budget of the French army.  To give
you an idea, the
first question we ask ourselves at that
point is, why aren't they
bankrupt?  Well, firstly,
because the company has
cash reserves.  They still have over
$2.25 billion in reserve, and I do mean
dollars.  Today it has
a debt of just over 8
billion, but it finds itself with
assets to back it up.  She has bitcoins
that have value, she has a stock and
it's worth over 60 billion dollars.
If we calculate the ratio, the company has
$8 of assets for every $1 of debt.
As their financial director said
on social media, the real risk for
them, the maximum risk, is if Bitcoin were to
fall below $7300 at that
time and only at that time,
they would have more debt than assets
and therefore more ability to repay them.
But Microstratégie is always moving faster
.  Microstratégie works magic,
raising ever more debt-free money
to be able to buy Bitcoin.  And that's where they
introduced a product
that changes everything, STRC.
When the company needs to raise
funds, it issues new
shares, preferred shares,
those famous STRCs.  But when
investors invest in these
preferred shares, while
Microstratégie uses this fresh money
to buy Bitcoin, there is a
trade-off.  Today,
Microstratégie pays 11.5% per year
cash repayment on this security.  In
other words, for $1 billion
borrowed through STRC,
Microstrategy must pay $150 million in
return to the investors who
lent that money.  There is a slight
difference compared to issuing
pure and simple debt such as bonds,
since the investor takes a little more
risk and depends on the
financial health of the company to obtain
repayment and interest.  To
put it simply, it pays very well,
yes, but if there is a
financial problem, these investors are not given
priority like all the other
creditors of the company.  So, it's still
a
particularly attractive return.  As a reminder,
the Livret A savings account in France gives 1.5%
interest.  In the United States,
risk-free investments are at 2, 3 or even
4%, but 11.5% is particularly
important.  Launched in July 2025,
the original interest paid was 9%
per year.  It has since evolved to 10, 11 and
11 and a half recently.  In 7 months, the
interest rate has seen this
consecutive increase.  The sign that when a
company has to pay ever-increasing
interest to attract fresh money
and new investors is that
trust is starting to become expensive.   The
more doubts there are for
investors, the more the return needs to be increased,
and therefore the more attractive it
might be for investors to
subscribe to this product.  As a result
, 3 million
American households invested in this product
in 8 months.  It is distributed by Schwab,
Fidelity, Robin Hood or even Venguard,
who, as a little joke, refuses to
sell Bitcoin directly to its
customers.  But STRC is fine.  In total,
they raised
$8.5 billion.  In April, they
even broke a record and raised
over a billion in just a few days.
So, everything seems to be going well.
The company has money, it manages
to refinance itself, it can always
buy more Bitcoin.  But when she
pays back, where does the money come from?  And that's where
the calculation gets interesting.
When she has to repay her 11.5%,
she has three pockets of liquidity to
draw from.  First, it
can draw on its reserves.  It has
2.25 billion.  That's what it's for.  She can
use part of her cash reserve
to repay the interest that is
paid every month.  The second source of income is the
company's revenue.
Historically, Microstratégie had an
activity.  It sells
software solutions and generates revenue.
It generates approximately $500 million
per year.  This is not enough,
but it currently represents
approximately one-third of what it
owes annually.  And the
problem lies with the third pocket of
liquidity.  It can reissue
new STRC shares and therefore
refinance itself, roll over its debt, borrow from
new investors to
repay the old ones.  And that's where
the mechanism, as you might suspect,
starts to bother some people.
When the old guard starts getting
paid with the new guard's money, Peter
Chief calls it a Ponzi scheme.
So be careful, obviously when
Bitcoin shows that dividends are
financed by capital gains, the
virtuous circle works very well without any
problem and without resorting to this kind
of mechanism.  The problem is that
if Bitcoin falls, this scheme becomes
fragile, and that's where we see a
virtuous or vicious circle in the
microstrategy model.  So if the
refinancing portion through the
new STRC issue represents a small part
of this repayment, that's fine, it doesn't bother
anyone.  As soon as it starts to take up
a significant part of the repayment,
it raises real questions and some are
precisely waiting for the moment when they will have no
other choice but to issue
new preferred shares to
repay the first ones and thus pay
even more interest.  And that's where
the strategy of vaccinating the market
by selling for the very first time
came to the minds of the
microstrategy management.  Because after all, they
still have another way to repay
part of these loans, which is
simply to sell a portion of the
Bitcoin they hold, even if it goes
against the discourse they have
always maintained until now.  But that's
not all.  If this video
interests you and helps you see things more
clearly, there's a little subscribe button
to support me, it's always
appreciated.
The problem is not simply the
promise that has been hammered home on social media for more than 5 years
by its
founders, by its team who say
to buy, always buy, never
sell and hold their position.  What
also interests them and what they have
in their sights here is the thesis of
investment funds that are shorting
violently and betting on the decline
of micro-strategy.  To give you a rough
idea, roughly 40% of the free float consists of
people who are betting against
the company.  They are shorts.  The
test for these shorts is always the
same.  They will one day be forced to
sell in order to repay their debts.  And at
that point, the vicious cycle will
begin and accelerate.  As long as
this test is enough to create fear
and pressure.  This is enough
to limit investors' interest
in investments and to ensure that there are
always more people who short
and who, through this mechanical effect, drive
prices down, thus maintaining a
burden on the company's shoulders.
And that's why Michael Sailor says he
wants to, and I quote, inoculate,
that is, vaccinate the market with
a small dose.  His goal is to
show that by selling small,
voluntarily, the world keeps
turning, that there is no problem,
that there is no panic, that there will be
no catastrophe and that the
machine works very well even if
it parts with some of its
bitcoins.  And it's a trap set
directly for people who short
and bet on the decline.  If
nothing collapses when Microstrategy sells, then
the thesis no longer holds.  Some short
positions will be cut, increasing the
value of those that are still short.  And
the fear of being the last to leave their
position and incurring the most
losses is likely to be the biggest danger
for those who are standing up
against microstrategy today.  To quote
Michael Sailor from his recent speech
to Wall Street
, he said, "If your thesis is that we will be
forced to sell, nothing would
please me more than to tear your
wings off."  That is very clearly his
strategy.  But that's not even the
most interesting point, and that's what I liked
the most.  In the United States,
accounting standards include what is
called specific identification.  I'm
translating, Microstrategy is not going to sell
any of these Bitcoins.  They're not going to
sell the last bitcoins they bought,
anyway.  They will sell precisely
the bitcoins that they bought at the highest
price.  Bitcoins worth $120,000, for
example.  And this has two effects on
the company.  The very first point is
that by parting with the Bitcoins they
bought at the highest price, when they calculate
the average cost of acquisition, the
average purchase price of a Bitcoin, this price will
naturally decrease since they will
remove the most expensive bitcoins
purchased from this calculation.  It doesn't change
much from an accounting perspective, but when you
look at the company from the outside and
see at what price it bought its
Bitcoin, the lower that figure is and the
lower it is than the current cost, the more it can
reassure investors.  And the
second point, and this is where it's
genius, is that if you sell
Bitcoin that you bought at 120,000,
well today you are recording a capital loss
, you are recording a
loss, you have the accounting tools in hand
to do
tax optimization.  As I
speak, this represents up to
$2.5 billion in
micro-strategy optimization.  This isn't a
distress sale, it's
accounting optimization.  And when you add all
that to the fact that their first
communication is we will
probably sell some Bitcoin
to pay dividends, not only are
the holders of these shares
reassured, and while the speech as a
whole will annoy some,
since they are going back on a promise
and a speech they have been making from
the beginning, for others it is a sign
of maturity.  They knew how to buy when
nobody wanted to hear about
Bitcoin anymore.  They need to know how to sell
when it's to their advantage.
So it will be interesting in the
coming weeks, if they sell and if they
communicate about it, to see the
real movement on the price but also the
reaction of the short sellers.  Will there be
less short selling on Microstratégie?
Will firms like Citron
Capital or Keris Dale reverse
their position and stop betting
against micro-strategy?  There are a few
questions that were put to the
management team and they answered what
calculation criteria they believed
told them when it was a good
time to sell.  They explain that
everything revolves around the MNA.
MNA is a variable that you can
find on the strategy website
elsewhere which represents the ratio between
the value of the company and its
Bitcoin stock, including debts.
Basically, at the end of 2024, when the company
was at its peak, it had 2.7
Mnave.  It was worth 2.7 times its
Bitcoin holdings.  Today, the MN is much
closer to 1. They explain that these are
the two major ratios.  When
the company and its net asset value deviate too far
from the value of Bitcoin, it is
advantageous to create new
shares and take on debt in order to
buy back Bitcoin.
Conversely, when the MNVE is too close
to the stock value, at that point
it is advantageous to sell
some of them in order to pay off
debts and repay their creditor.  The
reference threshold they give according to
their calculation is 1.22.
And now we have a period of uncertainty where
we don't really know how to position ourselves.
Some abandon micro-strategy, while
others believe that
the company has reached a
certain point of maturity by being
able to take this kind of position,
assume it, and maintain it.
Notably, BTIG, one of the largest
brokers on Wall Street, has just
raised its target price on a
micro-strategy stock, which was previously at
$250 and is now positioned at $
350. Following these announcements, there are
also companies like Copicat or those
inspired by micro-strategy.
Since Michael Sailor launched the
strategy, there are 220 companies
worldwide, some of them giants, that have
followed identical
or similar accumulation mechanisms, such as
Metlanète in Japan,
Capital B in France, or giants
like Mara, who at one point were even
forced to sell more than 15,000 Bitcoins
to honor some of their debts,
but also, according to their discourse, to
reposition themselves on AI.  So, as for the
scenarios now, only
time will tell.  Either Bitcoin
goes back above 100k and we risk
seeing this virtuous circle continue to
prosper sustainably.  Either there will be
between 60 and 80 left and they will have to make trade-offs
on the number of Bitcoin
they will liquidate and on how
they will honor those famous 11.5%,
that is, $1.5 billion to be
repaid per year.  Or if Bitcoin
falls below $50,000, the
leverage reverses, it becomes even
harder to raise funds and they will have to
sell more and more Bitcoin to be
able to honor their debts.  At that
point, the question is
how long they can
hold out?  Because, in this instance, they
still have a little over 2 billion in
reserve, which allows them to
repay all these interest payments for
almost a year and a half, without even, if they
wish, selling anything at all.
Last week,
Snapchat announced a free
monthly newsletter that summarizes
everything that happened in 30 days in
a short email that you can read in 5
minutes.  We published it on
social media because we find it
increasingly
difficult to keep up with crypto news these days.  You have to
follow macro,
crypto, but also
traditional finance.  That's starting to add up
.  We realized how
complex it was and decided to
create a
very short format that summarizes as much as
possible to allow those who don't have
much time to have everything in front of them
at least once a month.  If
you're interested, it's free and the
link to sign up for the newsletter is
in the description.  I hope
you enjoyed this video, that it helped you
understand a little better what is
happening, and I am curious to hear your
opinion because, in this case, opinions
are very divided.  Does this
reassure you about the understanding that a
micro-strategy of its model and its
ability to change discourse for its own
good, even if it is not what people
wanted to hear, or on the contrary, does it make
you doubt even more this
mechanism which was already fragile and which
has just very clearly assumed the
direction it does not want to take.
Your opinion matters and as always, I'll
show you the most
interesting comments in the space below
the video.  So feel free to post
something.  If you enjoyed this video
, please subscribe by clicking this
button; it helps me a lot, and do
n't hesitate to give it a thumbs up.   This
was Owen, and we'll see you
next week for a new
video.  Bye.
