It's 2018. You're on Facebook. You open
the menu, scroll down, and spot this
little protect button. [music]
Sounds like a good idea. You tap it.
Millions of others do, too. You're
prompted to install something called
Onavo Protect, a free VPN that protects
your privacy, allegedly.
If only you knew.
>> I'm proud that we've given people who've
never had a voice before the opportunity
to be heard. Facebook accused of spying.
>> A VPN app called Onavo.
>> His VPN spied on almost everything users
did and sent detailed data to Facebook.
Potentially a giant wire tab.
>> It gets into the root access of your
phone.
>> Any websites you went to, any apps you
used, things along those lines.
Everything you did on your phone was
open to Facebook.
>> And so far, there have been almost no
legal consequences.
>> We're heading into a no privacy future.
>> We're already there, aren't we?
>> I mean,
>> but this story is even bigger than
Onavo. It's a story about betrayal of
trust, surveillance of minors, and
corporate espionage, all in the race for
market dominance. This is the Facebook
scandal you've probably never heard of.
>> Confirmed.
>> Though VPN providers sometimes sponsor
our videos, they aren't involved in the
production of this video in any way.
They didn't finance this story or
suggest this coverage.
Double rainbow. Oh my god.
>> When it comes to the internet, a lot of
people remember the last decade as a
simpler time.
>> Those were the years of the Harlem
Shake, the Ice Bucket Challenge, that
one celebrity selfie.
Compared to today, it all seems so
wholesome. Back in the 2010s, many
people still believed something that
seems impossible today that Facebook of
all companies could be trusted. So when
their users saw a friendly seeming
protect button, by 2018 millions of them
had tapped in.
For many years, Mark Zuckerberg has been
open about his goal of making Facebook
[music] the ultimate platform for
connection. By 2013, that's going well.
Facebook is bigger than ever and the
most popular social network. In 2012,
they cracked a billion users and they
pulled off the largest tech IPO in US
history, raising $16 billion in a single
day. But users in the US are losing
interest, especially younger ones.
They're usually the first to flock to
newer apps. Zuckerberg is under
increasing pressure. You really can't
risk losing these users to other social
media companies. So, his strategy
becomes, as it would later be described,
copy, acquire, and kill. In 2012, he
made Instagram an offer they couldn't
refuse.
>> Americans share photos on Instagram, a
company with only 13 employees bought
today by Facebook for $1 billion. The
acquisition was ridiculed at the time. A
billion dollars for a cute photo app
that doesn't turn a profit. Investment
bankers were puzzled. It was a risky
move right before Facebook's IPO, but
the move will end up paying off
massively.
Instagram will deliver billions of users
and billions of dollars in yearly ad
revenue. Just 6 years after the
acquisition, Instagram's estimated worth
will be a hundred times what Facebook
paid.
For a while now, Zuckerberg is at
another target in sight, Snapchat.
The app was launched in the fall of 2011
by Stanford friends Evan Spiegel and
Robert Murphy. Spiegel is the CEO,
Murphy the developer. Snapchat is yet
another photo sharing app, but with one
key difference. The images shared
disappear after just a few seconds and
can't be screenshotted without the
sender knowing. Snapchat's appeal is in
its impermanence. And unlike on
Instagram, the photos aren't meant to be
perfect. They can be awkward, funny, and
messy. [music] Teenagers love it, and
Zuckerberg wants in. At the end of 2012,
he invited Spiegel for a chat. At the
time, Facebook was building a competing
app called Poke. It launched in December
2012 and failed badly.
People briefed on the matter told the
Wall Street Journal Zuckerberg then
offered to buy Snapchat for a billion
dollars. Now in late 2013, he comes back
with a new offer, $6 billion for the
app, six times what he offered
Instagram, a huge sum for an app that's
only been around for 2 years and isn't
profitable with no guarantees that it
ever will be. Spiegel and Murphy mull it
over but eventually declined the offer.
Spiegel will later say he didn't want to
make the same mistake that Instagram
did.
>> Our view was that Instagram had been
wildly undervalued in that um
acquisition ultimately had given up like
a massive massive opportunity.
Fine then time for a new approach.
You know we cover a lot of tech stories
in this channel. Almost all of these
stories feature code and recently you
might have heard of vibe coding. You're
always going to be ahead if you actually
understand how things are built and how
systems work. Kotti is the platform to
get into coding. Whether you're a
beginner or an aspiring dev, Kotti
offers bite-sized, gamified lessons.
Instead of overwhelming you with theory,
it creates a personalized learning path
right from the start. When you sign up,
you get a journey tailored to your goals
based on just a few quick questions.
Then you learn by doing. There are short
challenges, real code, and instant
feedback if you get stuck. [music] It's
kind of like a certain language learning
app, but for programming. There's even a
streak system to keep [music] you
consistent. And it's free to use with
the daily limit. Start learning with
Kotty Techch now. Check out the link in
the description or scan this QR code.
Use code Fern 20 for 20% off.
In 2013, Facebook acquired an Israeli
startup called Onavo. Zuckerberg's
company reportedly spent around hund00
million on it. Back then, mobile data
was expensive, [music] especially in the
US. Ono was known for two products that
saved consumers money by helping them
stretch their data plans. Ono Extend
could compress emails, photos, and app
data. Ono count allowed users to see how
much mobile data different apps were
consuming. Both required users to send
their data to Anavo servers. And a few
months before getting bought, they had
launched their [music] latest product, a
VPN called the Novel Protect. But
Facebook was probably interested in the
startup for more than just data
compression or traffic rerouting.
Originally, Facebook made money by
tracking user behavior on their site.
They did this with so-called cookies.
Cookies are small files that websites
store in your device to remember login,
preferences, and activities. This data
can then be used to sell hyperargeted
ads. But smartphones changed the game.
People started using apps instead of
browsers. And apps often store data
internally. They track behavior through
appsp specific systems, making
traditional browser cookies less useful.
Facebook was lagging behind in the shift
to smartphones. It was struggling to
monetize mobile usage, [music] so it
needed insights. At the time, it was
hard to know how well apps were
performing. You could see how many
people downloaded them, but that didn't
say much about how often or how exactly
they were used. When Navo saw an
opportunity to fill this knowledge gap,
thanks to the traffic that was routed to
Extend and Count, the company was
sitting on a treasure trove of
engagement data.
By acquiring the company, Facebook
suddenly had a secret window into their
competitors, and one app immediately
stood out. Ono [music] data showed that
99% of Android users in Spain had
WhatsApp installed on their phones. In
the US, far more mobile messages were
being sent through WhatsApp than through
Facebook. WhatsApp was powerful
competition, yet it also promised
incredible growth. This is likely one of
the reasons Zuckerberg decided to pay
$19 billion for it.
>> Facebook is making a major move into
mobile this morning. The social media
behemoth is buying the messaging company
WhatsApp.
>> WhatsApp was uh also both a competitor
and complimentary.
>> It's a messaging app that is incredibly
popular. They send billions of messages
a day.
>> Zuckerberg made no apology for what he
considers a very good deal.
>> Facebook also used to gain insights into
Snapchat, their arch nemesis. And there
was so much they wanted to know. Perhaps
most importantly, which features people
actually used. But there was a problem.
All the traffic sent through Anavo's
apps was increasingly hidden behind
encryption.
A year before the acquisition, Snowden
revealed that the NSA was spying on the
world. Concerns about online
surveillance entered the mainstream, and
suddenly everyone wanted more
protection. As the decade marched on,
the internet moved toward increased
security, including Facebook's main
competitors.
Enter the rise of HTTPS.
When you visit bank ofofamea.com, your
browser doesn't just take the website's
word for it. It verifies that you're
actually connecting to the site you
intended to visit. It does so by
requesting the website's security
certificate, its digital ID. This
contains information such as domain
ownership, the issuing authority, and
its validity period. Once a certificate
is issued, the site keeps it for a set
period of time. To verify these
certificates, your browser relies on
digital judges, the so-called
certificate authorities or CAS. They
issue digital IDs and verify that
websites are really who they claim to
be. Every time you visit, your browser
checks whether it's still valid. See
this little icon in your address bar? It
means your browser has checked the
website certificate against its trusted
list and confirmed that it links back to
a trusted authority. Everything is
legitimate. Then they agree on a
temporary secret key for your session.
From now on, only you and the site can
read the traffic. Your communication is
encrypted. Any data you type into bank
of america.com travels safely to their
server. Eavesdroppers can't read it. On
your phone, things work similarly.
Tucked deep inside your phone is a
highsecurity vault called a trust store.
It's maintained by the company that
makes the operating system. Think Apple,
Google, or Microsoft.
>> [music]
>> By default, your phone trusts a built-in
list of so-called root certificates, but
users or companies can sometimes add
their own trusted certificates. Some
apps trust only specific pre-approved
certificates. This is called certificate
pinning. Even if a new certificate is
added to your phone's trusted list, the
app won't accept it. Like many others,
Snapchat started using HTTPS.
However, they didn't use certificate
pinning for their analytics domain. This
was Facebook's way in.
In June 2016, Zuckerberg sent an email
to three senior executives demanding
that they figure out how to get around
Snapchat's encryption. Whenever someone
asks a question about Snapchat, the
answer is usually that because their
traffic is encrypted, we have no
analytics about them. Given how quickly
they're growing, it seems important to
figure out a new way to get analytics
about them. This effectively kicks off
Project Ghostbusters.
A few weeks after the email, the Onavo
team comes up with a solution.
Say you're at a library. You see free
Wi-Fi. And since it's 2016 and your data
plan is tiny, you connect. Just down the
aisle sits a man in a hoodie named
Elliot. He's about to hack you. He might
be running a device from his backpack
that pretends to be the library Wi-Fi,
or he's just quietly monitoring the
network looking for traffic. Either way,
he can read the unencrypted info you
send over the network and steal things
like login credentials or credit card
data.
Elliot is a so-called man-in-the-middle.
Because these man-in-the-middle attacks
are really scary and easy to pull off,
more and more people start using VPNs.
They create a secure tunnel between the
user's device and the VPN server. Along
the way, all the data that passes
through it is encrypted. From now on,
it's harder for hackers to intercept or
read your traffic. A VPN also hides your
IP address by routing all your internet
requests through its own servers.
On the surface, Onavo Protect seems like
a great option. It's free, [music] it
protects you, and it offers some data
compression features. Plus, Facebook
itself is promoting it, [music] and tech
experts are singing its praises. But a
novel protect is doing something very
sneaky. The following is based on an
analysis by an Australian hacker who
publishes under the alias Hacksro. We
cannot independently verify the results.
It all starts with a nudge. When you
install the app on Android, it says,
"Your privacy is a top priority." Then a
novel reportedly prompts you to install
a trusted root certificate on your
device. Once permission is granted, the
root certificate is installed. It will
then be trusted by many applications on
your phone. Now, whenever your Snapchat
app wants to send some analytics data to
their server, Onavo forces that traffic
to its server first because it's a VPN.
[music]
HR reports that a service called Squid
places itself between the app and
Snapchat's analytics server. It presents
a certificate to your phone. Yo, I'm
totally legit. Your phone accepts
[music] it because of the judge powers
Facebook gave itself. Yeah. Yeah. This
is totally legit. Normally only Snapchat
would be able to decrypt this data.
[music] But because Anavo installed its
own trusted certificate, it can unlock
the traffic first. Now all these
Snapchat analytics from your phone get
decrypted and land on Anavo servers.
Detailed inapp activity ripe for the
taking. Next, Squid uses a separate
HTTPS connection with Snapchat's real
server [music] and reencrypts the
traffic. From the app's perspective, the
connection appears normal. According to
HackRob, it isn't clear whether all app
users were targeted or just a subset of
users. We asked Metaphor a comment on
Hacks Robb's findings, but didn't
receive a response.
So, in a startling case of irony, a VPN
marketed by Facebook to protect you,
presumably from man-in-the-middle
attacks was itself an enormous
man-in-the-middle. These aren't our
words, they're [music] Facebooks. This
is a man-in-the-middle approach.
>> For Facebook, the intercepted data is a
gold mine. After launching Instagram
stories, they observe that Snapchat's
growth slows. Its stock value plummets.
Facebook appears to be winning the war.
But it seems a novel was useful beyond
just crushing arrival.
According to the Wall Street Journal,
Facebook could tell that live video was
picking up through apps like Mircat and
Periscope. This helped guide their
decision to add live video to Facebook.
But over time, their certificate
shenanigans became more difficult to
pull off. The security of iOS and
Android improved, so Facebook had to
look for new ways in. According to court
filings, Facebook internally considered
exploiting Android's features designed
to support users with disabilities.
[music]
When we asked Facebook to comment on
this, they didn't get back to us. And
maybe all of this could have just been
forgotten, buried [music] tech history.
But over the years, the public slowly
started to realize what Facebook was up
to.
In a sense, users were warned. In the
app store description, Anavo did tell
users it was tracking them, but they
framed it as a way to build a better
experience. Based on that language, it's
doubtful users really understood the
level of access the company had. When
Project Ghostbusters launched, not
everyone at Facebook was on board. The
heads of the infrastructure engineering
and security engineering departments
both expressed their concerns by email.
One wrote, "I can't think of a good
argument for why this is okay. No
security person is ever comfortable with
this. No matter what consent we get from
the general public, the general public
just doesn't know how this stuff works.
People familiar with the technology
spoke to the press anonymously. In
August 2017, they told the Wall Street
Journal that Facebook had an internal
early bird warning system, one that
alerts them to potential new threats.
It's a no. At the time, according to
Facebook insiders, don't be too proud to
copy became an informal slogan within
the company. Speaking to the public,
Zuckerberg would claim it was normal for
tech companies to build off of each
other's innovations. In early 2018, a
security researcher named Will Strawfac
took a closer look at how a NAVO
functioned on iOS. He discovered it was
even more intrusive than the Wall Street
Journal had reported.
Wyard also warned against the Navo.
Nothing happened.
But then 3 months later, Apple
introduced new developer policies. It
strictly banned apps from collecting
data about other apps in a device unless
it was strictly necessary for the app to
function. Apple warned Facebook that a
novel protect violated this policy and
Facebook had no choice but to remove it
from the app store.
>> Many of our competitors have hundreds of
millions or billions of users. Some are
upstarts, but others are gatekeepers
with the power to decide if we can even
release our apps in their app stores to
compete with them.
>> But it turns out was just the tip of the
iceberg.
Back in 2016, next to a novel protect,
Facebook launches a shadow operation to
specifically collect data on how teens
use their phones. After all, they're
often the first adopters of whatever app
might become the next big threat. A
project later called Project Atlas is
born. Facebook offers teens and young
adults up to $20 a month to install a
VPN called Facebook Research. This app's
code is later found to be suspiciously
similar to that of Onavo Protect.
[music] Once installed, the app grants
access to a user's internet history,
including encrypted information and
private messages with other users who
have never given their consent. The
whole project is shrouded in secrecy. An
assessment to Facebook spokesperson
later disputed. There was nothing secret
about this. It was literally called the
Facebook Research App. However, Facebook
doesn't promote the app publicly.
Instead, they rely on intermediaries who
often don't reveal Facebook's
involvement until users are already
signing up. The VPN is also not listed
publicly in the app store. Instead,
Facebook leverages the Apple Enterprise
Developer Program, a system meant only
for company's employees to download work
apps. By having users install an
enterprise profile, Facebook bypasses
the security measures Apple has in place
for regular users. To join the so-called
research program, users are guided
through a complex installation process.
When Apple's system displays a warning
that the software could access their
private data, Facebook tells them to
ignore it. Users are told they're part
of a social media study, but Facebook
never discloses the true scale of the
project. TechCrunch reports that users
faced legal threats if they disclose
details, part of an effort to keep the
project hidden.
[music] In January 2019, Facebook
research was finally exposed. TechCrunch
worked with security researcher Will
Stra. He analyzed the full level of
access the users, many of them miners,
were granting Facebook. It became clear
that this access even included private
videos and messages as well as realtime
location data. And all that data went
straight to a server using the same IP
as a novel protect. [music] When we
asked Meta to comment on this, we didn't
receive a response.
7 hours after the article was published,
Facebook told TechCrunch it would shut
down the iOS version of its research
app. Facebook accused of spying and
using teenagers to help them.
>> People between the ages of 13 and 35
were paid up to $20 a month
>> to spy on their phones.
>> Photos, videos, location, web browsing
history.
>> The teens signing up to this don't know
what they're getting into.
>> A month later,
>> Facebook is pulling its virtual private
network, a VPN app called Onavo from
Google Play. US senators demanded
answers, accusing Facebook of exploiting
minors and sidestepping basic privacy
safeguards.
>> Um
uh
>> they condemned the program and
questioned how meaningful consent could
be when users were as young as 13. In
2023, Australia's federal court ruled
that Facebook Israel and Anavo
Incorporated had engaged in conduct
liable to mislead consumers. Today, the
AC has instituted proceedings against
Facebook in relation to the way it
promoted its Anavo Protect app. The two
subsidiaries of Meta had marketed Anavo
as a privacy tool while secretly using
it to harvest data for Facebook's
business purposes. The court ordered the
companies to pay a combined $13 million
in fines.
We don't know who actually paid the
fine, but for their parent company,
Meta, which turns a profit of way over
$50 billion a year, this is pocket
change.
As technology becomes more
sophisticated, privacy often takes a
hit. It's become increasingly normal to
sacrifice personal data for convenience.
A lot of [music] people are fine with
facial recognition at the airport if it
means shorter lines. And the more we
accept these trade-offs, the more
[music] they become standard until
opting out is no longer an option.
Social media makes this pattern
especially stark. Over the years, heavy
Facebook users have been shown to
exhibit increasingly relaxed attitudes
towards privacy. They're slowly growing
more accustomed to sharing, tracking,
and surveillance as the default. Mark
Zuckerberg has said that Facebook's
mission is to connect the world. He
seems to hope that this will be his
legacy, but maybe a better fit would be
move fast, break privacy.
