Hi, I am James Higginbotham. I'm the
author of "The Principles of Web API Design"
and founder of LaunchAny, an API consulting firm.
I'm here with Vaughn Vernon today. Vaughn
is a software developer and architect
with over 35 years of experience across a
broad range of business domains. He's also
a leading expert in domain-driven design,
and a champion of simplicity, which I love.
In addition, he's the founder of an open-source
product or platform called VLINGO XOOM, which
is a set of DDD-friendly distributed computing
tools. The tools simplify concurrent, reactive,
event-driven, and microservice architectures,
and it's all built on the Java virtual machine.
Now, if that's not enough, he's also the
author of the book "Strategic Monoliths
and Microservices," as well as an editor of a new
Signature Series from Pearson and Addison-Wesley.
Vaughn's here today to share some insights from
his new book. Great to speak with you, Vaughn.
Let's start by having you tell us a bit about
your Signature Series with Pearson Addison-Wesley.
Sure. Thank you to GOTO for inviting
me to be interviewed, and my suggestion to
have you, James Higginbotham, interview me.
It's good to be with all of you. Well, I would
say that my Signature Series has the first goal
of trying to help developers, software developers
of all kinds, to mature. And by maturity, I don't
mean simply knowing more about some programming
language. Of course, that's always important. But
my thinking on maturity is more around having a
business-centric focus on software development,
where software developers are less drawn to
tinkering with new toys and hacking code,
but more about learning what the benefits are
of drawing close to the business, having a good
partnership with business stakeholders, and
developing software that has strategic value.
In doing that, the series also emphasizes
organic refinement, meaning that
things emerge as we learn more, and
we look at software projects more as
learning experiences and through
experimentation and discovery.
As we learn more, the software gets
better. As we go through that, we're
specifically looking into topics such as reactive
object and functional-based architectures and
programming, as well as domain modeling and,
of course, including domain-driven design,
creating services that might fit what would
be called microservices by some, but again,
demonstrating purposeful architecture around
that. Also patterns and like your book,
James Higginbotham, APIs on the patterns
that you talk about in your book.
We're trying to promote the best uses of such
tools and any underlying technologies that match
up with those. So really, an architecture and
design focus where technology and programming
underpin that, but those things
are not the primary focus.
Yes, that's fascinating. A lot of the things
that you mention, you even call that out,
it's not just about programming languages. I
mean, there's an aspect to that, but there's
more to it. You're helping the development
community move beyond just the technology.
And it sounds like you're helping them
engage in the business side of things,
in the product thinking side of things,
other elements of that. Is that right?
Yes. And, you know, James, as we've spoken
about before in my interview with you on another
podcast, we're quite interested in learning
what the business needs are, whether we're
consulting first and then training, or
training-consulting, whatever it happens to be,
we're looking for ways to improve the business
value. And not just showing developers new techy
type things that, of course, it is technology.
But yes, trying to improve the practices first.
That's great. I was excited about this Signature
Series when you mentioned that you had this
opportunity. I think those that are probably
familiar with the Signature Series from Pearson in
the past with Martin Fowler's series and others,
I think there's a lot of people that have taken
advantage of those and matured their career and
their thinking and changed the way maybe they've
approached software design, systems design,
solution architecture as a result of those.
So this is going to be a great series. I've seen
some of the titles already and I'm looking forward
to some that are still being written as well.
Yes. And it gives a great opportunity to introduce
new authors sort of under maybe
the wing of the series, where
maybe they aren't as well known to the community,
but they should be. Being in the series helps too,
I guess, both validate, but more
promote the ideas of other people and
show that there's a lot of wisdom out there to be
shared. And thank you again for being an author
in the series.
Yeah, thanks for the opportunity. It's an honor
to be part of that series. Let's dive in to the
book now. Your book is "Strategic Monoliths and
Microservices." Who did you write that for? And
why did you write it? You know, what drove you?
I mean, writing a book is a passion project that
takes a lot of energy, a lot of time. So tell
us a little bit about why you wrote that book.
I've noticed and probably, mostly since my "Red
Book," the "Implementing Domain-Driven Design"
book that there continues to be a big chasm
maybe or gap between business people, you know,
those who are primarily interested in the
innovation around their business and developers.
Developers latch on to domain-driven design.
They want to learn it. But what I found is
there's always just sort of this still very
technical bent to those who want to learn DDD.
And even when given a clear opportunity to
interact with business people, they tend to either
shy away from it or decline the opportunity.
They'll say things like, "No, we've got this." So,
it's still this kind of, like, closed circle of
developers who are trying to think about the ways
that the software should work without
really engaging with the business.
While making those observations and writing books
that are primarily for architects and developers,
I started to think, "Well, wouldn't it be nice
if executives had the opportunity to know,
at a slightly less technical level than, say,
architects or programmers of various levels,
where they could understand the kinds of decisions
that could be made, and the possibilities without
actually stepping on the toes of developers at
the same time?" And I just want to make clear that
the book is for C-suite, senior VPs, VPs,
directors, managers of software projects.
But it can range through chief architect,
senior architect, enterprise architect,
senior developer, mid-level developer, even junior
developers, because these are the kinds of things
the mindset that needs to occur to be, developed
in software teams if they truly want to innovate.
The book is meant for a range of roles,
but it's written in such a way that
certainly is compatible with C-level
executives. And I just have to say, too,
that C-level executives these days, especially in
technology, are way different than they were 30 or
40 years ago, you know, sort of when I was getting
my start in software. And I talk about the sort of
Wall Street or, you know, midtown Manhattan look
with pinstripe suits, and vests, and all this
stuff. There's not anything wrong with that, but,
you know, when you really look at the founders
today of startups, and even executives and, you
know, large enterprise or fortune companies and
global companies, they have a completely different
mindset than that. And they're more casually
dressed, but also, they're very technically
savvy. Tomasz, my co-author, and I didn't in
any way dumb down the book. But we made sure
that we didn't dive too deeply into bits and
bytes and things like that because that isn't
mostly about an innovation most of the time.
Wow, that's a great point. And I've seen that
as well in the organizations I work with. The
C-suite, they're deeply technical, we're having
deep technical conversations with them. They're
sitting down and, at least in my experience,
drawing diagrams and things and trying to work
through the problems at a much deeper level.
So having a resource like this that helps to
unify the thinking and to speak
to that broad audience allows
the C-suite down to the junior developer to
all be kind of speaking the same language,
thinking about the same things in the same way.
And that seems to be a really powerful way to
approach a book like this.
So, "Strategic Monoliths and Microservices," I
think that's a really interesting title. It feels
like a blend between the business or technical
strategy worlds and some of the architectural
decisions we have to make. Why did you choose
that title? Did it come to you instantly? Was it
something that took a little while to emerge? Tell
me a little bit about the origins of the title of
the book and kind of the general, you know, vision
or mission of this book and what you're trying to
set out to do and how all that ties together?
Yeah, great question. First of all,
titles of books, that's a really
interesting subject in itself. Actually,
"Implementing Domain-Driven Design", my first
book, the "Red Book," I had that title from
the beginning, and it stuck. I think that
this book's title changed about five times
before it was ready and we chose one to
use. It took a lot of ruminating over time
to consider all the angles and so forth.
We knew that we wanted to write about
monoliths and microservices, and sort of the
overarching ideas of strategy and innovation.
I think that what we finally landed on was
both the main title, "Strategic Monoliths
and Microservices," and a subtitle that kind
of harmonize. And the way that they do that is
"strategic" and the subtitle
"driving innovation" go together.
And then "monoliths" and "microservices" in the
main title and using "purposeful architecture."
So those two titles are I guess a
bit parallel and woven together.
So that was the idea is put more
emphasis on strategic innovation.
And, of course, software architecture is
extremely important, but you can't have
an architecture unless you know what software
you're developing. And when someone rushes into
architecture because this is what they
love and they're just sort of, like,
trying to fit things together that they assume
will be necessary, I think that often there's
a lack of real thought as to purpose. So trying
to emphasize that first comes to the strategy,
the understanding of how we will be innovative,
and then what do we need to make that
happen in terms of software architecture?
In the first chapter, you seem to focus on kind
of three areas at least that stood out to me as
business transformation, software architecture,
and the inevitable element of change.
And you seem to have kind of set up
the whole book from at least those
three elements. That's what stood out to me.
We talked about kind of how the title was inspired
and what you're looking at. But let's talk a
little bit more about what people are experiencing
in their day-to-day. Every organization's going
through a digital transformation of some sort
and we're all having to deal with changes and
evolution of software architecture and the change
throughout. So how are these elements connected?
How are you tying those together in the book?
Yes. So definitely every company that I
engage with is going through a transformation,
digital transformation. And what I find,
though, is that sometimes digital transformation
is simply like a lift and shift
to the cloud. And, to me, that's
actually really not digital transformation. And
I think where innovation is really a sought-after
goal, most people wouldn't really consider that
innovation or digital transformation. Like I say
Amazon is sort of making their
enterprise computing stack available
to the outside world, that's innovation,
right? I mean, they had it, it was working,
it scales tremendously. And they say, "Okay, then
let's sell timeshares for this, basically, right,
usage, metering for the use of this." Okay,
that's transformation, definitely innovation.
But, subscribing to that, spending money for it,
and just moving your same software over there is
not digital transformation. It's just sort
of, like new hardware in a different form or
something like that. So, I like to emphasize that
digital transformation is all about innovation,
that you're trying to transform in areas where
either the digital aspects of your business were
simple, like too simplistic, not
carrying enough business weight,
or there are still manual processes within
the business, and we're trying to take every
situation there and turn it into a digital
experience that will drive big revenues for
the companies that engage in that process
and take the risk in investing in it.
Given that background about digital transformation
and the view you're seeing of how software is
having to change and organizations are changing
now, can you walk us through the four main topics
or parts of your book and talk about how they give
everybody a chance to understand? What does your
book cover? What are you approaching in this book?
Sure. And actually, I realized I didn't fully
answer your question. So how do architecture
and change fit into that? Well, if you're going
through a digital transformation, transformation
doesn't happen overnight. And certainly doesn't
happen even extremely quickly when you're moving
from sort of this big ball of mud, you know,
tangled legacy system. So you need to have an
architecture that will facilitate change. And even
if you're starting kind of, you know, from scratch
in a lot of digital transformation areas, like
really innovating, you still need an architecture
that facilitates change. Right? So hopefully,
that sort of answers the first part of that.
The four sections then are:
how do we look at the transformation in general?
That's kind of the first part of the book,
and how do we develop the right mindset for
innovation for actually engaging meaningfully with
business stakeholders, and software
developers, and, you know, users or customers
of the software that will be eventually available
for use so that we can make the best software and
create breakthroughs, realize
breakthroughs in what we offer?
Then some tools that can be used to do
this in a very lightweight, very flexible,
and tools that support agile as in agility. And we
kind of, you know, in the book kind of steer away
from the heavyweight, what is considered agile,
but where it tends to have a lot of ceremonies,
you know, associated with it. So we kind
of formulate that in the first part.
The second part is about domain-driven success. So
domain being identified as a sphere of knowledge,
but also the business domain this
sphere of knowledge about the business,
but then in smaller parts of the business where
we're focused on innovation, what do those spheres
of knowledge look like? What's driving us to try
to innovate within those? But then also balancing
that kind of investment with a recognition that
all software is not strategic. It's necessary,
but it might be supporting
or generic. And so, how do we
balance the kind of investment that we need to
make without putting too much money and time
into areas? Or at least not the human capital time
that you know, the business needs to use for these
innovations, but maybe spend some money
on off-the-shelf or download open source,
you know, components and so forth to support
that. So there's a good balance there to be found.
This is where we do talk about domain-driven
design, but we delay the introduction of the
term "domain-driven design" because we didn't want
higher-level executive management and so forth to
hear yet another one of these, what might
appear to them to be buzzword. While you, and I,
and others understand that it's not a buzzword,
it's a way of thinking and an approach to software
development. But we kind of sneak up on them a
little bit in that sense and describe what we're
doing and why we do it, and then say, "Oh, and
by the way you know, Eric Evans wrote about this,
whatever, nearly, I guess, 18 years ago or
19 years ago, now I don't remember for sure.
And this is what it's called,
and here are the parts of it."
And then we just don't, like, keep saying stuff
like that. We just show them how to use it.
Then the third part of the book is event-driven
architectural or event-first architectures where
we're talking about how events are extremely
important to the development of any software.
And I'll get back to that in a moment.
Then what are the software patterns,
both whether it's web-based, or messaging-based,
or whatever it happens to be, what are the
technical tools that we have, and
the patterns that can be used to
highlight and accommodate events as the
first-class idea in software development,
and how that helps with innovation?
The fourth part of the book, pardon me, is about
monoliths themselves and microservices, but
taking kind of two approaches to this. One is
"Monoliths Like You Mean It," right,
is the name of one of the chapters.
What that means is if you're
going to develop monoliths
and you find this to be a purposeful architecture,
this is how you want to go about doing it
so that it doesn't turn into a tangled, you know,
big ball of mud mess. And what if you already
have a tangled big ball of mud mess but you
need to transform that into a well-modularized
monolith before you do anything else, how
do you deal with that kind of situation?
And then the next chapter, it's in fact, chapter
11 is introducing microservices like a boss,
right? So this is where you have a good
reason to use microservices. Perhaps this
includes using both monoliths and
microservices in the same system solution.
And then how do you go from, you know, the
tangled big ball of mud and reach microservices?
Well, you might first want to go back and
re-modularize or modularize that big ball of mud
using the advice in the previous chapter.
But if you're brave enough to sort of just
bulldoze forward with, we're just going
to go right from the big ball of mud to
microservices while we discuss that as well, and
how you can be successful with that. And we've,
Tomasz and I have both had experience with
this. So we feel that we provide very good
advice and techniques for doing this.
Finally, we kind of wrap up with this,
what I think is a very sort of poignant
last chapter, chapter 12, which
requires balance, demand innovation, right,
or demand strategy. So it's saying again,
let's just sort of review this in a few words.
Remember that architecture is providing a
purposeful means to develop software innovation
on a kind of foundation, but the innovation itself
needs to happen for there to be any reason for
software architecture to even be a concern at all.
So those are the four parts.
Now, I said I would come back to that whole
idea of events. And a really important thing
to remember is that we introduce,
you know, Mel Conway's,
you know, the amazing brainchild of Conway's
Law, what's become known as Conway's Law,
from the year 1967 didn't get any daylight until
1968 and then Fred Brooks recognized it as, "Wow,
this is really important work, you know," and
included in the "Mythical Man-Month" book.
And since then we've really learned, pardon me,
that Conway's Law is undeniable, it's there, it's
like the law of gravity. You don't get better at
the law of gravity, you simply have to work within
the bounds of the law of gravity, realizing
that if you fall even a few meters, or yards,
or whatever measurement system you're using, you
can get very hurt or even die from such an impact.
So, given that, what do we do with the law
of gravity? Well, we know that we can only
jump and stay in the air so long. So we
learn to coordinate certain things. Like
if we're playing basketball, or football, or,
whatever it happens to be, we learn how to use
our knowledge of the law of gravity and the
feeling that we have in our bodies for, you know,
how long we can sustain some move, or, you know,
airtime, or whatever it happens to be. And in
the same way when we're aware that communication
within an organization will have a direct impact
on the software or the system, actually any kind
of system, but a software system, in this case,
and the outcome of that, then we better make
some very good decisions about the kind of
organizational communication
structures that we put together.
And what's amazing to me is that Mel Conway
not only had the knowledge to observe that
organizations will create systems according to
their organizational communication structure,
but that he said, "Okay then, this means
that you should basically incentivize
leaders in your organization who are flexible
and create flexibility within the organization
communication in order to do this." So, okay,
what does this have to do with events? Well,
events are all about human
communication. They are.
What happens when I finish talking to you, James
Higginbotham? When I finally run out of breath
and you can talk again, what happens? Well, it's
sort of like an event, right? You recognize that
there's this Vaughn Vernon -stop-talking event,
and now you're gonna react to that. Well, it's the
same way with software. When various things happen
in software, we want to record as a communicative
record that this occurred. And because it's an
important occurrence, then even, the monolith
or microservice that we're building, or others
throughout the system that we're working with
can consume that as a means of telling them that
this happened, it's a form of communication, and
our communication itself is being relayed around
the entire system and the system can react to it.
So this is why we focus on events through the
book, and the tools that we provide in the book
are very much event-centric. So this is, I guess
maybe more than you wanted me to say about the
parts of the book and Conway's Law and events. But
there you go, that's the whole kind of, you know,
thing there, the whole idea.
Yes. No, I have witnessed
quite a few organizations that
think in a synchronous fashion, they think in
request-response, they think in calls. And then
it tends to get them in trouble, particularly when
they're going down a microservices path. Because,
as you said, they maybe have a big ball of mud,
or maybe they're just trying to transform the
way that they do things or trying to scale up.
They're trying to reorganize the way that they
work. And so they break things, decompose
big problems into smaller problems.
But they create this level of fragility,
as a result of making a call to a service,
which makes another synchronous call to a
service and they create these call chains.
The result of that, then, is instead of a single
process with code that's chaining calls together,
we're chaining calls over the network. And
anywhere along the way, in that call chain,
we could have a network problem. We could
have something that's not available.
So can you talk a little
bit about how events really help to transform
the organization into being more resilient,
less fragile by shifting toward an event model,
thinking more in terms of events rather than
synchronous call chains and service calls,s
and encountering these kinds of problems?
Sure. And actually, what you said is
a really good way to highlight that
communication is, again, a very fundamental part
of this. Because life life is not a podcast,
right? I mean, right now, you're waiting for
me to stop talking. So it's sort of like that
service call service, right? Where you're waiting
for me to stop talking so that you can do the next
thing, or I'm waiting for you to stop talking,
ask me a question, and then I do the next thing.
But human life doesn't work that way. Rarely do
I say to you talk to someone about some topic,
and then I literally wait for minutes,
hours, days, weeks, months for you too, like,
fulfill that request that I made, because
it might take a lot of time for that whole,
you know, your part of the conversation
to conclude how productive would that be?
So when you just think about just normal human
interaction, events make perfect sense because
events help us to, in essence, embrace latency.
Latency happens on the network. Even you might
think that you know, well, we're deploying
to Google and Google has the fastest network
on Earth. Nobody can\, do better than Google.
But talk to Google about how much latency they
have. I mean, I'm sure they're super-fast, but I
will guarantee you that their engineers, they're
trying to squeeze more out of it, trying to find
ways to make it even faster and more reliable.
So given that, when you capture
an event and you persist it,
and that is successful, then you have this
long-term, even forever kind of record that can be
distributed once to other parts of the system,
or it can be distributed time and time again
to newer systems that didn't exist before. When
that distribution occurs, as in a broadcast or
publishing such an event, you simply have to
know that the event was published. If you know
that when the event was published, you kind of
can now relax and forget about it. Right? So if
you ever think of software relaxing, it's probably
more about our brains are relaxing. Okay, I know
that it's persisted and I know that the messaging
mechanism has this and it's going to guarantee me
that at some point it's going to be delivered,
and now, given that at some future time,
some other component will react to
that event and do something about it,
and I might be interested in the fact
that some conclusion was reached.
I would want to know about the event
that happened in the other system,
but I'm not worried about setting timeouts for
REST requests. I'm not saying, "Well, if this REST
request doesn't succeed within five seconds, we're
done here, right? Failure." And how many cascading
impacts will that have, potentially across
a large part of the enterprise? Instead,
we're just saying, "Well, we know that this
worked, and we know that we're expecting something
back, but we'll just react to it when we see it."
Then if it happens in 6 seconds, or 16 seconds,
or 60 seconds, as long as that's within an
acceptable business timeframe, we're good, right?
We're not worried about, you know, user requests
stacking up on our web tier waiting to be handled,
because this thread is tied up on waiting
for something else and we can't let it
wait for more than five seconds, otherwise,
we start experiencing other problems upstream.
So it just really changes your whole mindset.
And the resiliency part comes in simply because
if there is a failure in delivery then, for
example, that event will be eventually delivered.
Given that the cloud, many companies are
very much dependent on the cloud now,
if there is a failure in some machine or
part of the network, we can bring up nodes,
whatever it is, or make a function available or a
lambda available in another area to handle that.
Well, you're going to get some very
kind of welcoming and naturally-feeling
resiliency. Of course, this is a bigger topic than
that. I don't want to just oversimplify it. But
that is the basic idea of the benefits.
I loved how you said, "software relaxing." I had
this picture, this microservice on a recliner
kickback, and just kind of waiting for an event
to come its way. But no, I fully agree with you.
I've worked with event-driven architectures in
the past. I first got introduced to them with
message-oriented middleware and accusing topics
on message brokers and things in connecting
different enterprise systems. But having worked
with a lot of organizations that have these,
either long-running processes, as you said,
where it could take a while before we can fulfill
the task at hand, the work that needs to be done,
or maybe just, as you said, the increased latency
of dealing with cohabiting software with other
people on shared hardware in the cloud, or dealing
with crossing boundaries across regions, or just
simply some system gets overwhelmed or overloaded,
and therefore would have a negative impact
on something that's working synchronously,
to shift ourselves to thinking
asynchronously and to start to
embrace that as an architecture to make that shift
will take time but has a lot of benefits to it.
Do you have any examples or something you can
share, even if the parties remain nameless,
of how you've helped people to transform that
mindset from asynchronous call request-response,
maybe a more REST-oriented way
of building software internally,
to a more event-driven reactive approach to
doing things and how that, you know, kind of
evolved and kind of the results
and the fruits of that labor?
Yes. Well, I'm working with multiple teams right
now in areas like that. Yes, it's a very different
way of thinking. Again, the whole service call
makes service call, it seems natural to developers
because they're used to making function calls or
method invocations and then those methods that are
called make other calls. And it's like, well,
that always works. Very rarely will it fail.
And so it just seems natural, and it is a big mind
shift for people to go through to accept that.
And
what I try to do is just make the whole idea
sound much simpler than they tend to consider
it upfront. And when they hear about this
asynchrony, "Wow, that's difficult stuff. Never
done that before." Well, of course, they have.
If you've ever written a web UI or an old Windows
API app, even if you're using Visual Basic
you have worked with asynchronous messaging,
right? You do not know when a user clicks the
mouse, or when they've selected some button,
or click some button, whatever it happens to
be until you receive a notification that that
occurred. And you're not constantly saying, you
know, "Hey, UI, did they click that button yet?
Did they click, you know, an item in the
list box? Did they scroll the list box?"
You just receive notifications of those things.
That is just what we're talking about. So anybody
who is in fear of this they don't need
to be. It is far simpler than most people
have the idea, but you do kind of, like, need
to shift your mindset. As I said, if you send,
you know, an event to another party and
you're expecting something back within some
timeframe, well, you simply remain inactive
or doing other things until that occurs.
And so, you have to have in mind that you
won't know immediately the result of that.
So you have some state somewhere that has been
saved in.. persisted in some way, whether it's
in memory or whether it's on disk, and so you
can then recall that when you're notified about
the result that you were interested in seeing.
I would love to talk about some of the concrete
experiences, but it's been everywhere
from just trying to get people to
drop the idea of everything as a REST call,
helping teams see that if they don't make those
eventually consistent
service-to-service-to-service calls that will fail
and fail daily, not necessarily in large massive
dose, but then you won't need to hire a team
or your team will be much smaller and dealing with
the inconsistent data that exists when you wake up
in the morning or throughout the day because one
of those services failed. It is really difficult
to get people to understand that and buy into
it. But again, I think it's mostly just the
kind of fear factor of doing something that seems
unfamiliar until maybe you can help them to see
that it is not completely foreign to them.
So let me hit on purposeful architecture,
the stepwise refinement, then we'll go ahead
and wrap things up by talking about the next
book that you're working on. Does that work?
Sure.
Ok. All right. So
you had previously mentioned the idea of
purposeful architecture. What is purposeful
architecture? Tell us a little bit about that.
Well, it means that the architecture has a design
that facilitates the software that the solution to
the business problem that you're trying to solve.
This means that it's reflecting
what the business needs. So,
if a developer goes in, or an architect goes in
and starts making architecture decisions early
before they've even engaged with the business,
it's like don't confuse me with the facts, I've
got my mind made up, right? You're just concluding
that we are going to use these facilities because
that's what I want to use, or that's what
we as a technical team want to use on this.
And so it's got to be Kafka, and it's got to be
Kubernetes, and it's got to be all this stuff.
For example, go to the Kubernetes leaders and
they'll be the first to tell you, you may not
want to be using Kubernetes just because it's
out there. There is a price to pay for going
there. And it does a lot of great things. I don't
want to be misunderstood that I'm knocking on
Kafka or Kubernetes. But hey, make those decisions
when you need to. That's purpose-driven. It's a
responsibility, right? It's showing that you're
responsible for your decisions and that you're
making decisions based on what you are working on.
So to kind of tie that back, we talked about
events and event-driven architecture and thinking
about things in that way to introduce resiliency,
overcome latency issues, and handle long-running
transactions or workflows, those kinds of things,
as well as many other scenarios. It sounds
like then what you're saying is purposeful
architecture is really about what does the
business need or what would it benefit from?
And so, therefore, would it benefit the business
for me to perhaps select a different approach
than maybe something that I would normally use
because there's a lot more benefit to the business
as a result? So maybe event-driven would be
beneficial in some cases, in many cases, perhaps,
as a result of that. Is that what you're
saying here with purposeful architecture?
Yes, absolutely. But also, maybe event-driven is
the very wrong thing to use in some cases, right?
If it's a simple web app that is just collecting
data and somehow you can access that data in batch
form or, you know, simple queries, maybe that's
all that you really need to do. So, yeah, it's
just really being responsible, making decisions
based on the real needs not because your mind is
already made up on how this is going to work.
Yes, those automatic decisions that we go to
just make because we've done it before, let's
do it again. We achieved success before, so
that must automatically mean we're gonna
achieve success again. When what you're
saying is slow down and be very thoughtful about
an intentional, rather than just defaulting to
either something new that's emerging or
something that we've done in the past that has
been successful. Let's reason through this
and determine the right path to the benefit.
In Chapter 8 of the book, we start
just kind of, like, taking some previous
definitions of software architecture, what is
a software architecture, right? It seems like
every book on architecture has to try to define
what software architecture is. But we show
what others have said about software
architecture, they're generally quite brief.
We wrote two small paragraphs about software
architecture. The thought that we're trying to
convey is you cannot decide what your architecture
should be until you've had communication.
The communication is going to tell
you the kinds of software, you know,
modeling that you're going to do, the kinds of
components that will need to be created. And
that might lead to, you know, one
architecture decision or another.
There are sort of some go-to architecture patterns
or styles that I think are generally always
useful, but these don't impose a certain sort of
way of using distributed computing. I would say
the hexagonal or ports and adapters architecture
is just sort of like a smart way to go. And that's
far from setting things in stone. It's actually
making the software much more flexible and capable
of introducing new mechanisms, new kinds
of databases, messaging, REST, rich GUI,
or whatever it happens to be, right, you can make
those decisions as you realize you need them.
If you look at architecture decision
records, that is what they actually are.
You're making an architecture decision
at the last responsible moment, right?
You're delaying those things purposely because
you don't know yet if you need them. Or even
you might know that you need some kind of
thing, but should it be GraphQL? Or should it be
an API gateway with different queries happening,
you know, for a single endpoint? Or do you allow
GraphQL to handle that for you? I don't know,
I can't tell you right now because we haven't
spoken enough about it. That's the real answer.
And that's fantastic. I know, when I first
started, when I was a senior developer and
I was being challenged by someone who was,
you know, encouraging me to grow in my career.
One of the things they recommended is they gave
me a list of books they gave me a stack of
books. He said, "Here's a stack of books,
I want you to read these." And some of these
are books you'd recognize and some less so.
But he said, "You know, I think you need to
start getting into software architecture,
more really start thinking at a higher level
about how all the components communicate,
how the systems communicate between one another.
This is going to stretch you and help you to
grow as a developer and go in the direction
that you feel like your career's taking you."
And so I sat down, and he must have given
me six or seven books, and not one of the
defined architecture or gave me kind of a
working model of how do I think about this?
I sort of had to derive my own perspective
from it until I had time to figure it out.
So it's exciting to me that you've
devoted some time in Chapter 8 to that.
That other coming along, whether they just need
a refresher, or they want to see a different way
than it's defined or described, or that
junior developer that's starting to try
to figure out "What is this architecture
thing? I've been coding for a while now."
Maybe they've progressed up in there and they're
starting to grow in their career and they're
trying to understand it. So that's exciting to
me to have that as part of the book as well.
Yes. And just to make a point. I mean, I think
that software architecture has been defined by
some very smart and experienced people as, like,
the parts of the software that are hard to change.
And you know what, that shouldn't be true. If
you're using the ports and adapters architecture,
you might just find that it might not be really
easy to change, but it's going to be simpler to
introduce or reintroduce different
mechanisms that you found were
insufficient for whatever reason, you know.
Say that you were using REST as a way to query
logs of events, right, that other outside
subsystems could do that, and you decide,
"Well, we're now going to use Kafka. Instead,
we're going to use, you know, Azure message bus
or whatever it happens to be, SNS, SQS from AWS.
And so we're now going to make that available."
Well, the API hopefully doesn't have to
change, or it doesn't have to change much.
And you can completely change that out,
that mechanism, the approach to doing that
without, you know, a lot of overhead. I
wouldn't want to automatically conclude
that software architecture is about
the things that are hard to change.
Although I respect that at one
time, that may have been the case.
So, as we wind down, I have two
things to discuss to wrap this discussion up. The
first thing is for those that are faced today with
some monoliths that are less than ideal, whether
they're a big ball of mud or they're just, you
know, really difficult to work with, and they're
thinking about microservices, or maybe they're
using microservices and they've encountered
some challenges or something else. What are
some recommendations that your book provides for
how to step through refining your monoliths and
microservices to make them a bit more resilient
and adaptable, how to make it easier to work with,
how to perhaps either transition to microservices
or to make it a bit less of a distributed monolith
and more, you know, of an independent series
of services that can communicate together?
How do you or how does your book approach guiding
teams that are likely in that kind of situation?
Yes. Probably the quickest way to
explain it is to say, if you're using
domain-driven design, think of either a
monolithic module as being a bounded context,
or think of a microservice as being a bounded
context, right? As in this is the way that we
deploy things. So in a monolith, if we have seven
bounded contexts, we have seven major modules
within it. And we create the same kind of
boundaries where we don't want another module
within the monolith reaching inside either
into our database directly forbid, right?
But also just using our domain model directly,
we create the same kinds of interfaces that we
would if we were on a network, but it's just that
we don't have to pay the price of the network and
the potential failures that the network is
going to sometimes require you to deal with.
So that's sort of the first guidance, and then
being purposeful. And let me just say one more
thing about that. The reason is that you can
develop much more rapidly if you are using
monoliths initially, because you're not dealing
with the failures of the network, and you're not
dealing with all the complexities of distributed
computing. So use a monolith very early, you might
learn that the monolith is just what you need
long-term. But if you need to, for whatever
reason, rate of change, or some scalability
issue, or something, if you need to break
a module out of that monolith and make it a
microservice, well, again, that's a pretty
simple, I would hope, step to achieve. But as
soon as you start tangling things up and making
one module deeply connected to another one,
forget about that. You've already lost that
opportunity unless you do a lot of rework.
So that's what we're saying is start with a
monolith, introduce microservices as you realize
that you need them. But even if you know right
away that you are going to use microservices
you're better off running everything in a
sort of single VM with, you know, multiple threads
across bounded contexts or microservices. Because,
again, you're just not going to deal with the
kinds of complexity that you can spend days or
weeks just trying to figure out a silly networking
kind of thing. And that just derails your business
value production, right? So start with the sort
of uncool way of doing things but recognize
that in the sandbox that you've created for
yourself, you're going to have a lot of traction,
you're going to move quickly. And then when
the distributed computing part of it becomes
a responsible thing to do with a purpose behind
it, then you make that decision to break them out.
That's great advice. So let's wind this down. I
hear that you're working on a second book in the
series. Can you tell us a little bit about
it, give us a little bit of a preview or
hints about it?
Yes. And I have to say, I thought that we
would be able to write the second book within a
very short time after the first book was done.
Because I got the series right after the lockdown
from COVID and everything just stopped. So here's
this great opportunity to write a couple of books.
Well, things started getting busy again sooner
than I expected. So we're about we're quite
a bit behind in the second book. So I'll just
preface that. We hope to have it out earlier.
But the second book is read the first book
and everything that you're wondering about,
how would I actually do that in code? How
would I do that with an object-oriented
language? How would I do that with a functional
programming language? How would I do that with,
you know, various architectural
mechanisms, architecture patterns,
and so forth? How would I go about doing
that? Well, that's what we are diving into
with the second book, implementing
strategic monoliths and microservices.
And so, if you know "Implementing Domain-Driven
Design," my "Red Book," well, you're going to see
a similar reflection, different code, of course,
different examples, but you're going to see that
kind of balance between content prose and, you
know, source code to a moderate extent, with
full examples available on GitHub afterward in
polyglot, right, multiple programming languages.
Oh, that's great. I can see why that's
gonna take a bit of time. I mean,
that's a lot of work ahead of you, but it's
gonna be really valuable and a great complement
to your book. Well, thanks, Vaughn, for
coming on and speaking about your book. Again,
the book title is "Strategic Monoliths and
Microservices: Driving Innovation Using Purposeful
Architecture." Vaughn, it's been great chatting
with you, and I appreciate you taking the time.
Sure, absolutely. Thank you,
James Higginbotham. Thank you GOTO.
