[Music]
Uh well, hello every everyone. Uh my
name is uh Aaron Philbeck. I'm a
managing director and head of UniFi uh
by Kaya here at Kaya Association. And uh
I'm very excited to be talking about the
uh second pillar in this total portfolio
approach uh piece that we published a
few months back. uh which is investing
through a factor lens. Uh this is
actually I think of all of the four uh
pillars that we introduce in this piece,
this is probably one of my favorites
because it hits closest to home from
some of my uh practitioner experience
before uh coming to KA association. So
before coming to Kaya, I was a portfolio
manager, worked for an RAIA uh where I
did manager selection, asset allocation
and portfolio construction and factors
uh quickly became an important part of
my process uh both from a manager
perspective but also uh from uh a total
portfolio allocation uh perspective. So
excited to be talking about some of the
takeaways and potential future
applications
uh for all of you uh when it comes to
factors. Um so why why is this uh topic
important? Um and I think it is
important for a for a couple of reasons.
one factors in general and I'll get into
defining what those actually mean are
can be very helpful in uh helping you
understand what is driving your overall
portfolio's
uh returns and uh that can be one just
understanding and understanding where
managers are coming from uh how
portfolios will move on one end on a
more extreme end it can also help you
with benchmarking and potentially even
replicating uh parts of your portfolio
in a more uh cheap taxefficient if
you're a taxable investor uh and more
targeted uh manner. And I think that's
an important exercise to to go through
and to test yourself. Um so when we talk
about factors, what we're referring to
here are systematic exposures. And
there's two levels of systematic
exposures uh that are worth mentioning.
They're mentioned in the piece uh as
well. First are macro factors. So this
is where we're talking about your
portfolio or your asset class exposure
to broader economic drivers. So that
could be economic growth, it could be
inflation, it could be interest rates,
um you know, those kind of being the the
main the big ones. uh credit spreads uh
can be thrown in there as well, but
basically what's going on in the overall
kind of macroeconomic
environment and how does your portfolio
respond uh to those different um changes
in the macro environment which I think
is very relevant particularly over the
past couple of years where we've seen a
lot of uh assumptions that we held uh
maybe pre2020
uh get really reversed and upended. So
you had interest rates that changed, you
had inflation that changed, economic uh
growth, uh certainly went through a
couple of different uh spouts uh fits
and starts uh throughout co. So the
macro perspective I think is an
important one uh uh to focus on
particularly since uh as we as we talk
about asset allocation is really a main
driver for a lot of your portfolios risk
and return uh profiles. Um the second
which I think is where a lot of the
industry has spent a lot of time
particularly on the public market uh
side but creeping into the private
markets are style factors. So this is
really where you're seeing drivers of
return at the manager level and uh
stylistic choices part of their
investment process uh and decomposing uh
those returns into systematic exposures.
So uh in equities that might be uh value
investing, momentum investing, quality
investing uh on fixed income it might be
interest rates and credit spreads but
also some of those styles I mentioned as
well uh you know cheap versus expensive
quality uh and so on. So both of those
are important uh from a portfolio
perspective because you're not only
creating an asset allocation uh but
you're also selecting managers most of
the time um to deliver on uh those uh
particular outcomes. Why this is
important is because focusing on factors
really removes the label um of a
particular fund or a strategy and
decomposes it into what's actually going
to drive it. And you can do that at a
total portfolio level or a total port
portfolio approach to understand what is
driving the overall asset allocation uh
return profile ignoring and completely
agnostic to what the name of the fund is
or the asset class that it's supposedly
uh invests in. Um so it allows you to uh
one look at your portfolio and say um
are there overlapping exposures that I
didn't know about? Are there uh places
of the portfolio that are missing? Um
perhaps I'm underexposed to inflation
protection, but I'm overexposed to uh
GDP growth. Um and so making some of
those decisions uh and having further
insight into the overall portfolio can
be very very helpful. It also can be
helpful when it comes to sourcing um
future managers, future strategies where
you can supplement or even uh diversify
against either uh missing or overlapping
uh exposures.
So um again when I when I was in uh the
industry and and uh responsible for
portfolios um I used a lot of factor
analysis at both the portfolio level and
the manager uh selection uh level. Um
and I thought it was very very helpful
particularly at the overall portfolio
level um to get a a more of a a detailed
view of what was going to drive my
portfolio. you know, you you tend to see
those statistics that a 60/40 portfolio
to be very simple is 90% or so driven by
equity risk. Um, most portfolios when
you think about just a traditional um
even a portfolio that has some
alternatives in it, but a traditional
portfolio is usually dominated by
economic growth um as kind of their
primary factor. So you may have only 60%
in equities, but if you have high yield,
if you have private equity, you have
private credit, there's a lot of factor
loads to economic uh growth. And so you
want you want to think about that
depending on where you are in the cycle
and what the overall objective of the
portfolio is. If you're a more defensive
investor or you have an investor that is
prioritizing fixed income for example uh
because they're trying to protect
capital maybe have distributions into
retirement having a full factor load to
economic growth uh could be uh could be
problematic. Um I mentioned before it's
also helpful in identifying gaps and
overlaps uh and it's also very helpful
uh when it comes to sourcing. um if you
notice that um your portfolio is loaded
to a factor or missing a factor, that
should be a priority um if you're trying
to uh counterbalance
uh that factor as well. So, how should
you think about this moving forward in
your own portfolios? Um well, there's
been a lot of work that's been done on
the public side of the markets. You saw
a lot of smart beta products coming out
uh throughout the 2010s. uh factor
investing kind of came in vogue and and
went, but it's still very relevant in
the public uh domain. Um private markets
is an area where we're starting to see a
lot more research and a lot more focus
uh being taken. And I think what's going
to be interesting is how those two come
together because there's a lot of
overlapping similarities between the
public um and the private markets. One
of the big challenges though is data. Um
there's a lot of data, there's a lot of
history in the public markets. Um so
it's easier to kind of make some uh to
make some quantitative analysis around
the public side of your portfolio. In
the private markets, uh there's less uh
less frequent data, usually quarterly
marks. There's also uh not as long of a
history uh of the private markets and
it's very manager driven um at the same
time. So whereas we have a lot of uh
data on kind of broad-based indices on
the public equity market or fixed income
market, you're really dealing manager by
manager um in the private market. So
there's a lot of work to be done, but
you can still make some uh more
intuitive maybe qualitative judgment
calls if you don't have access to data
um and uh really kind of focus on those
drivers. Equity being driven by equity
risk, credit being driven by uh credit
risk um and so on. So there's a
quantitative qualitative trade-off that
occurs uh there as well.
Um in addition um I I think one of the
uh approaches that you can take is just
the intuition um behind what is driving
returns uh and where you're at in the
life cycle. Um so equity for example,
venture capital is going to be much more
sensitive um to some of the economic
environments uh potentially inflation
due to costs and so on. Credit is going
to have much more sensitivity to credit
spreads um and so on. Um, but I think
it's important even if there's not as
enough research or enough data that's
available at this point to start
thinking through this because it allows
you to kind of move above uh the labels
of the funds themselves uh the asset
class labels uh you know that might
occur. Uh so hopefully you found this
helpful as you're venturing into total
portfolio approach and reading through
this piece. I think there's a lot of
applications uh that can be taken away
from the factor perspective. I mentioned
data. I mentioned the public versus
private. Um but also measurement uh as
well. There's different ways to measure
a lot of these different factors. Uh so
hopefully that was helpful. Um and uh
look forward to continuing this
conversation around TPA.
[Music]
