My name is Marwan Marie, I am
negotiator. I spend my time on the
field to manage situations
sensitive, complex issues that involve
critical cases. Everything that is
kidnapping, ransom, extortion,
suicidal, a lot of business negotiation,
social conflicts.
But your story still makes you
living thanks to a negotiation hor
loss.
Yeah, exactly. In fact, the 6
December 1975 in Lebanon, what is called
Black Saturday. And on that day, there was
437 people who were murdered.
There were three survivors, my mother, my
father and I. Our education makes us
to say that the manipulation is going well. But
In fact, we need to get rid of this
concept because we all manipulate at
daily, whether we like it or not.
If we had to remember one rule of
negotiation that one must have all its
life,
It's about never being egotistical, in fact, this
What needs to be clearly distinguished is the
position, objective and stakes. There
Position, it's very simple. That's it
which will be displayed by the part
adversary. The goal is the hope of
guard, what he seeks to obtain in
the framework for negotiation. And again in
underneath, that's the most important thing.
the issue. What is the part about?
The opposing party will never compromise. And all
The difficulty with ego is to
understand the objective and the stakes because
that in nearly 100% of cases, they are
hidden.
At ZF, we're at Frank Zorn's. You
I don't know Frank Zorn, maybe?
Franck Franck is a regular or in
In any case, a guest from the self-generation group
And so this week we had
the opportunity to record in his
desk. So this was the W Hotel.
is above the Apple Store in Opé
And, uh, since our... was stolen
studio this week
Well, uh, we have, that's business, we have
found a way to rent it and then
Someone took it all from us.
week, we finally took responsibility then
Franck welcomed us here. It's beautiful
wow, that's really something.
So, to thank them, come
watch what they do. off, it's a
office space is a bit like a
I don't know, maybe a luxury coworking space
what, in which you can rent
meeting rooms, you can come, there are
A restaurant, we're still pretty comfortable
The welcome was magnificent and very
well positioned.
Marwan Mary, it's been a long time since we
exchange near and far
for one episode. I was telling you at
At the moment, there are a few of you who
to dabble in this world of
negotiation,
of lies,
persuasion, manipulation. On
will talk about lots of things that are
They're ultimately quite close, obviously. Uh, I have
recorded with one of former associates
that we both adore, Laurent
Combalbert
uh, who was at the Red, uh, with uh
David Corona, who was in the GIGN, uh, and
Um, and you, have you worked a little?
also in all these universes since
Not always, actually. It is
it came uh
afterwards. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
But your story still means that
You are alive thanks to a negotiation
Unparalleled, if I understand correctly. No,
from my father especially. My father of your
father. Yeah, exactly. Exactly.
I was born under the bombs on the 29th
September 1975 in Beyouth, Lebanon. My
father was, unfortunately, he is
deceased, now Lebanese, my mother
French. And in fact, we met up again
in a somewhat unusual situation
in the sense that my father found himself
under the execution platform. So. My
Mother was sidelined; I was with her and
literally under the pectoral muscle.
Yeah, exactly. And in fact, my father
managed to negotiate in this instance at
Release. While on that day 437
people were executed.
And, uh, I don't know if you want me to...
tells the whole story, but it's at
That's pretty much what happened. And uh and
uh, and so, as my father told me
OK. Yeah, very good. So if I tell you, if
I want you to hear the whole story,
the first time my father told me
I had told this story, and then...
I was 12 years old. So we are on the 6th
December 1975. I will invite you to
to find out more about this date in Lebanon, this
which is called Black Saturday.
OK. So what's going on?
So, I'm a few months old, uh, we
lives in Damour, so not very far away
uh, from Beouth. In any case, Lebanon
is a small country and my parents
drive down to Beyouth because
that we have a very harsh winter.
They actually want to buy me some
clothes for, uh, for winter and then
Well, they do their little errand and then
at the moment they want to leave Beou,
they realize they can't
Do it because, well, everything is
completely blocked. And what is it that
What happened? it's because you have some
Muslim militias that ruled the bah
barriers, that's what they are, in retaliation for...
atrocities committed by fallangers
Christian the day before. So the war of the
Lebanon, like most wars, this
These are never religious wars, but
religion is often used
unfortunately to unite the
peoples. So, to put it simply, we
We are Maronite Christians. So
and in this case, they are...
Muslims who want revenge
precisely because some Christians
were able to do. And so you have militias
Muslim militias that pass among
the cars that are all stopped
There you go, because indeed they have
Everything's blocked and then he asks you...
Get your ID card because
at that time in Lebanon as in Egypt there
had your card, your religion
Yeah, that was written on your card
identity
so my father when the militiamen
When they reach our level, he asks us
to lower the window, he asks us
your identity card, so you need to
Imagine there's my father and my mother who
are in front and I am sitting at
the back and I have a few months and my
father used the pretext of not having it for
obvious reasons. So they make us
get out of the car and then he
They search the car and they open the
glove box and opening the glove box
glove well he can actually see the map
my father's identity and religion and
At that moment he said "OK
"Take them away." So that was it, he did the
Women were separated from men, the
children were thrown into garages
And so I, like my mother, was
French, he didn't really know what to do
So I managed to stay close to her
of her because normally he
also separated the children and the
men were brought behind the dunes
because Beou is by the sea
and they were executed. And so my
Father is taken there, he is
kneeling, hands behind his back, a
blindfolded and every 10
seconds later, he hears an explosion.
There you go. And people actually fall
like sacks of potatoes that we
would have, uh, thrown and, uh, and it's up to him
turn and he smells the caliber, uh, cold, uh
against his own blow, what. And then he knows
that these are these last moments
but he has the presence of mind to
turn around and tell the militiaman if
If you kill me, you will...
A big mistake. The guy responds firmly
Shut your mouth anyway, I'm going to...
to kill. My father told him
"Actually, I play poker with your
Muslim colonel and if he were to
to take, obviously, he would take it
"Certainly very, very bad." And all that,
It's true. In this case, if he played
really playing poker with the Muslim conel
And the guy tells him, "Anyway, I'm going to..."
"To kill you." And my father said to him, "But
You can clearly see that I have no power
about you, and besides, if you realize
that I lied to you, you will only have to
"Empty your charger into my skull." To
At that moment, there was a doubt that
germinates in the mind of the Muslim who says
from the militiaman, "Ben, go call the
"Colonel." And my father, he had a
incredible memory at the time, and so
he even gives the phone number of
colonel. So there's his militia friend
who leaves, they return 2 minutes later
late and on his way back, he said "Ben
released." And on that day, there were 437
people who were murdered. There's
had three survivors, my mother, my father
and me. And so when my father told me
told this story at the age of 12
years ago, in fact, he had said a sentence to me
which had made a strong impression on me. had told me "You
You'll see, they are often people
ordinary people who do things
extraordinary." And he was talking to me
of optimism. And so I think
that indeed this story has
In some ways, the profession was also shaped by it.
I was able to do it later
Also.
You must have been dwelling on this because
that you want, I want, I have
lots of things that come to mind
but ordinary people who do
extraordinary things.
Oh yeah, absolutely. Yeah. In fact, for
As for me, superheroes, they are... they are
in cemeteries. People who
think they are invading, who have
Never afraid or anything, that's it.
does not exist. Fear serves us.
protect from danger. And what I have
What I especially understood was that things
extraordinary acts are committed above all
and made by humans who have a
moment in history, you see, they equip themselves
of unparalleled courage and make
things that maybe other people
would not have done so. But it still remains when
even humans. And I think and my
Our father saved us thanks to this.
What. So.
How do you see that?
I don't know to what extent you did
Faced with that. Maybe that's not where you
that's your zone of genius, you know. I know
Nothing. But courage is something
something where you see, uh, I want to, I
I train and I always try to be
brave and to tell me, look, when there
has something to do that nobody wants
To do it, or to be the one who says
OK, I'll take it, I'm going to be that
nobody there
But you say it's always about
little things in life, you see
small things, no big things, well that can
to be more or less big, but on the other hand
it's never a gun on the te
etc. Do you think we can
To practice that? Do you believe
that we can, uh, there is, there is, uh, I, I
I think the worst thing would be me.
In my story, it would be about being
forever perceived as a coward, you
see. I
So, practicing that, I would say yes
No. Because you need to know this,
that's what will structure
Deep down, that's what we are, it remains
our education, our environment
sociocultural and our lived experience. Uh, you
See, for example, within DNA, we
trains thousands of people every year.
I work with very high-level executives
and when you have leaders by
examples that are conflict-avoidance
because they lived in
Very sterile environments, you see.
very sweetened, as soon as we see them
It shakes them up a bit, but since it's
profoundly unnatural, it is
It's actually difficult for them to
to get rid of, well, all of that experience,
the education they were able to receive. So he
There are things that can be changed,
That's for sure, marginally, and then there's
people who also reveal themselves
in action. That's the beauty of the
thing. We see this in crisis management,
You see when everything falls apart. You see
for example someone who
It doesn't look like much, whether it's a man or not
or a woman, who doesn't know herself
himself and finally you know that you don't
I can finally assess the value
of a person who, in adversity or
in the opportunity. You know, both
are important too, but here we're going to
to speak simply about adversity. And there you
I sometimes see people who
reveal, they tell you "But I have
I've never been faced with this situation.
but they manage to mobilize the
resources to cope." And that
Again, as long as you don't have it
experienced this in this instance, you cannot
know. That's why you see you have
There are always people giving lessons
with a full mouth. That's super simple
to do it. That's when everything
collapses, you really look at who who
is capable of doing. It's a bit like
When you get divorced, you see. You had
full of friends and then finally he
You have very little left. After
The analogy is quite funny. I
Have you ever done an escape game?
?
Yeah.
It's quite funny how
You see people who reveal themselves in
That kind of stuff. That's crazy. Me, I
finds that it is when under this
a kind of simulated stress pressure
time, of the and so forth, there is
I have a ton of friends. I who have me who
They impressed me quite a bit.
Ah yes, absolutely. That's why
Once again, what is interesting
in fact, confronting people with
adversity but also to
the opportunity. That's interesting. You
I always know people who will tell you
"I would never do that. There, I have
values ​​that are very strong. I have
moral principles." and then
Finally, you can offer them a
opportunity and relinquish their value
There you go, to accept it. And in fact, you
You realize that ultimately these people, well,
they somehow managed to
to convince someone of having good principles
morals, but uh, faced with the opportunity,
therefore any potential gain whatsoever,
You see, they manage to give up
their values. So it was more like
beliefs rather than values.
There is a number that is more
than all the others when one is
entrepreneur, when you manage a
company, it's the small number that
is in the bottom right corner of your invoice. THE
The problem is that behind this number,
There are countless others
numbers and what weighs on the days of
The delays, the numerous reminders, the
unpaid bills that are found
never in these emails, in short, the whole
administrative hassle, the kind that...
hates everyone. In 2026, billing
Electronic electronics become mandatory.
Forget the endless follow-ups, the
Lost PDFs, the paperwork that eats everything up
your time. And to be ready on the day
I propose one thing: choose
the electronic invoicing tool
The one that best suits you. And then,
no need to overcomplicate things because
that you have Conto, my partner who
is 100% compliant and already operational.
Conto is the French pro account that
I've been using it and recommending it for a while now.
always. More than 600,000 entrepreneurs
have adopted. And the advantage of accounting,
it's what ? and that you have a
a complete solution. You have
your professional account and your invoicing
compliant electronics in the same place
without paying for an additional tool and
You can create an invoice in one minute.
And then the follow-ups are done in one
click. Bill reconciliation
The transaction is automatic and in this
Use code 1850 for €50
discount on your subscription without
commitment. So if you too
do you want to focus on the good
Numbers, not paperwork, come on!
at conto. It's conto.com/facturation
q on to t.com/facturation.
Okay, let's watch the episode.
That reminds me of something, uh, not
a current obsession, something that
I looked at it and I find it very
Interesting, that's the Beast Games. You have
Do you have children?
I have three.
How old are they?
They are 17, 12 and 6.
Ah, so you must have some of the Beast
Game at home, you see. Mister Beast.
No, I don't know. I'm sorry.
He's the American meta-influencer and
Inside, in fact, there are a lot of
gambling, but then, and it's not
He's a very...
healthy, finally, he gives a lot and
etc., but it's still just games
money, what on YouTube
And, uh, and on Amazon Prime I think, and
In fact, there's always that, and in fact
People betray each other and finally... but
to kill really the two who are
those who say to themselves, "But yeah, we are..."
is bros to life, to death, and so on and
I find it quite crazy on the
opportunities after you'll ex me
explain. I'm going to ask you to
Introducing Marwan, but uh
Actually, you're telling me about opportunity, uh, I
I find that in French we have one. Me, I
readily qualifies
opportunistic.
Uh, I mean, I see things
who pass in front of me and when well
I like them, they are
interesting.
So I think we can, we can...
Enter them, we can create them
Opportunities, huh? We're talking about luck
opportunities, we can talk about plenty of
things. I, I have a tendency to
Jump on it, you see. Right away
to associate the opportunity with at least one
something where you abandon your values, you abandon
your principles. And I think that
Perhaps in France, we associate a little
All of this is too much, the word someone
opportunistic, we see everything
following this as something negative.
Nave. Yeah, absolutely. Quite.
Um, so, it's
as I see things, in
the occurrence, the opportunity that you
Speak up, it represents a vulnerability
human. So. Um, I have a lot
betrayed on this subject for a very, very long time
for a very long time. There are nine for me
vulnerabilities that are structural and
As with you, a partial vulnerability.
knowing that on average we have two or
three per, uh, that's it, per individual, the
individuals have on average two or
Three is still an opportunity. You as well
For me, we are sensitive to opportunities
which may in fact be linked to
business, status, uh, or
encounters, there you have it, of certain
people. After,
You call that a weakness?
That's a vulnerability, of course. Well
Yes, yes, you see it for example, you
Madve reminds me.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's right. So he promised
he promised forgiveness 12% return on
investment. All right. Guarantee.
So. And so, in fact, you have a lot of
people who have finally, let's say
Taken the bait.
And it was mostly people who were
Well, like you and me, I can
The being, in fact, is quite sensitive to everything.
that's when you think, well, there you go, so we have a
critical thinking that goes somewhere in
It makes you lower your guard a little.
Well yes, because once again, we have
this great opportunity that can be
to present. And unlike others such as
for example my wife who is not from
all sensitive in terms of vulnerability
At the right moment, she'll tell you "No
But wait, it's a scam, it's not
possible in this case since as much
no rate on the market can
to present that." And we, somewhere, we
loses some of his discernment by saying
"Ah, it could still be
interesting." And so, it remains
a vulnerability such as what can be found there
also have.
Yes. But when you're not sensitive to
Opportunity also means that you
You're letting a lot of opportunities slip by.
Clearly. Clearly. That's why
that once again, it's a concept of
risk/benefit. And I'm like
Actually, I built my life on you.
depending on the opportunities I was able to
seizing and also risks
partners. And you have people who have a
deep aversion to risk, therefore they will
to have a level of opportunity finally we
I'd rather say an appetite for
the opportunity which is going to be quite
weak.
So that's why for me the two
are linked. But being opportunistic, in
the fact is ultimately not
to take advantage in the wrong sense of the word
of an opportunity. It remains to be
finally sensitive to opportunities
which may arise. What is
important in this instance, as we were saying,
it's about maintaining a level of
discernment and a fairly good critical mind
raised because, remember Madov,
that's nearly 60 billion in
the occurrence that he was able to, in quotation marks
steal what?
I was saying something about Madof
recently, someone said he was a
Not very self-deceived. That is to say, at the beginning,
he kind of believed in his thing and then
at one point he let himself
embark. Yeah.
But regarding the opportunities there, you
You see, that reminds me of
So, in fact, there's often... we'll
This can all be a bit gendered,
But you see, around me, I see
people who are potentially going to have a
an opportunity, I'm using quotation marks
No, a real opportunity to have
a job and they'll say "No, but
I don't have the stuff
for this job. I am not enough
competent, I don't have, and then there are others who
will have the approach completely
The opposite, in fact, is that they don't have the stuff.
For the job that is offered to them, they
They know somewhere, they tell themselves "No
But anyway, I'm going there, I'm going there.
I'm going to have it, I'm going to acquire it, I
I'm going to get fat, I'm going to grow, I'm going to
"I'm going to improve." Uh
It's still somewhat the story of the
life, but there comes a time when you have to...
If you want to progress, you have to know how to be
opportunistic.
Yeah, we're in complete agreement. And
It's true that you can have some
Ultimately limiting beliefs that you
They say, and it's true when you talk.
of that kind, in this case I don't like it
to do that but to train a lot
of men and women, and it's true that
Women often have beliefs
not very limiting by saying well no but in
that instance, I don't need it or
Either it's not at my level, that's it, and
Once again, I am not generalizing.
Not at all, but actually
knowing that it is potentially or
Probably cultural, not necessarily
biological, you see clearly, clearly
and in fact, as we can see from the outside
It's extremely interesting.
You see, we're training, we have different
levels of training in negotiation, by
For example, if we're talking about negotiation. So you
See, you have Essential, Advanced, Expert.
pro and then final. And in fact, what
That's interesting, yeah. Finally, that's it.
Exactly.
At level and Shall, you see the first
Honestly, you have just as many men.
than women. OK.
Really, really. And the higher you climb,
The more women there are, the more they disappear. At
At level 3 or 4, you have almost no more
women. And often, I ask them the
When asked, they tell me, "Oh, but me,
I don't need that level, my
"The position does not require it." Whereas when
You ask guys, in fact, they
He doesn't ask those questions, he...
I'll be better equipped, so I
take.
And so, in fact, you also have
many people who will limit themselves
others who don't have the
skills and, for once, who will
evaluate themselves and who will be awarded it, we will
to say, at a level of competence that they
do not have. It's a bit like the Don effect
Krugeger, whom you must know well. No
no no
Nick Krueger's actions are super
interesting. not when I'm told that
You must know this well and answer it.
Sorry, no, it happens to me a little.
She's happy with her humility, look!
Clemence, you see
And yes, because why am I telling you this?
that's what we often ask the
people to self-position by
For example, in your opinion, what is your
Noogo level, okay, that's it
What's interesting is that
Well, final boss, obviously.
and often men tend to
necessarily assigning oneself a level that
does not necessarily reflect what they are
And again, I'm generalizing.
voluntarily and women they will
rather, in fact, to underestimate oneself and
Where does the Don Krueger effect come from? I
She tells you the story, it's just
Brilliant. It's 1995 in Pittsburgh.
UNITED STATES
whose name is Arthur McQuiller.
In one day, he will rob two
banks with their faces uncovered.
OK.
So obviously in the evening, he's going to...
caught by the police.
Ah, OK. I'm going or
During the interrogation, he will be asked
show the videos, well, of him obviously
he was robbing banks and he
Watch the videos. He said, "Wait,
It's crazy, yet I was wearing juice
"Lemon." And then, the police
They don't understand. And actually, you know,
To make invisible ink, we use
lemon juice. And so, he had
splashed lemon juice on his face
hoping that his head might disappear.
This is a true story. And then, the
The guys were saying, "But how can we be
"Also, roughly?" Yeah, if I
I can allow myself. So in '99, you have
two shrinks named Donning and
Krugeger who led a big
analysis, a meta-analysis, and they are
basically realized that people
Less competent people tend to
overestimating their skill level,
[ __ ].
While the most competent people
tend to underestimate their level
competence. And that's what we call
a little bit, you know, ultra-crepidarianism
that you need to know.
Yes, by a long shot indeed.
You know, that's ultra-cryptitarianism.
We saw it a lot during Covid,
It's actually to people who are going to talk
of subjects he does not master.
Oh yeah
Yeah, awful.
Yeah, so you know, you always have
a tent that's a virologist, that's it
During Covid, here's a name that is
expert on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict or
That sort of thing.
Of course.
And so that's what ultra is.
In fact, I myself am an expert in
You know all that. So I know very well
Professor Raoul and all that
said is true.
And so it's true that we all have
the occurrence we all tend
precisely to talk about subjects that we don't
I don't have control when it's more
It's dangerous when you have a promise.
public, in fact. That's all. And
So ultracrepidarianism comes from
the Latin phrase which means that the
The shoemaker should not speak beyond
His shoe, you see. And uh, so we
I see it a lot on people who
can speak on topics
which they don't necessarily control. But
when the subjects are of vital importance,
So, whether societal or structural, that's it.
where it can be a little more
complicated. And in fact, the Ning effect
Kroeger came from there to talk
indeed, people who ultimately
self-position with a very high level
raised when it does not reflect
necessarily the level they can
to have. So.
Yeah. A little humility in that, you know?
and of, but also of, foresight, but
especially what you said, right, knowing how to
position
uh
That's really important. It is, it is
I really think so, and you see, I am
still in the challenge so
I like it too, uh, come on, that's wrong
knowing how to position oneself, but one must always
to manage to be a little bit at the
At the very least, you see. That is to say, if you want
To progress, one must succeed in...
always put, you see, earlier.
I was talking about my skiing accident. I'll
I was saying, well
Actually, I have no regrets because
There you go, but I clearly went off-topic.
You see, it's limited. So, uh, it shouldn't have been
I did it, I have no regrets.
cut. Uh
Marwan, uh, can I...
Would you please like to introduce yourself?
Yeah, of course.
Who are you? Marwan Marie.
So my name is Marwan Mary, I'm 50
married for years,
three children and in life I am
negotiator
and I also have a specialty in
lie detection. So when I
I'm talking about negotiation, and I come across as
to put it simply, about 50% of my
time spent on the ground managing
sensitive, complex situations, therefore
which involve critical cases. All
This involves kidnapping and ransom.
extortion, uh, suicidal, runomware,
uh, a lot of commercial noo.
social conflicts, that's it, many too
diplomatic relations because I
I am a consultant for the United Nations
and this also affects the relationship
patient. So, faced with patients who
suffer from chronic illnesses and who
refuse to take their medication.
So we are joining the fight against
Non-compliance with treatment. So.
Observance for those who know
no, it's therefore the act of taking one's
treatments or not to take it.
Therefore, observance means not taking it.
Exactly. It is the act of adhering to the
medical prescription. Exactly. And
Uh, and so that's 50% of the amount
on the field and the rest of the time
It's about training and conferences.
or teaching, uh, at Harvard and
uh, and then, uh, and then, and then of
writing. Harvard, you're going there?
So, online actually, because it's
beauty, let's say since Covid and
now the rooms are good
equipped.
So even if we lose that contact, I
Do all of this online. Exactly.
Harvard Kennedy School. Exactly. And
uh, if you, or when you, do
Uh, sorry, you were talking about your 50% 50%
when you train, uh, leaders or
Things like that, you consider
Not like negotiation. You have
negotiations, you said
potentially, uh, social in
companies. That's really the
originally the core of your profession. And
Today, you will also train in...
I don't know about prevention or leaders
what you were talking about earlier being
best negotiator. That's it.
That's it. Yeah, exactly. in shape
all types of people since we are in
form between 3000 and 4000 per year. So this
which is pretty good because I have some
teams also of about thirty
people within DNA. Our offices
are in Paris in the 6th arrondissement and then we have
antennas to the right, to the left, in other
countries and we actually train all types of
professions precisely to improve
negotiating because we are all
required to negotiate on a daily basis that we
wants to or doesn't want to. So, that could be
indeed, directors
sales representatives, senior managers
account, accountants, financiers
and then, and then everything we can...
one can imagine. And that's what we'll say
Negotiation represents 80% of our business. And
we also intervene on all the
related topics such as the detection of
lying, stress management, the
leadership. So.
OK. Then, because you're bored, you kill.
Books too.
Uh yeah, I wrote one.
ten. Yeah, absolutely. Alright.
The latest one, the one that's going to come out
It's called the elegance of manipulation.
April 16, 2026. Uh, so I didn't get
Well, I'm still lucky to have the chance to read them. You
Come on, you just took out the comments
Is that what you call it? THE
the trials. Uh
But I think it's good because this
which is difficult to handle
It's a bit like before, I'll tell you
I was talking about, we're going to get a feel for things
words that are swear words.
Opportunism earlier, the
Manipulation is pretty much the same. Me,
I learned it
by reading in particular the power quote
unlimited. The first time I saw
the manipulation under a good a good
corner. You see what this book is about?
Anthony Robin?
And uh, so he's talking more about man
So there is external manipulation involved.
but also talks about
self-manipulation internal manipulation
What. Um, and um, and actually it's just
to put an end to something that already exists.
That is to say, the manipulation of
anyway, the way you
you dress, the way you
behave, in everything you do, you
interact with people finally where
The manipulation begins, that's the whole
What's the question?
Yeah, exactly. Actually, it's true.
that our Judeo-Christian education
leads us to believe that manipulation is
not good, basically, to put it simply, and the
Influence is good. But in fact, he
We need to get rid of this notion because
that we all manipulate on a daily basis that we
Whether he wants it or not.
Uh, you see, and often it's even...
report. You see, for example, the
So, when you're going to tailor your CV...
in a way
so that your recruiter notices you
In a different way, you'll manipulate it. When
your child is using a sick excuse to avoid
going to school, actually, well, he's going to...
manipulate. But that, somewhere, we
accepts it. So, that's why for
I often remember the difference
Between the two, that remains the intention. That
The intention remains because sometimes
one can manipulate for one's own purposes
superior interest which is very positive
and we can obviously influence in
the opposite case. So that's why
Ultimately, these borders remain.
very porous between influence and
handling. What is needed is just
Ultimately, what you need to remember is the gesture.
The technique, that is, what intention is there?
Behind all this is manipulation.
We all have an influence on each other every day.
And me first. And me first.
Yes, it stinks, it's funny because
when you said Judeo-Christian everything
At the time, I thought to myself, well, besides, at
The basic point is that we all manipulate, we
They're all being manipulated. That is to say, you
Take religions, uh, you're never
uh, you never pray enough, never enough
Well, you never go far enough, uh...
things, you're never finally necessary
You must cleanse yourself of your sins. Finally, you
are yourself in some form of always
general manipulation, basically.
Obviously,
Exactly. And in fact the worst part is
The thing is, if you decide not to
not to influence the other or not to
to manipulate it, that means
to say that you are relying on goodwill
on the other hand.
Which means that if he then you
He manipulates and he will do it in order to be able to
to exist because we are touching in
research in this case, you said it
opportunities, status, position
social. Well, unfortunately you
You will have to submit to the other. In
That's why we don't have another one.
The choice is to have to influence, or even to
manipulate in our daily lives. Actually,
This is the very condition of our species.
And humanity has built itself on that.
Whether we want it or not.
Hm.
So the question is, is it about the
to become aware, to ask oneself, uh, why
I do it, uh, finally somewhere
you go back to basics which will be
It's practically good and evil, basically.
Exactly. The intention. That's why
that in fact for me, like the border
is very subtle, for me behind all of this
That remains the intention. But afterwards,
Once again, you have situations where
You should be influencing rather than manipulating.
When I'm dealing with a suicidal person, you see, if
I had to manipulate it, maybe by
I will arrive in 15 minutes or 30 minutes.
to turn it over. But the risk is
that he goes home thinking "But
Finally, the guy went back into
my head and he pushed me to do something
"Something I didn't want to do." By
On the other hand, if I go and influence him,
that is to say, if I induce a
desired behavior in him and which
Once again, he is aware that this
behavior comes from itself and not
Not from me, the change is going to be
also sustainable. That's why
often in manipulation, you can
to have in fact a temporality which is
much more short-term than in
influence. For what ? Because in
Ultimately, the influence is that you
trigger awareness among
the other so that the other considers
he himself said it was the best solution
for him. So you're going to tell me, "Wait
Marwan is a bit of a...
"Manipulation as well." But yet another
Sometimes it all remains very important to them. That
The question is, where is it?
Where does the influence end? Where and how it is
Manipulation? The limit is not
clear. That's not scientific.
I imagine.
Exactly. Exactly. It's necessary
accept it. We have to accept it. And then
uh, interesting, I'd like to come back to
influence and manipulation indeed.
Uh, but uh, to just get back to the
sources for this book, uh
What do you want to propose to us on
The elegance of manipulation? H So,
It made us think of Clémence
to that Bible which was I am looking for it
I no longer have it in front of me.
Influence and manipulation indeed, which has
An old book, what, years old?
Yeah. 70, I'd say, that's Robert.
Sialdini super
and which laid the foundations of influence
uh, and manipulation. He sold
in fact more than 5 million
of books. What is
OK, that's what I wish for you. We're going
Let's do the double together.
Marwan
and who once again has a superb
a work to lay the foundations precisely
somewhere of influence. After
it's this work, uh, even if it remains
a reference, it is rather intended, we
go tell some car salesmen in
Minnesota in the 1970s. Uh
even if, once again, the principles
remain universal, but really
And, uh, and me, actually, if what I...
I was saying, or rather what I was saying, I have
I wrote about ten books and I
I thought to myself, if I were to have a
a work that must outlive me, that's it, I
I say this with all humility in my life, that
there remains, uh, the work that I just...
to write, uh, because I have...
He'll say the same thing to the next one, I
I'll tell you right away, but
He is manipulating you.
I started this book a while ago
More than 6 years with nothing to hide. there's
I'm over 6 years old and I've always
So, should I publish it or not?
Because unlike the others
books, I will deliver many
secrets basically how to return
someone. And so, there you have it, I thought to myself
Listen, you see, I turned 50 in
Last September, there it was, the 29th
September and uh and I wanted to well
Finally, you see, I delivered this
In my battle against myself, I lost, and in
In fact, I thought to myself, "OK, the work will
to get out and the goal, once again, is
it has no virtue or pretension of
anything at all, but it was about having
a work that is both modern and
which goes much further in the
psychological factors, in particular for
to be able to crack certain beliefs or
to effectively induce change in
people.
Well, you're quick-witted, so I can...
go. If I wanted to push you a little
In your corner, I could...
to say but uh
I'd gladly go, and excuse me, but he
There's no "it's more to push things along"
Open house. I could say but
Who are you, Marwan Marie, to do this?
? You see, you're not a psychologist, you have
It hasn't been like Corona and our friend
Combalbert
to the RAID or the GIGN.
Uh, where did you get that idea from?
manipulation and influence
?
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Uh, I have
I didn't do that, I did other things
Effectively.
Um, so then, you want me to
I'm telling you about what I've done in my life.
and why did I have
Yeah. Yeah. Yes, it's about letting
the idea behind this question, uh, not
Not nice at all.
Yeah. Oh no, not at all, not at all.
That's interesting. It's been now
Well, I'm 27 years old, I do negotiation and in
the anego obviously you resort to
influence or manipulation
particularly to be able to induce the
change in someone. That's the
First point. Also for 13 years,
I worked in gambling circles
clandestine methods for spotting cheaters
professionals, and so I passed on
uh, quite a few interrogations
maintenance. What I kept doing
to do but not necessarily in order to
casinos now as part of
fraud or certain interrogations
a little sensitive, especially for
extracting information without the knowledge of
people. Okay, and then collect
precisely this information and
determine the credibility of certain
remarks. So I worked on some
hundreds, obviously hundreds of
topics where, as you manage the factor
human in this case, well, you're obliged
somewhere to have a certain foundation
in operational psychology. I don't have
I studied psychology even though I'm training
many psychologists and psychiatrists but
in this case
My competence comes primarily from
ground and then also
that's what I strongly believe in
Sorry, I'm not sure, it's not just the
degrees that count but but
also what happened, uh, it's
that there was quite a while ago
In fact, I had been spotted by the
special operations the COS the comm of
special operations and, uh, in particular
by Huc Desgot who was who became
my boss when I was in operations
special.
In fact, he had heard about me.
He had seen me in training and he wanted
to know if what I was doing was
ultimately, it's about what is acquired or what is innate.
So, he submitted my application to
commander of special operations. I
I came back after 2 years of
test as a specialist officer.
So.
OK.
And, uh, and that, I did that during
for years. And so I was fine
somewhere influential reference point and
crisis negotiation. The goal was
finally to operationalize these
concepts there to make them the most
accessible as possible. And so I have
evolved in rather sensitive environments
also where, well obviously, I had to
to influence the perceptions of others.
But the most important thing in all of this,
that's because, finally, I'm coming back
That's because, ego-wise, you need
to influence, in quotation marks,
manipulate certain people. SO
everything, let's say, my little bit of knowledge comes
first and foremost, on the ground. Then, he was
structured, that's why I wrote
books. And Hug, who was my boss
in special operations, he was
also a psychologist.
H
And in fact, the beauty of some
things, it was the fact of working
With him, he would tell me, "Marwan,
We are able to explain that.
scientifically. That actually falls under
purely within your area of ​​expertise. So then
Unfortunately, we won't know.
operationalize or industrialize it
because there are things that we like
You said it, right? We're influenced by our
behavior and you can finally
to give the same tools to certain
people. They won't necessarily
to achieve the same result. And so this
What was also interesting was...
to think, well, ultimately, behind what
I can do it in a somewhat empirical way.
or automatically name these
techniques are there to make them
accessible to the greatest number of people. Hence
also the release of this book
extra.
I'll buy it. Uh
I remember, for me there are some in
I don't want to... these two other episodes
I'm going to stop comparing, but what
That interests me too, it's one of the things
things that will really
greatly influence, uh, in any case, some
techniques and basics. And I would like
Seriously, let's go, I'm going to sand you down.
on that, but on different
universe, notably with Laurent des
things you also had to define
both of them, the OCPs, the objectives
shared commons. That's something
who uh
deeply affected. Maybe you
I could redefine it, but I would like
although you might tell me
perhaps it gives other keys like
That's a matter of understanding. If I had to
I'll try to explain the OCP quickly.
Done, but the idea was to tell me the
The way I saw it, it was to me
To say you and I have an ego, uh
together. We'll each have our own
objectives that I will put in a
circle. You'll have your circle, me
I'm going to have my circle. And there is a
the place where these two circles normally are
come together.
Um, the way I try to...
what to do when I put this into practice
with my contact on Nego, it's
that I will first, in addition then
Now I put on Dia and it's really
Strong enough, that's what I'm going to try
really to get inside my head
my interlocutor at the deepest level for
to understand
anything he wants
and to be able to give it back
draw him this map, this circle, and him
Tell yourself what you want, that's it.
Exactly that, and you see from time to time
If you do it very well, you will
to have in front of someone who is going to be a
A little disoriented, who will say to themselves "Oh
Damn, he explained it to me better.
that I want to say that I had explained it to myself.
"Myself." And you're going to explain it to me.
What I want is this, by trying to
Don't handle it too much. Obviously you
Go try reducing it just a little bit
Its sound is better than enlarging it if that suits you and
then to change yours a little but
Not too much, because otherwise it's
as big as a house. Then you're going to say
Look, there's a place where our two I
circles meet. Hm hm.
That's the limit of our ego. Hm
hm.
If we go in there, we'll win 5
days, 5 months, 10 months. Finally, it works!
Not always. There are things that are
very conflictual. You need people
exterior and so on. That's what they are
common goals to share.
That's it, that's it.
the shared common goal. NOW,
I'm talking more about a shared common interest
because the risk is that of confusion.
You see, we can have
objectives that are completely
divergent, and this is often the case in
ego or issues that are completely
divergent
And so, OCP or ICP, the interest
that we shared, that's what allows
above all, to transcend the conflict.
H
That's what's important in terms of ego. In
In fact, what needs to be clearly distinguished,
It's the position, the objective and
the issue.
The position,
position, objective and stakes.
The position is very simple.
This is what will be displayed
by the opposing party.
All right ? by your interlocutor, you
For example, he's going to ask you for 10
% discount. OK? It's simple, the
position, that's what's displayed, you
I can't mess you up.
The goal is the hope of winning, this
that he seeks to obtain within the framework of
the negotiation. It's not necessarily
financial, but in this case, there is
an objective always below one
position.
And even below that, that's the most
Important, you have the stakes. The challenge is
On what? The opposing party does not
will never compromise. OK? That's what will
to push her to enter into negotiations. OK
?
OK? So I'll give you a very good example
It's simple and easy to understand. By
For example, I could have something like
Indeed, I'm asking you for a position.
5% discount. So, my goal is
not to be deposed in relation to
to my competitors and my stakes, that can
to be of personal recognition.
So. Once again, the whole
The difficulty is understanding
the objective and the challenge because in
In nearly 100% of cases, they are hidden.
while the position is displayed.
The position if I ask you for 5%. OK. you
I don't necessarily know what my goal is.
And what is at stake for me? And all the
The difficulty with ego is trying to
understand the objective of the game
adversary and its true stakes, you see.
And in fact, that's where it gets complicated.
For what ? Because in nearly 100%
cases, and I mean it, mind you, the
Position has nothing to do with what's at stake
True, but nothing to do with it at all. If
For example, I tell you I'm going to annex
Greenland to preserve the
interests of the United States, you understand the
thing ? That's my position. We are
Okay, maybe the issue is nothing
to consider all of that, and above all, he has
will certainly have nothing to do with anything
That.
And in fact, the whole difficulty is
to try to understand precisely this
objective and this issue which can be
I need you to redefine me
The objective at stake and the difference. If I
You take the history of Greenland, the
Donald Trump, in fact, has the
good position he throws that at you, I want
annex Greenland.
Well, what he wants is what's at stake.
geopolitics perhaps which is
So, we would start by first...
the objective. The objective is going to be
perhaps impose a balance of power,
Okay, to show that I'm more
strong.
And the challenge, perhaps, is to be able to
exploit available resources or
There. So you see behind this
Finally, what's important is this position.
It's about understanding the objective and
the issue. For example, you take the socket
as a hostage in Munich in 1972, you
Remember?
Yeah. During the GPs, me neither.
I wasn't born yet. So you asked him, you
You see, these are Palestinians who
take athletes hostage
Israelis
Or
and they will demand the release of
236 political prisoners. All right. This
who is important in this negotiation and
the issue. And the issue, once again, has
nothing to do with the position. The challenge
It was Palestinian recognition.
It was the Palestinian cause, which
had nothing to do with the liberation
political prisoners. And in fact,
You can take 100% of the negatives. There
Position has nothing to do with what's at stake.
And that's where it's important to understand.
things. It is important to understand the
things.
OK.
So, regarding the ICP, if we go back to that,
Yeah.
The ICP is the shared common interest or
OCP, the shared common goal. It is
which allows us to transcend a
conflict. I can give you an example
for example on the negotiations which
are the most difficult in the world. THE
trade negotiations
difficult in the world who are the
negotiations in large retail
French. OK.
Yeah.
I negotiated a lot
recently cleared up at Super U that we have
Received here. We talk about it a little. Yeah. You
You did that a little bit.
So I did that for quite a while.
when I was at Danon, when I was
at Red Bull and I'm still accompanying
three or four manufacturers per year
especially for
So you coach them before or you go
directly within the DGO? So in
the shadow, I am there are NGOs, I can
to be in contact, but this one I can
not. So I am
in No, you can't. No, we do
I'm in the shadows, you could say.
And so, and this is where these NGOs come in, why?
Are they also difficult? Because of the
balance of power. So here is...
For example, I'll give you a very simple example
simple. Take Nesley, for example, who
is the first group
agri-food in the world. So. When
Nesley negotiates with GALEC, GALEC the
Leclerc's central purchasing office, Nesley does not weigh
that 2% of Lecler's turnover
of Galeek.
Yes, Leclerc only accounts for 1% of the revenue.
of Nesley in the world.
Yeah, but in France, we talk about
In France, it accounts for 30%.
OK.
And actually, keep in mind that Galeek
Leclerc accounts for roughly 30% of the revenue
business of any industrialist.
When an industrialist's weight is only, we will
Saying that 1 or 05. So you see this
the balance of power is completely
imbalance. That's why you can
to have many deviant behaviors
in large retail outlets. I saw some
things, you really have to see it for the
believe. In short, and so, look,
I'll show you, for example, a concept
of shared common interest. So look,
For the past three years, we have been witnessing a phenomenon
of hyperflation. To put it very simply,
your box of toast that you used to buy for €2 a while ago
At 3 or 4 years old, it is now worth €3. You
see this hyperflation phenomenon, we
can be seen everywhere. The consequence
of all of this, in fact,
It's that you actually have people who
were buying national brands, you
Look, now they're buying some
private label brands.
Those who had who buy
store brands, they buy
first prize and those who were on
First prize, they skip meals.
Yeah, they skip meals.
Exactly. That's what we call a
feeling of downward mobility. It's super
difficult.
The consequence of all this is that the
store traffic rate
fall. Well, people will do less
their tusk obviously, since that's
Too expensive. So what is the ICP between the
So what's the point of sharing?
between the distributor and the supplier
?
That's because people are coming back exactly
it's about getting the consumer back into
the store. That's why if I
Negotiate in front of you, we can be uh
Finally, we can agree on
Nothing, but I'll try to impose some
Place the ICP on the table. I'll tell you
like that. Finally, our differences,
That's still legitimate, but at least, is it
The one thing we agree on is
that we all have an interest in bringing back the
consumer in store, otherwise it's
Loose loose for everyone. And so
IP allows you to transcend the
conflict.
OK. And what I understand about NGOs
The current situation in all of this is that
There have been years of increases in
prices, raw materials and
things like that. So, well, I am
So we're not going to say Nestle because
Is this one of your clients or something similar?
It doesn't matter, I am Coca-Cola and then I
come wherever, I'm telling you
Listen, yes, but for me, sugar is gasoline.
to transport all this stuff
increased, so I will increase by 8
% this year and then 7% the following year
and then actually that year the if I
I understand the distributors well, he
they say, hey look, it's gone down anyway
there the price of chocolate and the price of
all of this, the price of cocoa, the price of...
even oil, well we're in a
in a particular context, but therefore in a
At some point, you'll have to lower them.
your prices because their margins have
exploded and when you ask the
People opposite them will say no
I mean, that doesn't exist, we don't lower our standards.
You see, we've increased the prices, we've...
managed to impose that on everyone.
Now, we stay, we stay in
the increase and I have the impression that
It's still blocking quite a bit.
Especially since we're talking about...
when I drink Nesley, Coca-Cola, even Red
Bull somewhere, what I was asking
Dominique Schlescher from
Cooperative U recently, you have some
strong brands like that. There is a
At that moment, in fact, it was the arm wrestling match, so that
It must be almost, it's more complicated
or simpler. That is to say, at a
The moment you say "Listen, you know what
Dear ? Actually, I don't need to.
from you. Honestly, people, if I am
Not at your place, if I don't have Nesle at
If I don't have Coca-Cola or Red at your place,
Bull, they'll go to Système if that's the case.
not at Leclerc because at some point we
She knows the story. Uh, and then and
Then very quickly, you close the notebook and
Then you go out again and then you have to come back
and then you close it and go back out. You
You see, the goal is to avoid that.
Yeah. So, there are two points and
That's extremely important. We're talking
let's talk about chocolate, it's a topic
that I know well. Uh, the beans, uh
They are made of cocoa, you know, they are bought
1 year ago. So when the costs
raw materials, they are falling there
As you can see, if you have
You bought your Fes a year ago at full price.
In this case, you need them
sell off the sale and then propose a price at
the large retailers who will be in
deflation. All right ?
He's trying to sell me his
expensive chocolate. He is currently...
selling your chocolate at a high price
Not at all. No way. And in
that occurrence, that's a real one
reality. That's why, indeed
This year, you'll see chocolatiers
who have passed price increases because
that they need in this instance
to get rid of all of that. But you'll see.
Actually, it's just that the course will
continue to fall when stocks in
The work will have ended. Well, actually...
In this instance, they will succeed in
the occurrence to display deflations.
So that's the first point, that's...
you are also required to include the
stock and often especially for
cocoa beans you have to
finally buy a year and a half at
the advance. Okay, that's the first point.
The second point, then, what you
Speak, that's the customer retention rate at
the brand. You're probably thinking, well, there you go,
Coca-Cola, for example, they are capable of
to fight against, you see, the U system,
Carrefour, Auchamp, Intermarché and
others. Well, uh, yes and no. Actually,
What's important is to
consider the customer loyalty rate
brand. So what is it? In
the occurrence the average rates of
brand loyalty is all about
of 25-30%. Basically, if uh I don't have
the product I'm looking for in my
store, there you go, if there's a rate of
brand loyalty of 25%, in
In 75% of cases, I will refer to a
other product.
OK?
The highest customer retention rate,
It's Ferrero, okay? It's Nutella.
More than 80%. If there is no Nutella
in stores, 80% of
Consumers will buy nothing else.
So they can indeed have
a fairly strong capacity to cause harm but
the rest remains very weak compared to
their disappointment
Actually, what Coca-Cola does is, if you want
Learn all about the retaliatory measures
Buyers, do you want to know them?
Yeah.
So let's take Galeek as an example, they
They're going to give you a code 4, they're not going to
Enter code 9. What is code 4?
So I'm going to delist it.
certain items in the range. So
So for example, number 1, yeah. or even the
Big 1.50 but I'll keep it when
even the 2L for the one who really wants it
He'll be able to find Coca-Cola.
in my stores.
So obviously the distributor will
Losing a little money, okay? Because
that there won't be all the dreams
that one can imagine, all the
references. However, it's Coca-Cola that
will mostly lose a lot of money.
So. And that's why you can
to have references that are said
references that are said
partials. That's where it's more...
It's actually a subtle subject. You go
to have less of a facade in the end, less
visible, less exactly so, therefore it is
the industrialist who will lose the most at
final.
You are more than a million per month at
Watch my videos. 90% of you
You are not a subscriber. So, I'm going to tell you
asking for something because after 8 years of
generation of the Turself, this project is
the project of my life. Every week
My team and I are giving it our all to
to find the best guests, for
to inspire you and to get the most out of it
learning opportunity. For what ?
Because my deepest conviction is
that you need to use your brain time
available on more content
clever. This is important to me
that this content is available
free of charge. So, what I'm going to tell you
Asking is simple, just subscribe. For
For you, it's just a click; for us, it's...
It changes absolutely everything. The more we have
The more subscribers here, the better the
content, guests, productions
and therefore the value that will be brought to you.
It's now. Must. Interesting.
No, no, it's interesting. Well, what if
after the difficulty, I find in
It's always about these power dynamics.
that is, if on the other hand you are in a
The balance of power is much less there, you
Tell me what the la is called
GALEC's central purchasing office, by
example.
Clear.
But if I take you, I don't know, yesterday
I was talking with Carole the judge, you see
June the diapers. Yeah.
Yeah. It's a hit, and uh, well, she has
Opposite Pampers for example, uh, Cocker.
Um, when you're Carole the judge and you
Try negotiating with people like that.
Somewhere along the line, you're like Pampers.
You're forced to use Pampers, that's what you have
Children, you'll see somewhere
June, you can say "Yes, no, it makes me
allows you to add a small counterweight to
Pampers if there aren't too many others
diaper marks." But here's the thing, how
Are you putting yourself in her position?
Yeah. So, in fact, what is
It's important to understand the la
credibility behind all of this. Uh, you
I know, credibility, it remains very
relative. There are four powers
on which one can lean for
to establish our credibility. The first,
That is institutional power. SO
June, compared to Proct,
Indeed, it is very weak. THE
The second is situational power.
So situational power is
Are you able to do
things that others are not
capable of doing it? Well, with its
shopping, her diapers, she June that I
I know a few that are extremely healthy.
she is capable of proposing a
An alternative might be that Pampers is not
unable to make a proposal. So she has a
situational power which is perhaps
stronger.
Then there is relational power,
It's his ability to create a connection.
So.
Yeah. She has a person, she has
Empathy does exist. She is
very very visible on social media
social. And then,
It's personal power, it's this
that she is. All right ?
So. her notoriety, the fact that she
Whether it's a woman, all of that, it can play a role.
And so, during negotiations, which
What's important is to see which one
These four powers can be used.
So if she can't play on the
institutional power
In my opinion, she's actually playing, she's playing.
necessarily based on situational power
because she is capable of proposing
things that Pampers Procter in
fact may not be capable of
to propose. And what is important in
the fact is that for the
distributor, a brand like June,
It's an Oubè because, as you said...
I was saying, it's a pebble in the
Procre shoe and that allows
to propose an alternative. And saying to
At Procter, well, it's super simple, if
you don't give me what I give you
Ask, well, your facings there, I'll...
actually sell to June.
So it also ultimately allows...
raise the stakes too, you
see.
Very interesting. Uh
It's about being very, very aware of
do. That's always something, anyway.
that you told me about earlier, position
The objective at stake, the ICPs, that's what you
You just gave me your four points.
In fact, every time, it's always
finding self-consciousness, what?
self-aware.
Uh, about that, there is, uh, well, you
You might give me some more, but
There are some, there are some basics, there are some
things that need to be
learned and there are many elders. you have
people, uh, I don't know, your father, by
For example, I imagine, he wasn't trained in
the negotiation, there are people
who know, uh, right away that we have a
gift of gab, that one could say the
Lebanese people can be known for this.
The Jews, uh, you really have in
certain cultures, a true culture of
the anego. Um, how do we...?
can it transform? Is it
How can I make progress in this area? Me,
I think that originally, I had a foundation
which are not bad.
But I would like if I tomorrow I wanted
to become an exceptional negotiator.
H
That's a good question and
Indeed, I think you have very
very good foundations.
So negotiation is something that can be learned. There you go, we
often says we're not good
One becomes a negotiator. And that's
True, negotiation comes first.
It's a hard skill, like math.
like physics, as in this case
science in this case, and it's not
Not at all about soft skills. It has nothing to do with
to consider all of this. Why some
succeed when others fail on
The same situations? These are not the
the luckiest guys in the world. It is
That's why negotiation, that
It can be learned.
So in fact, if I have to define
What is negotiation?
You see, I would tell you that you have if we
take an empty bottle, you see, you
Imagine, I'm going to fill it in, there are 7
%, I call those core skills.
All right ? Basically, that's what you're saying.
empathy, listening skills, intuition,
stress management, control
emotional. So that's important.
This is the basis of all relationships
interpersonal. Then, I would tell you
You have 3%, I'll add 3%
additional skills. you have
certain professions like yours or
others that will require
certain skills such as leadership,
courage, integrity. OK? So there
That's only 10%. The big one arrives
Now then you have 20%, that's
experience.
Except that the ego experience doesn't mean
Nothing to say. What's important is
learning from experience
because if you don't learn from the past
Ultimately, you are condemned to it.
reproduce.
So that's why negotiation is a
also a profession of experience. And then
The remaining 70%, you know what that is
? That's expertise, and that's the
the most difficult part. Here you have everything
Hard skill combined with experience. SO
it's what ? Well, that's how you are.
capable of reducing demand. That's
difficult. How do you manage to do it?
Change someone's paradigm?
All right ? How do you manage to break
beliefs?
A high-ranking officer who rejected an ultimatum, you see,
to counter a threat, to neutralize
a complex profile and all that, it doesn't
It can't be improvised. To turn an individual
Being in bad faith is not something you can just improvise.
And that's why, actually.
that negotiation is first and foremost a
expert profession. That's why
It's hard skill, not soft skill.
skill. So does everyone
can it progress? Yes, of course.
All right. But you're right too.
You have people who have that potential in
them, you see. And so when they have a
enormous potential, well, that's simpler
for us to pull it very, very high.
So.
So much to go through, but I think we
could make a 42-hour podcast.
You see, it's just on each keyword, good.
listen. I noted it as a good experience.
minor expertise a request breaks the
beliefs degraded solution ultimaton
That's just bad faith. Bad faith.
Finally, it's really crazy. I'm me, I
finds that the thing that me that me
is astounding right now, we've been talking about
Donald Trump, but this is at the height of
Not the state of the world, actually. You have
anyway
someone who arrives with things that
are a blatant, absolute display of bad faith.
Assumed and so on, and then, well, what does it impose?
that's for everyone and then the others
who look at him and say to themselves, "But
So how am I going to do it? You are
"I was helpless in the face of that."
Yeah, exactly.
Sorry, I'll let you react if you
want. No, of course not. That's what we
indeed, these famous ones
performative speech. There you go, you
Say whatever you want, take responsibility for it and
then you finally take sides
some people saying "Well, there you go,
I am the best. Besides,
You can ask anyone."
Everyone will tell you that. That's what
Trump often does this. We're not even looking
to verify the information even if we know
He might be talking nonsense, but that
pass. And once again, you can
allow you as long as you are
all-powerful.
That's it. That doesn't work when you
is a total loser from the bottom of the
class. Exactly. Actually, it's for
I'm going to tell you something. You
I can allow you to be weak in ego if
You are all-powerful.
H
Oh yes, a hostage-taker, he doesn't have
need to be good at self-esteem. Oh no,
no way. He is holding hostages.
Often, once again, I weigh my
words, I, I, I don't want them either
generalize, but often buyers
large retailers don't need
to be good. This is not a joke, they
are simply all-powerful. Me, how much
Have they ever been able to tell me that? But
Mr. Marie, I'll take your box.
hostage, in fact. If you don't pay me
I'll give you some references for that. They are
simply all-powerful. And so
indeed, or perhaps a trade unionist
which paralyzes all of France, uh, well
Once again, he has the power to
a monstrous nuisance.
That's why they didn't have
necessarily need to be very good at e.
That's why when we suffer
from an unfavorable balance of power, one
is forced somewhere to transcend
our condition, in particular, to be able to
in this case, to cope. And that's it.
Where it gets tricky is when you
suffer from a power imbalance
unfavorable. And that makes me want to...
to arrive at what you mentioned, the
degraded solution. That is to say, you
when you are facing him,
You are not in an all-powerful position.
So anyway, you arrive by
saying "Well, I need to obtain
That
in my goals, uh, personally
But whatever happens, it will be necessary
that you get, that you swallow
snakes because your solution, it
will never be what you want because you
"You are not all-powerful."
So yes, but above all, I do it at
Actually, the opposite is true when I talk about
degraded solutions. Me in my NGOs
27 years of career, I've never had a
only once the balance of power in my
favor. Never once. I dream of it
Besides. That's why I'm doing this
job. Once again, if I were all
powerful, I wouldn't need to do
this profession.
And in fact, my job is often to
to make a degraded solution acceptable to the
opposing side. It's not that I'm cutting corners
in this case on my objective or my
stake. This is how I get it accepted
a degraded solution to the part
adversary. So how do I help him do it?
the mourning of an ideal solution for
accepting a degraded solution, knowing
that he doesn't want to do it because he is
all-powerful. And that's where we come in.
in ego. That's why this is the
technical part and the most
difficult.
Knowing that it's extremely difficult in your
position because somewhere
someone comes to pay you
Yeah.
so that you can tell him "I'm going to make you
tell him I'm going to make you swallow something
that you don't really want to swallow."
Exactly. Yeah. Quite.
But on the other hand, in that respect, I
I'm going to go for the top of the range.
of what you don't want to swallow.
That's pretty much it.
Yeah. Exactly. In fact, you see,
You will have your position displayed.
Yeah.
You will have your goal and you will have your
stake. Do you remember?
Yeah. Yes.
I'm going to make sure that you
Abandon your goal. at least, I
I'm going to try to make you give it up and
that you accept a less-than-ideal solution,
Okay, which allow you to roughly
to satisfy your challenge. And that, for the
So, it's going to take hours, some
weeks, even months of noogo and and
it's the part that is the part
more technical, and that's if you don't know
You can't succeed if you try. It is
impossible. There, that's it, that's why
That's why I'm coming back to the subject once again.
The fact that the negotiation is, whether it is,
hard skill.
We'll talk about the weather because I'll tell you
Talk about hours, weeks, months. But
to go back to Donald for 2 seconds
Trump,
Yeah,
There's something crazy about that, though.
it's that every time I
I speak, I tell myself, we had to leave
in the United States this weekend and I
he tells me every time I talk about
Donald Trump is going to get on my nerves at some point.
If I stumbled upon it again, I would be more accepted.
in the United States. It's still crazy to
to think how much if he came back
in our minds in terms of
Manipulation, we might talk about that again.
But it gets into your head. That is to say
He is, he is still very strong. This
What I mean is that
What you just said, you're in
position of strength
I know, that's what I'm saying.
Furthermore, it's not that I'm impressed.
of the character. However, uh, his position
by force Obama Biden mouth washed
h
he arrives
That's it
He said, "Look, I'm going to do anything."
What. Bam, le le Vené and bam machin.
Then behind the scenes, he threatens people and
everyone's freaking out
and everyone's thinking, "Damn, we need to
that we negotiate" because we don't say
on Greenland, and no, he will
Never, go ahead, we don't care, you see.
No, we think maybe he'll...
TO DO.
Yeah.
So you think, okay, I'll give him
Let go of this, this, and this.
Yeah.
So, in a way, there are moments,
I thought to myself it's easy for him, he has
He wrote The Art of the Deal, right?
So in the 80s, you say "Yeah,
No, but there are lots of people who say
that he's a complete idiot and doesn't know
to do that." Both today by his
totally excessive and unpredictable
And
Unpredictable, he loves the chaos
everywhere you tell yourself, in fact, that you need to
I'm talking to him, otherwise it's actually a price
Douigné is still something crazy
No.
Yeah. But it's clear, in fact, the strength
What Trump ultimately allowed is that he allowed it
to make the whole world understand that
there was a match somewhere
between words and actions. A lot of
of presidents who were able to be elected
eventually they abandoned their
program because ultimately for
We are capable of reaching the very top.
is obliged somewhere to do
many concessions. Yeah
And then the primary interest remains when
even, let's say
the unity of the nation. There you go, for
to avoid everyone being in the
Street. So that's why often the
decisions that are made, they are
quite lukewarm, and that's what we often have
politicians were criticized, but even in
France. And Trump said, "No, but me..."
In this case, that's because
Some people are surprised
ultimately, it's about what he does, but there is
Don't be surprised. In fact, it's one of the
It's rare to hear who will do this.
he said."
So obviously
part of its interventionism
The stranger, or yeah. Exactly. And
Once again, like you, I don't
does not condone in any way what he may have done
to do, but he is showing
once again that there can be a
suitability, a coherence between the action
and speech. Now, where he is
In this case, what's quite striking is that he
push the sliders to the maximum. So.
And in fact, he finally knows about it.
lose face because you were able to
In fact, sometimes he backs away.
when he sees that it's not working. And
Many would say, "Oh crap, we're losing."
in credibility, so ultimately it is necessary
that I do something else. I need to
Move on to something else. But for him
Suddenly he manages to break free.
Finally, from all of this, he uses the
same thing, here are the same means to
right and left. And when it passes
It's great, and when it doesn't work
severe. Look at Greenland, you're talking about it.
We're not talking about it anymore now. Exactly.
It grew. It grew. He surrendered
It might be worth noting that if he pushes too hard
strong there might be
repercussions that he would have difficulty
to assume. And finally, its viewfinder is
a bit like the eye of Sauron. you
Remember, he is being targeted now.
Finally, he turns to Cuba or perhaps to
the occurrence, uh, the error
And so, once again, we'll say it's
all its strength and somewhere it is
ready to finally assume the
consequences of these acts and for
Many people find it unacceptable, why?
because behind it there is an image
I think they should preserve his image and his own.
that it ultimately matters very, very little
unlike many politicians
It's crazy because, yes, that's it, he has
But what I find crazy is
So, it's interesting to put oneself
in this type of character. That's to say
that in the things that I in a for
force of noo
So he has an unpredictable side and also
a predictable side in some aspects,
You see. That is to say, we notice that
That's just how he does things, that's the effect
very strong announcement, it's sequential and
etc. And then, uh, well, once of
From time to time, if he sees that things are going too far
Far away, you're on Greenland, he, he, poof, he
goes back and then he goes over
something else.
But, uh, you see, well, we have the
understands this sequence well. For me, there is
There are things in there that inspire me,
that's typically
on certain aspects in my negativity, me
I like Clem, but in the end, I won't tell you the
On the contrary, but to be quite up to
endian, that is to say that there is a
the moment I said something, uh, yes
I find myself in a ridiculous position where this
As I said, I have to go all the way to
I'll go because I want to, I want to
prove to people that I actually said it
That's all, you see. And so he
There comes a point where, well, you see, I
I want you to know
and that I come back. He's coming back in
back sometimes, but you see
Oh well, it's going to cost me 100,000 bucks
As for the lawyer, too bad, I don't care, I have him.
He said, "You see, I'll go all the way," and he
There are times when you shouldn't...
You shouldn't do that, but it's very
It's complicated, it always depends on your...
position ? Yeah, actually, it depends
It's really about taking on risk. Um,
You see, that's what we used.
many especially within the
special operations, the assumption of
risk. It's true that when you say by
For example, "OK, I'll go all the way," you
Look, I'm a bit like you, in
In this instance, I only have one word, so
I'll go all the way. But sometimes
Indeed, we know that if we hold
Harsh words can have consequences.
harmful consequences on
OK people, who will be part of the
collateral damage. And those people,
They didn't ask for anything at all. It's for
that even if we don't know each other super
Well, in my opinion, since you are someone
Quite frankly, you're going to say to yourself, "Wait,
I might stop because these
People will suffer while I never
wanted him to suffer." On the other hand, if there
it's just that one person who makes me
[ __ ], in this case who's going to suffer,
I'll see this through to the end, no matter what.
And even if it costs me, as you say,
€100,000 for a lawyer. So that, in
the occurrence of this assumption of risk
And again, it's a term that
exists, it's not a term I have
invented. In fact, what's important,
It's about integrating it, and upstream, it's about
complicated because we can never
control 100% of the environment.
That's why this
Ultimately, uncertainty governs it.
negotiations. But for me, yet another
times, as long as the risk can be
assumed because, once again, it is
That's the person in his image, OK.
We do it. But when finally it
it's starting to affect areas we haven't
identified upstream, that's where something
Sometimes we can do machinaria and
Sometimes you can lose face. No,
It's not that we want to do it, but it's
because we are not ready to take responsibility
harmful consequences that are in
the eventual occurrence of sorts of
collateral damage.
And I, I experienced it in
some NGOs where I finally found myself
In this instance, I would go so far as to
At the end, I saw that there was
risks to civilian populations
who hadn't asked for anything and in fact I
I wondered how I ended up here? And
In fact, I realized there was a
a type of three-cushion billiards that
made me say, "But if I continue, I
I will win, certainly, but unfortunately
People are going to suffer nearby." And so
So, I finally decided, actually
to withdraw or to no longer hold
I couldn't take the rather difficult positions anymore
to take responsibility for the rest. That's the thing. And
I discovered that during the negotiation process.
that I mean.
Yeah, I see it. I see it. On
could fit into
in such deep places, in
geopolitical conflicts or things
Like that, but without going into that.
Um, right away, I'm thinking no
but I was thinking, uh, uh
No, I'm not going to get involved in that.
Um, um, on that point, I'm thinking that...
Indeed, which is always difficult, you
I was talking about position, so your position
initial earlier, but also your
relative position. There is the position,
let's say
absolute and relative position. What is
It's difficult in all these egos, it's
that well you can be up to
Buddhist, you see what I'm telling you?
For example, on this thing, I said this
And I'm going to see this through to the end. When you
and that's the big brands or
Large companies see it when you
You are very small and you are facing a
giant because something happened to me once or twice
You're right, by the way, you're going to
You will win in the end, even legally.
They'll only win if they ruin your chances.
life for years
And so, there's something that I...
cherished above all is the time
speed, I think, is the biggest
My inspiration for that is
It's more like an Elon Musk, or something like that.
to say to oneself "OK, I want to strike some
deal quickly. Uh, and sometimes, well, that
conflict with your rules
uh, or your initial position, because in
So, uh, you're thinking, uh, yeah, me
spending, uh, 4 years even on something where where
I'm right. There are people who
They're banging their heads, but you know who
They fall asleep more easily at night when they come home
In there, they're banging their heads against the wall to...
earn. Hm
hm.
But in a fight, well done! To the
In the end, you won, but you lost 8 years.
of your life. That's what you see a lot of.
Situations like that.
Yeah. people who misunderstand or who
are mistaken and are not on the
Good fights. So yes, yes, I have it
seen especially on people who are more
capable of moving forward. I have an example
that I can give you personally and therefore
So that's it, that's it, that didn't happen to me
but I have a friend of mine in
the occurrence
I'm telling you, she's a woman.
beaten. All right. OK. So her boyfriend
He's a nutcase. They have a
shared apartment. OK. She for
preserve its physical integrity
h
and psychologically, she must take a
a pivotal decision. All right ? Because
that the more time passes, the more she
puts it in danger, and the more it puts it in danger
also his children. OK? She has a
apartment shared with spouse.
So. And in fact, she did so precisely.
To protect herself, she must therefore leave
the apartment as soon as possible. You understand
The thing? Except that she, she says to herself, "No
but this apartment
"Exactly." And I put "I had"
I had so much trouble seeing her that in fact I
I want to keep it. And him, of course, the guy
who hits her, he says "But I want
"Not to leave." And he has all the time in the world.
for him because anyway he is
all-powerful. And she does what she wants with it.
The fact is, she loops, she loops
about the apartment and I told him "Your
The stakes, remember the profound stakes in
the point is not to preserve
the apartment. Your challenge is to
preserve your physical integrity and
psychological and that of your children.
And your goal might be to
to get the apartment back. We agree
? That's the goal, either to do well.
Exactly.
And actually, well, it's been going on for months now.
It's hard, it goes around in circles, it goes around
She goes around in circles and
Unfortunately, it gets damaged at
daily life because in fact she
misunderstanding. Once again, it's a fake.
fight the apartment. Obviously in
the fact that his apartment is
Great, it took her years to
find on security.
Exactly. And the rest is that she
It is forgotten and it deteriorates. And that's it
what's happening
there. In the example you're using, he
There's something that fascinates me that there is
a debate I had with one of my
Friends recently who asked me for
advice on one, by the way, I just...
realize that I was asked
advice. No, no, but a partner.
Yeah.
And uh, they have a box that's 49 and a half
49 and a half and 1%, that's what it is
Pretty sound advice, huh?
And he's kind of stuck in this
situation. And in fact, in there we
he was talking about time, that is to say, duration
negotiation
What I find interesting is this
that I tried to make him realize,
It's the past and the future. Hm
hm.
And here you're talking about the past and the future.
The apartment is in the past. She put
time to see her, and so on and
etc. But, uh, I'm quite
obsessed with the future. That is to say, the
In the past, well, who cares. These are the
The consequences are regrets, that's
Anything you want.
And at one point, I said, "But she she
How much does your number box cost?
business? He's 10-15 years old, he told me
"No, but you know, I've sorted it, so it's over,"
I sorted through, uh, my children, they
work remotely, I had to do
constant back and forth and
etcera, I didn't see them and cetera and
"Et cetera." I told him, "Go on, go on."
"Pass, pass," and I say, "It's worth it."
"How much is your box?" She told me, "Well, I
I don't know, how much is she? 6,700,000
in terms of revenue, it earns
"How many?" She told me, "That makes 3 or 4."
years that it has been losing 5%, finally 30,000 to 40,000
and so forth. Finally, I told him, "But your
"That box is worthless." And I said, "Well,
"I don't know." I said, "But you're ready to
"How much should I buy it back?" he asked me.
made an offer to buy it back for 10000.
I'm saying, if she did it to you...
An offer to buy it back for 10,000, you give it to him
Would you sell? Oh no. So, there you have it.
But I asked him, "Are you sure?"
Is it worth 10,000? Do you
It's not worth more. Is that it, I say?
But actually it's over, dump her.
Give him the box. Try to take 10000
15000 20000 then there are the ones you know
We've already talked about the close shotgun here.
So, and actually, at one point I said
But look ahead, you are more than you are
even more defensive. If it was worth the
limit the money in your business,
There might be one to be done. But
There aren't even any there. No,
But of course. Actually, that's a
cognitive bias called costs
irrecoverable or the loss version.
And in fact, people are saying to themselves, "I have
so invested in this particular case that I
"I can't give that up." And then for
That move is a huge mistake. You
See, if we go back to your case or the
In my girlfriend's case, what actually makes
whether she misunderstands or her tone is friendly
It's easy to misunderstand, that's also what
feeling of injustice. He tells you "But
Yes, but it's not fair, I invested
that much, or is it not fair that he
"Gets the apartment back." I said, "But he
We need to get out of here again, he
We need to get rid of this notion, which
is just maybe and not just for
the other one again and that's not it
which will allow you to move forward." And
often what blocks them
That's it, that's either the feeling
of injustice. So. But one more
Sometimes, we don't give a damn about injustice.
Unfortunately, once again, nothing.
It's not fair in this world. And then
one after the other is the version with the
The loss is what people say
"I've invested so much that it's not
It's actually possible that I'll give up and that
"I'm selling my business for next to nothing."
But actually you tell them, "But all of this,
You're right, all that is in the past, you
I can't go back on it anymore. NOW
Ultimately, you want to live in the past.
"Or do you want to move forward?" And actually, it's
people who remain prisoners of
pass.
How do we negotiate quickly?
Do we need to negotiate quickly? Yeah,
It's complicated because in fact this
which is the negotiability of a situation
depends primarily on the balance of power.
We've seen it. And so the whole difficulty,
If you have to go fast, you suffer.
of an unfavorable balance of power and
the other one in front of you, he is
all-powerful and he has all the time in the world, the
The risk is that you'll want
Going too fast will make you appear weak and
In this instance, he will take advantage of it. SO
That's why, once again,
We need to see if there is an ICP at
time level. H
often what allows me to unlock
Negotiations are taking time.
Ultimately, we all have an interest in going
quickly. So. finally to stay
master of our destiny. And that's for the
Suddenly, we manage to put it on
the table. Finally, we agree on
Nothing, you and I, but we all have an interest in
go fast. You're going to tell me, well yes
Indeed, ICP or OCP becomes
At that moment, time. The only problem
that's when that's not the case for
the other when the other has all the time
It's possible, that's where it actually is.
extremely complicated to move forward and extremely
dangerous. That's why when I
enters into negotiations every time.
I'm trying to look at the report on
time. Is time an ally?
for the other person or as a constraint? If I
understand that time is a
Constraint? Well, that's perfectly fine. We're going
perhaps be among the best
provisions for doing so. If the time
is an ally to him, I know that I
I'm not going to make any quick progress at all because
The risk in this case is that I
suffers from a cognitive closure bias.
So, I don't know if you're familiar with this.
No
No, the cognitive closure bias,
That's extremely interesting. There are plenty of
people who suffer from it.
It's because there are people who don't
They cannot bear to live in uncertainty.
It takes time, you see.
For what ? Because it will create
The discomfort, you see. This will create a
sort of cognitive dissonance. And for
in particular, reducing this dissonance
cognitive and restore this coherence
Internally, what are they going to do?
They will tend to favor the
speed of decision-making to quality
of a decision. And that can be very
very expensive. And you see, the
Conspiracy theorists, they suffer from this
bias there, but that's not all, you know, we
We can also suffer. You see by
for example, regarding Covid, people
wonders,
all the greatest scientists
they were saying, "But what is this?"
"Covid?" And the conspiracy theorists were saying
"No, but it's Macron and the Chinese."
That's it, exactly, I know. And so he
contain the problem. So they
apply an ultra-simplistic solution to
an extremely complex problem.
But it was Macron and the Chinese
And you have people who need these
certainties are there to move forward and so that
It allows them, you see, to get rid of the subject.
and to move forward. And so the more you suffer
precisely because of this bias, the more you will have
tendency to want to decide quickly
especially to restore your consistency
internal. And that's the opposing side.
Unfortunately, she can take advantage of it.
That's why we need to see if
Time is a constraint for the
two. So yeah, actually it's
Funny, I was just about to come across that.
another one through another door, but it's
a form of closing note
cognitive.
Yeah.
It's just that when I see that
because I see that I could
suffering from this kind of ticket or from
that kind of thing when I see that a
ego
uh, can't go fast.
Yeah,
I explain to my interlocutor, "OK, you
You know what? I'm going to ruin you, but in
My mental load will be zero.
I'm going to make your life miserable, but I'm going to delegate.
And I'm going to sleep at night and then
All of that. But you won't be able to sleep.
You see. That's kind of the idea. No, but
I'm exaggerating, but you see, it's a bit
The idea is that it's only at some point in
In return, you say, well, either we go fast
But the problem is that this
works when you are an entrepreneur or
when you're like that. When you have
facing someone who is coming home
in the evening and who doesn't really care.
Is Ben an employee? There is
employees who are very involved
It's not widespread, but who cares and
that do not interfere with nails and that which
is not uh
well you have few
of the flu. Yeah. Yeah. Yes.
And how do you do it?
That's a real point. And now you're talking
vulnerability.
Uh, you see, I was telling you in particular
the work that I have that which one
he was talking there about the elegance of the
handling. In fact, it's the
first time I've drawn up the nine
vulnerabilities to exploit. You
You might know Mice, you know the one in
fat
it's Money Ideology, compromise and
ego. So. And so there is a model
classic, which is good. Uh, except that
For me, this model is a bit
limiting because in many Mega
or maintenance when people are not
not sensitive to these four
vulnerabilities, money,
ideology, coercion, or
Ego, what am I going to play on? So I
I am forced to play on other
springs. That's why
when I created these nine vulnerabilities,
I'm able to say out of 1000
individual that there will be at least one, you
will suffer from at least one or two or even
three of these vulnerabilities. There are some
who even suffer from nine
vulnerabilities. So here, for example,
you actually tried to play on the
the emotional part, let's say.
OK? So ultimately it's a kind of
a latent threat. What you're doing is that
Finally you say, "Well, if you don't agree
The risk with that is that I'll...
"It makes life miserable." OK? So you
will play on the cognitive load of
The individual will say, "Oh no, but me..."
to preserve my balance, I prefer
So, do what you tell me to
to avoid all that." And those in this case
who aren't sensitive to that, you'll
being forced to play on other
vulnerabilities. So that might be okay.
not walking. So maybe we'll play
We might play on ego.
the opportunity, we might play on
hope. Other vulnerabilities that he
You need to know to know which lever
action will be activated. So on the
nine, the four of Mice, silver coin,
ideology, constraint, e
are part of it.
No, uh
There are some that are part of it.
Can you list them for me?
Yeah. Uh, so the first one
In this case, it's Lego, like Mais
Then you have, uh, the opportunity,
You have, uh, the doctrine, but the problem
that's what we need to go into detail about
All of this is to help you understand. You have
hope,
You have limiting cognitive biases.
OK. Yeah. Uh, you have... I even forgot...
do.
You don't have them all? But anyway
Yeah, you're in the book anyway.
Yeah, we'll look for them otherwise. Yeah.
OK.
So, what I'm going to do is...
that's what I'm going to establish a
mapping to try to understand
your mental structure. So the structure
Mentally, there are five points I'm going to
fetch. OK. The first
Ultimately, it's your posture. Is it that
Are you collaborative or not? Is it that
You have a rather quiet posture,
Waiting, you see? Or that sort of thing
things. Next, I'm going to try to
understand your beliefs because
what you do on a daily basis is dictated by
your beliefs. All right ? How are you doing
Dress this morning according to the weather
to let your child sleep and cry
night because you think he will
Falling asleep all alone?
Everything we do in our daily lives
is dictated by our beliefs. I have
I need to understand your beliefs because
that I know that this is what will guide
your action. OK? your belief and everything
I myself am not afraid, you can tell me
If I threaten you, nothing will happen to me. Obviously
that it will influence the way I will
to manage you. Next, I'm going to try to
understand your personality. If you are
narcissistic, schizoid, schizotypal,
psychopath, sociopath, depending on
Your profile, my talking points
will be different. That's why
I need to truly understand
your personality. All right ? And there is
one in 10 people who suffer from
pathology. The problem is that
They're not crazy. In this case, we
considers it to be dough from the start
when it causes suffering
for themselves or for others. H
So, you end up with lots of profiles.
which fit into that. OK. Afterwards,
I need to understand your
motivations that ultimately correspond
roughly at stake. So. And the
The last point concerns vulnerabilities.
If I manage to map the entire thing
of your entire profile, okay,
With the five points, it will be very
It's easy for me to activate levers.
action to see how I will
play. So when you say, for example, your
No one actually works on that part, uh
She has excellent emotional control.
she was in control of herself emotionally and she
is not sensitive to that lever, then
At that moment, I'm going to look
ultimately, depending on one's beliefs,
of his motivations and his
vulnerabilities on which I will be able to
play. And that's where it actually becomes
very technical and it becomes super
powerful.
which is difficult. So I see
That's what I'm a bit obsessed with, I think.
I always think that's good in terms of
Visually, it's the Spider Map, you see that
That's very good.
Spider maps are often a type of AI.
an octagon. So, there's a nanogone there.
Finally, here's a radar you're going to use.
to create a gradient, therefore from 1 to 5 or from 1
at 10 and then you'll see on your nine
uh vulnerability, you're going to put it from 0 to
1. So here's what's difficult
What you're saying is that in
For each of the vulnerabilities, you have
subcategories.
Yeah. So, you were talking about...
pathologies, or were you talking about things
like that.
And what I find very difficult in all
that's it
conceptualize and uh because for
I'll come back to Liné later.
versus Laki, you said there is
A lot of it is hard skill, all of it.
Uh
how do we still manage to
Integrate it? I see that you see
All of that, well, you've got it, you've been doing it for a while.
20 years old. Uh
In fact, there are tons of things you
You notice it in people, you see. You have
No, there are people in the inner circle who will
see, listen to, observe the gestures,
will understand the limits very quickly
people.
There are others who perceive it
But not at all, not at all, not at all. You
sense ? Uh
How do we acquire it?
Yeah, that's a very good point.
Let's keep it simple.
Yeah. So, to keep it simple, that
In this case, it often remains just a wish.
stake. It's like you wanted
learning medicine in 12 years is
Finally, in 2 weeks.
Yeah. So. It's a bit complicated.
and above all, that it remains a matter of hard skill.
So that's still a skill, actually.
which is something that can be worked on.
So the best way to progress
On this subject, it's either to get involved
form. I'm not going to tell you
anything. You can see, for example, on
On this subject, I do two training courses per
no more than one year in inter-company, no more
voluntarily because I deliver
many secrets. So it's called
IRI, influence and information gathering.
So how do you collect
information about someone and
How do you exploit vulnerabilities?
? As long as you don't know them, these
vulnerabilities, you can't ignore them
serve. It's like learning
a new language. That's why
In this case, you need to know
that which exists. That's the first one
point. The second point is why
also that I wrote this book. THE
But it's not about advertising my
book. It's about asking yourself, well, how do I
makes this accessible to the greatest number of people
which was useful to me, what I was able to
has actually been serving for 25 or
or 30 years. So it's actually
That's my wife, she says it often.
It's a bit like the taste of strawberries.
Actually, strawberries, you don't know
What does it taste like until you have them?
Didn't taste it. We agree?
But it's the same thing. When I train
people on the influence side or
manipulation, they often tell me
"But it's like learning a
"New language." Oh, well, of course, so much
that you don't know what exists, yet
Once, you're surprised, or is it
A lot of empiricism. That's why
Unfortunately, you can't
improvising because it's...
hard skill, these are skills
difficult, therefore requiring learning.
specialized learning. So I'm going to
not to tell you just anything by saying
There you go, that was quick. What is important
It's about knowing what question we're asking ourselves.
laid. What framework, in fact, within such a framework?
what are we going to check off as
minor damage? What are we going to do?
search for information to then
understand the levers on which we
Are we going to be able to play? And that
Unfortunately, it can't be improvised.
What's interesting about all this, I
I noted it down earlier, I'm looking for it
but in one of your
one of your answers and then you come back to
the collection of information and everything else
the time, what you had put at the top and
First, there was listening.
Yeah.
In fact, it's still the basis of everything
That. That is to say, yes, no, there is
lots of people arrive and say
"I will arrive, I will negotiate, I
I'm going to strut around like a rooster and then I'll go."
So, that might be it.
The Donald Trump method. It's a
method that may work
as long as you are powerful. Yeah. In
The occurrence, yeah. Yeah.
Trump said so. extortion reports
more than cooperation.
Yeah, I agree. As long as you are
all-powerful and that you are ready to
to sit on your image, to listen, we
speaks often, we will bring to light
listening, but it's not because you have
a good level of listening, you are a good
Negotiator, that has nothing to do with it.
Or it's not because you are
empathetic that you have a good level of
negotiation. In fact, listening and
Empathy, if you will, is the basis of
any interpersonal relationship. On
everyone should listen and be empathetic.
That's not what allows us to do well
negotiate, but let's just say it's the
basis for creating a relationship with
the other one. And the relationship, it is
important especially to obtain this
whatever we want. But you have people who
can finally break free from the
relationship. He bangs very hard on the table
saying "If I don't have that, I'll give you
knock it down. The guy is all-powerful, he has
no need to demonstrate listening skills, he
He'll get what he wants."
OK. If you're not taking this approach, this
which I often find more desirable
Perhaps it's about meeting someone.
Well, listening isn't just good,
Go ahead, speak, I'm listening.
There's a bit more to it than that. How do we
Did you listen well?
Uh, a good collection of information, that
What does that mean? And earlier, you
he said without her knowledge. Yeah.
Um, can you explain?
Okay then. So there are two things
different. There's listening, actually.
that's how you efface yourself in favor of
the other one. If, for example, we go to
restaurant, if I tell myself I need to
to put you in the best
arrangements, that's what I do in
my NGOs. I'm going to talk about 5 or 10% of the
Time and I'm going to make you talk
for 90% of the time. Basically, I'm going to
I'm very interested in you. I'm going to
to restart, I'm going to take breaks, some
silences, sometimes I will
To rephrase, I'll paraphrase, and so
So you're going to have my... I'm going to be
deeply and turn towards you. OK?
And that's extremely important for putting
the other in the best
provisions. And here I'll give you a
A very telling example is
Valérie Plame, a former operator
of the CIA which was under
coverage for 20 years. OK.
So she was conducting the operations
clandestine. And you know we live in a
era when people now don't speak
more than them.
When you meet someone for the
First time, I don't know if you do
be careful, but people now they
only two of them are talking now and all that
Apart from me, no one else agrees. And
All of this was further exacerbated by the
social media and then everything else
can see. And in fact the cover of
Valérie Plame, she was, she was
unveiled. All right ? So, cover of
the CIA by the Bush administration in
2003, I think exactly when her husband
who was an ambassador revealed in the
press that Iraq did not possess
weapons of mass destruction
h
as the United States had been able to say
to justify this war. So, there,
well, the very next day, it all fell apart like
a ready-made blow to take revenge on
of that gentleman. What do they have
do ? They unveiled the cover of
his wife. And so in the press, in
the press in the morning, I don't know if you
Imagine, in this case, we're going to see his
photo and it says "OK, Valérie"
"Plam, OK, CIA operative." There you go.
So there, her own children, OK, all
His family, all his friends said "Damn,
But you lied to us for 20 years, we
saw that you worked at the CIA, uh
"For the CIA for 20 years and all that."
And then two years later, she will be
interviewed by Vanfer,
the magazine you know well and that we
likes moreover
and that you love. All right. And uh the
The journalist will tell him, "But but
How did you manage to do that?
to keep your identity secret during
"All that time?"
and she replied with this sentence
magical and said "But it's very
Simply put, people only talk about themselves.
So I just had to restart them, which
allowed me to not talk about myself."
And I think that sums it up very, very well.
well the society in which we live.
I see it at weddings when
I meet people in, near
In 100% of cases, you don't even need to bother.
to put coins back on the counter. THE
People talk about them a lot. SO
Listening, that's what it is in this case.
it's about making sure that the other
Finally, this book. And for that, as
I was telling you, it's simple, we
paraphrasing, reformulating, doing some
emotional verbalization, we show
the interest. OK? However, the part
art skill, it's the collection
information. So, basically, what is it?
it's because if what I do in front of you
It's not working, okay, I see that
you don't want to open up because you
retain information that could
to be compromising. There, I'm going
use influence techniques
progress, okay, to make you
delivered without your knowledge. And that's where in
So, how am I going to do it?
sort of it so you don't feel it or if
You can feel it, how I'm going to break your
resistances. And that's the hard part
skill.
That's what information gathering is all about. If you
I want to, it's like when I pass
the interrogations, the people they
they can tell me "Well no, I'll tell you
I won't answer, or I'll only speak in
"My lawyer is present." We are
All right. Yeah.
Do you conduct interrogations yourself?
I do it. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. On
He will return to it. OK. In some
executives, whether from the fraud department or not
company or certain cases in fact which
have somewhat particular where some
people were able to do things that
were not very pretty and so we
need a third of his life. So. And me
I'm going to do it. And so, there,
People, obviously, they will...
not wanting to give himself up because of that
could be detrimental to them by the
following. And so, how is this going?
I will make sure that he
book without their knowledge. And that's there for the
So now we're getting into the technical aspects.
OK, can you tell me a little more about the
technique?
It's extremely long. It's extremely long but
Go ahead, we'll do it together
quickly. OK. So you imagine, you have
information that you need to remember.
All right. Good morning.
Good morning.
Are you doing well ?
Well, that's fine. And you ? Yeah
Alright. OK. So we go through all the
Greetings after 10 minutes.
So. and I'm going to get to this
that subject. All right ? So, let's say
that you possess information. OK.
Um, and actually, you see that I'm going to
arriving there and you don't want to
I don't want to get involved in that. SO
I'm going to keep it pretty simple, actually.
So the PC that disappeared,
Yeah, that PC that was... rings a bell, doesn't it?
Has he disappeared from the team?
No, I haven't heard of it.
Ah OK. OK. Uh, very well. Uh
because I had been told in this instance
that you were aware because you
You were part of the team, actually.
whose PC had disappeared had
disappeared.
I'm not sure about that. Ah, it was
A Mac, perhaps. No,
All right. It's a Mac. All right.
OK. OK. I know why I don't have... I have
no, I don't have
Ah OK. OK. Very, very good. SO
All this to say that this PC
has indeed disappeared and if you
You weren't aware, well there you go, I...
I'm talking about it now. OK. Is it that
do you know anything about this
disappearance? Well
Absolutely not. No. But no.
All right. OK. And yet, uh, this PC has
disappeared from your team.
It's true.
It's true. I don't know. I ask the
question. Maybe.
Yeah, maybe. All right. But you
You're not aware.
No, I don't. No, no, I don't.
So, what I do first
Time is about stabilization. You
See, I'm going to get some yeses to your
unaware
or I'm going to get some no buts on
in this case, negative questions.
You are not aware of this. No, I am
Not aware. So that PC has disappeared. On
agrees. Yes. Yes. In fact, I'm going to
retrieve "yes" votes without your knowledge to create
a climate of trust.
The more "yes" votes I get, the more I create
The more names I collect, the better the relationship.
All right ? The more I destroy the relationship.
Knowing that the names I just mentioned
"Get it from there, those aren't real names."
Since you are not aware. No,
I'm not aware of that. So it's a
Yes, negation makes a yes. OK,
Alright. Now, let's imagine...
the fact that I know you have this
information and you know I have this
information, and so there, you're going to have to...
The blow to resist. That works ? OK.
So, would you mind if I told you...
Called by your first name? I'll tell you about it
pray. Marwan.
All right. OK. So it's definitely Mathieu.
Is that it? This is Mathieu.
OK. Alright. So what I...
that I think I understand, and stop me
If I'm wrong, it's obviously because
You clearly do not want to
You will inevitably express your opinion on this subject.
for legitimate reasons.
Once again, I'm not going back
above. We agree.
No, I'm happy to express myself. Just
I am being accused of something, or someone
we revolve around in this team.
I'm not aware of that, so it's
I can't, I can't express myself as much
whatever you want. I
All right.
I have nothing to say to you.
All right. Will there be a reason?
for someone to tell me in
the fact that you were aware of everything
That ?
Well, I don't think so. I don't see anyone
who might want to harm me.
All right. So, this is a
trick question. So this is a
step-by-step question. When I ask you, is it
that there will be a reason why
someone tell me
h
that you've actually seen in 90% of the
In this case, if you justify yourself, then...
That means you have a level of
The guilt will be much higher.
If you haven't done anything, you'll generally...
To say it's impossible. OK, but actually
Look at how I'm asking you the question.
That's what we call a bait question.
A question to be answered in stages. Is there
would have a reason for someone to me
actually say that you are aware of
All of that? I'm not telling you someone told me
He said you were aware of that. No,
If I do that, you're going to tell me no, it's
Not possible. Except that, in fact, I use
deliberately the hypothesis and in
Depending on your answer, it will help me.
And in fact, if you say "there you go,"
Someone would want to harm me, and I...
I will deliberately go there.
All right ? And so someone could
wish harm on this company?
Well, there's always potentially some
Enemies, I don't know. Me, I
I'm trying to collaborate there, but I
perhaps people who would like
take my place or
All right. Which would be a good reason
in this case, to be able to steal this
PC. You know, in politics,
Ah, the company is trying to steal the PC, I know.
No, someone would want to take my place
would accuse me of being one of them. But it's not
something that
And that's something you
Whether or not you fear being accused
wrong?
Oh yeah, that's awful. It's awful
to be accusatory.
Yeah, I can imagine.
And you see, I'm not saying I understand.
because I actually can't understand
and actually I'm deliberately stabilizing
and then I'll open it and at some point
Given you're going to tell me I might at
After 2 hours, you're going to tell me "No
But listen
Maruan, I don't want to talk about this.
that's the topic. OK, go ahead. That's where you got stuck.
intentionally, it's going to be harder for
Me. And you're going to tell me, for example, but
Marwan, I don't want to talk about the
subject. Go ahead.
Well, I, no, I can't anymore, I can't
We're not going to talk about this subject anyway.
It is
All right. All right. I just...
Understand this clearly. Is there a reason for
That ?
So you see your cognitive load, I
I will deliberately saturate it.
All right. If I know you have latency
normally answer questions
very simple, you need one to two
seconds to respond and then you move on to
three. Obviously, that's going to give me
a lot of information and in fact
I'm going to continue like this. I do
just a little something, and so what
What's important is how I'm going to tell you
trip you up without your knowledge and
sometimes you will produce
inconsistencies in relation to statements
that you were able to hold 2 hours ago.
So
which will actually allow me to win
a bit of land and playing on it.
But after all that, obviously, it's a
Not very technical.
When you do all that, you take some
notes?
Yes, when I can. So.
OK.
When I can and when I can't,
Sometimes I ask the person
Is it OK for me
record it. So.
OK.
Uh, interesting. I could come on
AI plays a role in this, but we'll see.
It might come later.
Ah, I had a case on LIA about that.
Yeah.
Uh, on some
So, regarding manipulation, if we
come back a bit here, we're on a retreat
information, negotiation,
influence. Hm hm.
So, uh, the basics, and that's why
I thought of AI, it's still the one
Speak, you know, often broad language
model. So you need to have a
one in AI or data,
We're talking about a datalec, so a...
From a base, you need information.
Either you had some before,
So we're going to tell you yes, he stole the computer
or he did c, he did that and so on.
Either you arrive and then you go to
collect, collect, collect a
maximum to confront and uh, there you go uh
this collection of information, you say you
will really talk 10-15% often in
an ego or in an exchange. We will
talking with clients or
partners. I've been trying for years
for quite some time now, me, of
not to be the first to speak, of
Leave it, uh, but you'll have time.
in time people who are going to have the same
The strategy that you see. So you
which makes sense at one point.
Yeah.
When do we choose to let go?
Plugged in or not?
Yeah, that's a good point. Uh, already the
NGOs represent 80% of
preparation
and 20% operational driving.
All right ? So that means that we
can afford to improvise in ego if
We are prepared. Otherwise, in this case
Once again, we don't improvise. When
we are in contact indeed, that's it
as we have just seen. Either I recovered
upstream information, which
is part of the preparation. So.
So, in this case, I'm going to try
precisely to extract from it in order to understand
your objective and your challenge, and see if
It is possible to install an ICP. That's it
as we were saying earlier. NOW,
I see that you are someone who is not very
prolix, okay, which is quite a bit
locass.
H
And in fact, that's how I'm going to do it
so that you give yourself up without realizing it.
So, I'm coming back to the same thing. If
I see that indeed
You have trouble opening up, I'm going to...
so that you give yourself up. NOW,
I can see you're not succeeding. I see
that I can't do it. All right ? And
Often, it's about asking yourself, "Is that what?"
So, do we make the first move or not?
OK. It depends on many things. That
depends, uh, on your relationship with time, that
depends on what's at stake, it depends on
the goal you set for yourself. Pooh
also depends on your knowledge of
walk. I'll give you a very good example
simple in this case. For example,
I'm looking to buy a material
First time at your place, okay, but I
I have no knowledge of the price of
market, I'd have to be an idiot
in this case to make a
suggestion because it's possible I have
shot 10 times less or 10 times more. And
That puts me in an impossible situation.
If I shoot 10 times less, you're going to...
say "But wait, you're not
credible. If I shoot 10 times more, I
"I'm going to pay 10 times too much for that." So
So, if I suffer from an asymmetry
information, in this case, if I
I don't know the in this instance
context in which you operate, I
I will always make sure that
the possibility that it came from you
the information that you shoot me first one
proposal. Now, if I know well
in this case the context in which
I am evolving and I want to create an anchor
psychological,
That's it.
I'm going to shoot a proposal. For what ?
Because I want you
react to it. Either you modify it,
Either you tell it, but ultimately it's okay
become an anchor and whatever your
The answer won't matter to me. But if I
Do that, that's what I know in
the occurrence the environment in which
I'm evolving because otherwise, obviously I
I'm going to shoot too high, too high.
either too low. That's why
I need to know that.
That's one of the things
basic stuff, anyway. I think that's it
At Ben Orovic's, I don't know if you see
This book is called Hard Things. Good,
It's more of a startup thing.
nation, let's say, there are a few
years. But it seems to me that in the
in his book,
they say, and I still had trouble with
I'm finding it hard to let go of this
the idea of ​​always being the first to
shooter for anchoring. That is to say,
As much as I listen, at one point
When it comes to negotiating, you'll say to yourself, well
And they finally say voluntarily
you shoot very low like that you put in
You have an ego where the thing should
logically ending at 100,000 and then
You're going to say OK 70, then the other one...
face you know there's a kind of thing where
He had in mind, "If I get out of this..."
Well, maybe I'll manage to take
120, you put a 70 there, it's dead actually
You wrecked his 120, you see
Yeah, I see, but that depends on the
balance of power you shoot 70 you and you
suffer from excessive competition.
The guy's going to say, "Get out of here!"
In this instance, you are not credible."
And in fact,
there is no "if you want" truth
absolute on that subject. Another one
Sometimes, it really depends on the context. I
I can give an example if that suits you.
I've worked a lot for funds, I
continues to do so in the case of
acquisition of shares, mergers and acquisitions and
others, but sometimes I am
mandated by SME owners who want
to exit and you see that they want
resell their company. I have a great
an example to give you to show you
that you absolutely must not shoot in
first at times.
So this is a female business owner.
She is 45 years old, she wants to sell her
box. The challenge, remember, is
not financial, its stake
It's about enjoying life. She has
I worked like crazy, and it worked. And his
The goal is to try to promote
at best his box to have a more
Happy retirement. OK. The challenge is to take advantage of
the life. The objective, you remember, right?
hope of gain, in this case the
sell as best as possible. And so we do
we'll do the prep work together and we'll work on
the valuation, obviously, and in fact, its valuation
It's quite simple, this time it's the
bidda, which roughly corresponds to 1
year of turnover anyway
Yeah, that's it, to put it simply.
The box is small, it's 255 and
She told me this, she called me sir
Married
if I sell it for about a year from
business I would be happy, okay, she is
approached by a background, therefore she is
She was courted, okay, she told me, you
You can take the negotiation, I don't know.
to do and all that, so I'm taking Lago and
Often driven by ego, I take a position
very low. All right. I love this
a phrase that a UN diplomat had
learned. Be smart oxop, be brilliant
But he looks stupid. People, they
love to feel superior to themselves, to
We. Therefore, we must contribute to their
sense. It was at this moment that the
Their defenses fall.
So, we arrive at the first round of
Negotiation and therefore quickly, he asks me
Finally, what is my valuation of the box?
So, I play the fool, often it's
what I do. I'm playing the innocent.
voluntarily and uh and actually I
I want him to type in a number. I want to
the occurrence that they shoot a first
number because once again I don't
I don't know their financial reality and
I don't know to what extent this
a box that might be a little gem
for them or that sort of thing could
to sign up for, you see, a chain of
higher value.
So I'll make it simple for you, it takes more
for 2 hours and after 2 hours he told me
shoot a first figure. remember,
It's 25. Yeah, remember that. That's it.
Don't worry, I'll remember these things.
First figure: 15 million.
Or
15 million. And so here, I have to hide
my surprise
because, in my case, my framework
my reference point is my preparation for
NGO with this woman who told me one year
of turnover, or this time of 5
Millions, should I take it all or not?
That's what you would have done a lot
better than me. So what is it then?
What do I do? I told them, listen,
I didn't have those figures in mind. Good
Listen, I'll get back to you.
Well, I'm a little surprised by all this and
I'm deliberately playing the distance game here.
Okay, it's not very complicated, I'll tell you
To make a long story short, we're selling it for 17.5 million.
She was waiting for 25. If I shoot one
the first digit, even if it's just 3 or 4
millions, I'm missing out on Anego. THE
The potential loss would be too great. There,
I have no interest in messing up a number.
I am being courted. No,
No, but it's certain and it's certain. After,
It's always the same. For me, that's it.
was more in the IMO. I have some
trends to shoot low. Yeah.
Then, I... So, that's where you do your
best deals and that's where you
I might miss out on better deals.
That is to say
In the IMO, that's what you're saying. Uh, you
is on a beautiful property that is being sold to a
price, you know. We're telling you, me
Best deal I've made in IMO.
I bought it at the price
Like me, I bought my desk from
price, but the price was incredibly
down. But everyone nearby was negotiating
and some missed out on a
something that, you see, that was even a little
below 2 million euros. I have
I said, well, I shoot at 2 million
And I was looking to save 20,000. I
Say, but it's 1%, who cares, you see?
And so it's true that I'm not
inevitably very strong in V, always very
strong on that because I always
I want to get a good deal. Me
I have my own problem with my own b that
I'll deliver it to you, the guil is good
pipe. You see?
Uh, OK. Um, have you ever had one of the...
noo on which
Can a single sentence change everything? Uh
Oh yeah, I had that. I had that on one
Lego, who messed up? Hmm, do you want that?
Yeah. Yeah, it's horrible.
Uh, because it's also because we had to
reimburse with our money then
It's a state-owned company.
OK.
Um, actually, that's how you...
misunderstand human nature. It is
Extremely interesting. how did you
misunderstands the human condition. SO
It's a state-owned company, you know.
Very, very good. Uh, it's a very, very
major negotiation. It's a renegotiation.
of a huge multi-contract
billions. OK.
And so I am called by number 2
of this company and then its executive committee. OK.
So the negotiation is long, there is
A lot of preparation. And this number 2
that I don't know, uh, even though he told me
called, he sees that the preparation she
is extremely long. Damn it, we're in
bored out of his mind. We're going to
Much simpler this year. I
I'm going straight to see them, guys.
and I'm going to tell them that we only have 100
millions and then it'll be fine, they'll
Signing will be the end of it. And I told them
I say, but actually it doesn't work
like that. That's what we call the
sideways thought. You create a world
fictitious, there you go, in this case
quickly dismiss the subject. The guys don't
They'll never sign up for that. Not only
That's not what they want, but in
It will no longer have any value. They
They didn't even fight to get it. They
he told me "No, no, but it's me who
"makes the decision." So I say
indeed, if you take the
decision, that means that you are
capable of assuming it. And there, these teams
They look at me and say, "But Marwan does..."
something." So I isolate it. So
This is number 2 in this box. I say
"Listen, he had a status of
president." I said, "Listen, sir,
Mr. President, with all due respect,
I can owe you, those guys we have
I know them from a previous relationship.
life. If you give them the 100
millions that we have, which is roughly
Our overall budget, okay? No
only it won't have any value for
Okay, them, but in addition they will
summon us again to ask us for a
billion behind
because the absence of resistance
Ultimately, what we will do is not...
than to increase their level of requirements. That
This is a basic principle in ego. And he
He told me, "No, but I do what I want,
"The boss is the boss." I
Indeed, but it's the boss who
accept the consequences. So he
Don't listen to me. OK. And there, without us.
warn us, listen carefully without warning us
The next day, he goes to see the clients.
All right ? he will see the opposing side
And he arrives, he says this. Well, this
This year, we're going to make things much simpler.
I'm going to play the card of
transparency. And the worst part is that he
is honest. It is transparent. I have
that 100 million, we won't be able to go
beyond. So there you go, I'm giving you this and
We sign. Do you agree? The guys
They reply, we'll take it, we'll take it
good grade. He says no, but you are
Okay to sign. He does it, we tell you
He called us back 3 days later.
He reminds us that he is asking for 1.5 billion.
So we gave 100 million for nothing.
For what ? because we just
thrown like that. They had
absolutely no value for the part
adversary. So, you see, that's it.
a few words in this case we do
screw up the analogy by saying to yourself, you see, I
I will give my all while being transparent and
Honestly, this will help solve the
things, whereas in this case it is
not what you are being asked
the types in this case for them
it was just
an appetizer the main course
arrived later. So we lost 100
Millions vanished like that. There
resistance, that's something
important. It is
Yeah. In fact, the lack of resistance,
There you go, it just raises the level
of the other's demands.
H
And in fact, that's why, in ego, the
More importantly, it's not the actual gain,
That's the perceived gain. That's the most
important. And that, by far, is an example.
very simple. Um, if I ask you
Mathieu, I don't know, let's say 10% of
discount
And you tell me, Marwan, no problem, I
I should have asked for 20 because
Earlier you were a guy at 15 to 15
millions, you went looking for 175. If you
I said 15 million is fine, he
would say ah
There is a problem. Yes, yes, there is a
issue. It will be said, "That's it." Yeah.
So, look, if I...
Ask for 10 and you tell me yeah, I think
I'm going to... I should have asked for 20.
Now look, if I fight
for 4 hours to get 1%, I
would be 1000 times more satisfied than
to get 20% like that. That's why
that once again, the perceived gain
always prevails over the actual gain. It is
That's why if you're good at ego, you
will ensure that 1% will be much more
than 20%.
That's what's important. This is the
earnings received. That's not the real gain.
Very interesting.
Did you understand at any point?
Have you ever arrived from
understand at some point that you were
Were you manipulated yourself?
Oh yes, of course. We all do.
I was the first.
do. Yeah.
Uh, and to realize it afterwards.
Yeah. Maybe, or but like, at a
At this moment, I'm going to say wow, they're...
Wow!
because you, on the other side, I imagine you have
You also have Maruan town halls with
who you are negotiating with.
Ah yes, yes of course, obviously
obviously. and I have no pretensions to
anything. But sometimes either
You are being manipulated by people who
They asked you to go and negotiate, you
realize during the negotiation that you have you
Don't negotiate for things that have...
sold. There you go, it happened to me once.
not complicated
in the way he wanted it, it was them
They knew, it wasn't a thing
Yeah, exactly. They told me, "Here's the thing."
the environment I was going to
evolve and then finally I surrender
realized that wasn't it at all. Except
that you can't go back
during the year,
It was very complicated. Anyway, and the
Second point, yes, opposite is
This is often the case in negotiations with people
overestimates you, underestimates you, uh, they do
of the omission, okay, uh, and where you
either lies brazenly or resorts to
bad faith. And that's the whole point.
difficulty in ego, that's why our
negotiations are complex, the
yours and mine, it's because
that we never control 100% of
the environment. H
so when the person tells you well there
Your competitor has paid; if you pay...
No, we stop working. You can't
to know if your competitor has paid, except
if you gather information
differently. So there, the person...
He's obviously manipulating you. And so that
it happens to me, let's say every
weeks. Every week, all the
The difficulty is how you wear a
an enlightened perspective behind it all. SO
That's why detecting lies,
It's interesting, and that's why
gathering reliable information is
interesting.
It makes me laugh, this your competitor at
pay because that's really the
that's what we call in the...
I don't know if it's the same in the
negotiations, but the forks, you know where
You're going to take it; I did that recently.
a fork, you're going to try to take
two separate voices. So, in particular, me
I separated that, it's really the
awful interrogation techniques
I recently found I have a
second door at my house and I found
the key in the door and I
wondered if my eldest daughter hadn't
blocked the night she was supposed to babysit my
my boys. And the next day what we
My wife and I did "Jul, you're going to..."
"With mom and him, you come with dad."
Do that.
And so we both arrived and then
You know, you're going to the other one, you mean?
Jul told me, Jul told me, but no, Dad, I
I swear, but don't lie, Jules told me so.
kind of awful, awful, but actually at the
Sometimes I find it so awful and
And it was so funny, and I
What I liked was that they didn't give in and that
so that
at one point I didn't have the final word but
I've never had it, in any case I've never
no one gave in, so
Ah, what you can do differently if
This interests you because it happened to me.
arrived. Uh, actually, they're
techniques that I then use on
children, it's true that for what you
Well, that's a bit abrupt. SO
Once, I came home and there I saw that he
There's a Nutella stain on the sofa.
We have a cream-colored sofa in the living room.
So, I isolate each one in
his room. So Nathanaël in his
Eleanor was in her room. And
So I'm going to go see each of them
them, and I'll start with Eleanor, and I'll...
Tell me, Eleanor, tell me in this case, uh
what punishment should be inflicted on that
Or the one who did it? And she told me
well, the one who did that in this case
He's grounded for a month.
blah blah blah. OK, I'll...
either she's very strong or OK
Then I'll go see Nathanel and I'll say
Well, there you have it. In your opinion, what a punishment it is.
What punishment should be inflicted on the person who did this? me
said not much. I say OK.
Okay, you're going to stay with me.
Often the culprits, they tend
to reduce the level of punishment and therefore
That's how we manage to...
to catch. You can do that to your children.
It's not bad. It is
Uh, very interesting. How how
So that's one way to
to detect or finally prevent the
A lie, but how?
How do we feel about it? Because
that I believe that often you, me, there is
We can feel it, we can detect it. For me, there is
often has weak signals
that you feel. H
But sometimes you mess up
because there are also people under the
stress or things like that will make you
to give the impression that they are lying then
that in fact he's not lying.
What is the basis of all this?
Yeah, that's a very good point. There you
Talk about the Auello error. The error and
That's very good, I can see you're good.
The point on this subject is that if I can...
obviously allow there is no
judgement
and in fact the risk is that of correlation
stress leads to lying.
We agree. There are people who
are stressed and who don't lie and
There are people who aren't stressed and
who lie. We agree? Yeah.
What is the Auello error? This is the
fear of being wrongly accused, which will
produce behaviors comparable to
People who were rightly accused.
Yeah.
That's the principle. You get arrested
by the police, you have nothing to do with it.
to blame, but the fear of being accused
Tor will increase your blood pressure
and your heart rate. And if I see
If you're not feeling well, I'll tell myself "Ah
Well, so, it's certain, yeah, he is
"Shady." So actually, you're just scared.
of being wrongly accused. That's the mistake.
Otello comes from Shakespeare.
For what ? Because at some point,
In fact, Desd Demon, she is accused of
Thor. So, he, uh, so, uh, uh, I
I don't remember his name
Exactly. In short, in the book,
He thinks she cheated on him and he sees
fear on his face and uh he
said, "Well, if there's fear, it's
"That you must have cheated on me." So
that in fact, she's just afraid of being
wrongly accused. OK? So. In short, so from
So, actually, what's important
it's about decorating the stress of
a lie because, once again, it's
two things that have absolutely nothing to do with
see. So when you talk about signals
weak, thank you very much. When you speak
weak signals, basically all of that
It's very intuitive. That's because there are
things that we manage to capture but we have
I'm having trouble putting it into words, actually.
Know this. So, I'm going to break
a huge misconception. There are none
A universal signal linked to lying.
OK?
Everyone reacts differently depending on
situations. So that's why
scratch your nose, look up at
right or all that, obviously it doesn't
it is based on no scientific foundation.
What's important is to work
from there concordant beams. In
Big, what is it? that's
The more beams I have that converge
towards the center, plus the accuracy of my
analysis will increase. OK? And so this
What's important is to use
beams that are recognized
scientifically. All right ?
Knowing that no beam is not
Let's say it is not self-sufficient. This
What's important again is
to cross paths with people. Yeah.
And often what we're going to look at are
The inconsistencies, okay? THE
behavioral anomalies. I am a
A very simple example. If I do this by
For example, my torso is open, my arms
are wide open and I'm telling you to listen
Mathieu, I'm delighted to see you again. There,
You will see that there is congruence between
what I say and what my body can
to demonstrate.
I'm so glad to see you again. If
I'm doing this, I'm delighted to see you again.
You're going to say, "Wait, Maran, you're kidding me."
off my face
And you'll be right because there, you're going to
to see that there is in fact an incongruity
and all the difficulty
pardon.
The whole difficulty is being
capable of detecting these anomalies
behavioral simply for
to increase our analysis. For what ?
Because lie detection at
the same title as medicine, it is a
deductive science.
It is a deductive science.
The percentage for detecting the
Lies are roughly 50% of the time.
that is the profession. So it's the equivalent
by chance. OK? The best in the world
are capable of detecting lies
in 8 to 9 cases out of 10.
All right ? And that's very complicated
to get to this point. So you're going to tell me
what are the final indicators of
deceptions on which one can one can
to base it on? So, uh, then I can tell you
to provide some reliable clues.
All right. I'll invite you to read one of
my works on the subject that
interests you. But anyway.
What's it called?
You're lying.
OK.
You're lying. Which is prefaced by Paul
Heckman.
And Paul Eckman is the greatest
world authority on lying. It is
the one who inspired the Light to M series,
I don't know if you've seen this series.
So.
Yeah. who was great and who's coming back I
I'm back on Netflix now. And so
Paul Ecman has sadly passed away.
a few months ago at the age of 91
who was a huge authority and I have
I also learned a great deal from him.
So, in short, what are we going to look at?
? We're going to look at reliable indicators at
verbal, paraverbal and level of
nonverbal. So, paraverbal communication is okay.
for example, the structure of the
sentence, how are you going to construct your
sentence.
I was talking about double negation at the same time.
the time or something like that.
Yeah, exactly. Pronouns,
Sometimes you'll skip over the
pronouns or sometimes you will
changing tenses by telling a story
history, which may be what I
leading to the conclusion that there might be a
indication of deception. Regarding paraverbal communication,
This is what gives depth to the
speech, you know, it's logore, the
prosody, pitch, volume
vocal. We know, generally people
who lie, you see, you're going to have a
Vocal volume decreases, okay?
That's it, because they make themselves
usually, they make themselves very small or
you may experience a response latency which
will increase, which will be a break
compared to their baseline,
that is to say, their basic behavior
in a stress-free situation. And
Regarding non-verbal communication, we're going to look at everything.
which is a neurophysiological response.
These are very good indicators of
truthfulness because you can't
control. If I ask you to turn pale or
By dilating your pupil, you will be
unable to do so. We agree.
That's why they are very good
indicators of truth.
People who are capable of doing it.
SO
The best ones say they were their pups.
So yes, you can, in particular, with the
The Stanislavski method, that is in
the occurrence you know you manage to
to mentalize something that is
arrived. There you go, you're really alive
emotion.
So. Exactly. And at that moment, he
There are things that can happen
at the neurophysiological level.
Um, we're also going to look at the
gestures and also everything else that
is facial expression and
microexpression. So. Because the
microexpressions, which are leaks
emotional states can reveal a state
emotional that you were trying to hide.
So.
And you, because here we are, you
See, for example, earlier, I
Just take it, you've already covered a lot of ground.
points. So, non-verbal, verbal, the
paraverbal.
Paraverbal, so that's what you were saying.
logoré, prosodit. pitch,
Silence, pause. Yeah.
Yeah.
That, for example, fascinates me because
I listened and read things about it
of that.
Yeah.
But the question is, do you
You become aware of it yourself when you
Are you looking at someone? Do you
Tell me at some point, or did you...
How do you feel? You see, is it from
The expert? Here, we always come back to
The Linear versus the Acquired. But you're going to
Hey, he's speeding up, he's talking
Well, he hesitates. Uh, you see, well, you...
Take that again, okay? So logoré
prosodurais wouldn't even exactly tell you
Which one is which one? I know there are some
one where you speak quickly, there's one where you
Take breaks, there's one where you
Speak loudly. That's verbal volume. Uh
and so there are some where you have
Hesitations, hesitations. There are some
There, you see, I have some e's, some things,
Things like that. Uh
For you, it's something where you say
Look, when you listen to someone, you
Hey, look, he did that there, he did
That or it's a whole.
Yeah. So that's a good one
indeed, a question before returning
in ego or when I conduct an interview
sensitive or hearing, you see, the
For the first 10 minutes, I'm going to establish your
baseline without your knowledge, that is to say your
basic behavior in a situation
stress-free.
And for that, I'm going to ask you some
questions that are more accurately described as demographic.
I'm going to take an interest in you and I'm going to
set your stress level to zero so that you
Make yourself comfortable. You know, people, they
They love talking about themselves, like I was saying.
So we're going to talk about anything and everything.
What. And here I'm going to record a lot of
things at your place. So I have a grid
In my head, it's been more than
I built it 25 years ago and in fact
It's becoming automatic for me. But
Initially, before, obviously, I had to
writing everything down, or recording it, or something like that
of things.
So I'm going to be clear about this.
indicators related to verbal communication, to
paraverbal and nonverbal communication. And then
within the framework of the NGO or
the interrogation, I'll see, is it
that there are discrepancies compared to the
baseline. These discrepancies are not for
You're lying as much as you think, but it might
also translate discomfort or
other things. And it was at that moment
which I will dig into even further because
try to extract information.
So that's why in the first
In time, you are obliged to establish a
baseline, okay? A behavior of
base in a situation of lack of
stress and then I'll check if
there are discrepancies compared to this
baseline during the year or during
the interview. And then what if I have to
to put myself in your shoes when you're on
neg
I must, I must behave, that is to say
or naturally
Yes, but there are people who
naturally
They will very quickly become destitute, won't they?
that we need to try to change, I want
not necessarily right away but
in absolute value
speak more softly, for example
try to be more then better
Is it possible to master intonations?
Should we try to be like
In absolute terms, that's what he needs to be able to do.
to always hold onto this thing and tell yourself
hold on, I'll stick with that, or and then to
at one point to think, "Hey, I'm going to be..."
capable, in an ego, of telling me okay, there I
Go back in there, she spoke to me like
He spoke to me like that, and then I
I'm going to increase the volume a little and I
I'm going to be more threatening. Is it
that this is something we must
To raise awareness, to avoid? Is it
You have to try to always be monotonous.
monotonous. Is this something
something that needs to be mastered completely
Fingers? The theatre, cabbage
That's a very good point. The key is this
Agility remains, however. What is
What's important is how we adapt to
the other one. especially when you are suffering
of an unfavorable balance of power. SO
For example, if you are a very
calm down, you see, there's a principle of
base, erratic behaviors
are worrying, especially regarding attitudes
Calmness is reassuring. So if I see that you
You're a very calm person, you see, well
I'm going to slow down my volume, my my
flow rate, I'm going to reduce my voice volume
to synchronize with you as best as possible.
For what ? Because I know that if I
I'm too fast, it might...
the chance of getting angry. And in fact
Once again, we know this, that's what
which are called the points of
resemblance. Once we have some, in
In fact, we feel more naturally in
safety with the other person. So.
Now I know that you are someone
very fast. If I am too slow, I
I might annoy you. So, I'm going to
to deliberately increase things.
And that's the principle of stabilization
under negotiation. You see, you should never
going too fast to extract
information. What is important,
It's about stabilizing the other person. And so,
How do you stabilize someone? I'll
As I was saying, we're going to get yeses to his
unaware
And you see, well, maybe we'll do some
paraphrasing, verbalization
emotional, verification, of the
reversal. There are many techniques
for that. And so if you are slow by
For example, it was rather calm, I
maybe two or three
forward stabilization techniques
to extract information. If you are
very quickly because I see that you're going
I'll go fast, I'll use as much as possible.
For what ? Because if I do too much
stabilization, I know it's going to
to annoy you. So in fact the key is
the other one. That's why yet another
Sometimes, I will adapt to you. I
I will adapt to you. You see, for example,
I speak quite fast, but when I am
In negotiations, I talk a lot more
slowly.
Much more slowly. Now, if
You're a fast person, you'll see.
I'm going to increase my bandwidth. Actually,
Ideally, we do it, we
synchronize with the other, especially when
you are suffering from a power imbalance
unfavorable. I don't know if they are
Mediterranean origins or blood
of culture, but I think you and
We have a few things in common.
about that. What bothers me a little
I was impressed by some people.
it's the
their ability to both be and remain
calm in environments where it
gets excited
because I can do enough, I can
quite quickly, potentially a little
to boil from within
and at the same time very scarf-like, you see, where you
There will be people who will be
assassins of speech.
things like that, where is the place in
All of this could be intelligence.
That is to say, you have people and I am
deceives perhaps from near or far but
which are not necessarily I could
to talk again about the President of the United States or
things like that, uh, if I
I had to compare a Trump and a Macron
For example, I think Macron is
1000 times smarter than Trump.
Sometimes, I don't know. Finally, of course
THE
but potentially less good
negotiator, uh
uh, less subtle to understand some
things, even the people maybe
either way. And uh
My question is how do I
I can succeed in this ego too.
this person who will
even if bubbling inside
Not outsourcing it? Finally, is it
Does that happen to you? I imagine so.
Yeah, but that's a really good point. And
Here, we're going back to everything that is
emotional control and management of
stress, which are two completely different things
different. All right ? OK.
Often, we separate there, it has nothing to do with it.
Emotional mastery is your
ability to distance yourself from maneuver
fraudulent, of the "bad silk" type, insult,
aggression, threat, ultimatum. OK. SO
there are people, it's a bit like
So then, he turned on all the
Psychics, what. Bad faith, threat,
ultimatum. What else did you say?
And yeah, insults, aggression. So.
And there are people, actually, if you want
they're a bit like detonators
Emotional, we agree. And then he
However, there are others
people where it will slide off them like
oil on a waxed canvas. Or
All right. That's the mastery part
emotional. And then you have the part
stress management. You have people for
of which stress is a factor
motivational
like you for example I think and like
Me too. And then you have people
for which stress is a phenomenon
disruptive. They need everything
plan, control everything. So.
I often get a little into the
I'm in a scrum because I have no choice.
So, we're being pushed to go and we
will improvise. That's why you can
have very good control
emotional and very poor management
stress or the opposite. That's what it is
different.
You can see they're both very strong too.
And both are very strong as well. SO
when you have both very strong, it's
Better, if I may say so. For what
? because not only do you know
resisting pressure, that's it, some
stakes and besides you know that the
bad faith will not affect you or
Aggression. I made myself
insult an uncountable number of times
in negotiations, whether on a large scale
distribution or in conflicts
social issues or extortion or
kidnapping. To be perfectly honest, that's what I'm talking about.
It doesn't do much for me. For what ?
Because, in fact, I'm focused on
My goal is to go there. But there
to people who tell me "Maruan by
For example, this negotiation, I could never
learn it. I know that guy will
to act in bad faith, I will
pull the pin on what will compromise the
negotiation. And I said to him at that moment,
but you never enter into negotiations
because we're going to get insulted. In
They are too powerful for us.
That's how they are. That's why
that we cannot deliver all the
the same battles. That's why he
You have to know yourself. This is really the
key. And that's why there are
missions, for example, that I can
refuse because I know it will
perhaps touching on my vulnerabilities and
That's when you have to accept it.
to get up, to be picked up.
And other missions that we will take on
because the others are not capable
to do it. and the fact of
pull the pin.
Well, I've made a lot of progress.
In other words, I think that
at the same time, but I find, I find
That's paradoxical. That is to say, I
I remember one I used to do when I was younger.
on fundraising rounds between 25 and 30
years or things like that where you see we
they could put me in the spotlight
tenacity, a number of things
to never give up and so on and
etc.
And at the same time, you see, I had this guy
in my circle, which was the
president of one of those companies that we have
that we have that I had created s'appens,
He was the former president of France
Television called Xavier
Gouille. To be president of a company
Like that, in fact, you have to be an animal
political, you see, someone very
But in fact, he, with his composure, his
calm, he always got what he wanted
in another way.
And so at times, in fact, we had
a great closeness but he told me
Much inspired. at the same time, there are
At times, I thought to myself, but the fact of
By being more direct, you also lose one
So, little by little
The question is, how do you
I really must know how you've mastered everything
That ? Do you have to at some point?
to be able to say "Okay, I'm going now,
Do you ever get used to going into
"Really very strong people?" There I
Yeah, rarely, but when I do
Indeed, that's one approach.
tactical. Actually, what helps me is the
game of positions. You see, you can
to take a high position,
intermediate or low. All right ?
In short, the high position is what you preach.
That's when you dictate the rules.
Basically, all dictators do that
or all the all-powerful people.
An intermediate position is more like a
adult position in analysis
transactional rather than things
reasoned. And as a child it's more
the child, let's say in a low position, which
submits. All right. And I'll take it.
often a low position. So you're going to
So, Maron, you're submitting to me?
in
I would like us to talk about it. Yeah
Yeah, actually I'm submitting to the form
but never on the substance. In the noo
that I can live, the stakes are very
important. People are all-powerful.
and they resort to extension or to
coercion to obtain what they
want.
If I took a high position, that
would give that. No, but wait, but
I'm never going to give you that. If I
Do that, the risk is that he'll kill the hostage.
either it breaks the business relationship
that we have or the guys leave in
strike. And so I can't hold...
high positions. Position
An intermediary, that's the dream. But
often they are not yet ready for
to maintain these positions. For what ? because
that they want to impose things.
So often, in fact, you see, I'm going to
I will compromise on the form, but I will
to remain in control of the fund. So I'm going to tell you
give the feeling, Mathieu, that you
You have the situation under control in terms of form. By
Against the substance of the matter, you'll get nothing. SO
Look, if you can see my hands, they are
like that. I was in a low position, you
you will be in a high position and during
Year, look what's going to happen.
That's what's going to happen.
H
He's going to have this balancing act. We're going
to return to that level a little bit to your
without knowledge. And that's why I take
low positions, but when I take
sometimes high positions, that is
It's rare, you see, I'm going to get angry.
It's a tactical approach and that
often destabilizes people because
They don't know me like that and they
they say to themselves, "Perhaps we went too far"
"Away with him." And that allows me to
regain the upper hand. So when I
Yes, that's a tactical approach.
It's not that I suffer from my, from my, no
Emotional control, that is.
What I find difficult is that there
something we're making progress on with
age, and I see it in our, and change
relationship with Clem here present, it is
that typically you can have Clem, you
Tell me if I'm wrong, perhaps more
You mean I'm exaggerating?
but at times, a moment of, we can't
Let him talk to us like that or we
We can't leave it to him, you see what
I mean ? this position.
Oh yeah, it's going up, but then you have to
It's bad, you need to say no, but it
He's just walking all over us. I
I may have a tendency of origin like
And sometimes I tell myself no, I must
that we are more intelligent than that
But it's not easy. And I got the
sear but but and at the same time I had but
For me it's really something where
I swallow a huge lump. That's to say
that if I have to go into an ego of there
from a year ago, notably there, there
had a lawyer who, but you know, a
day she's on something extra about her
So, we're going to come to, you see, everything at
You spoke in bad faith at the time.
humiliation, uh
and uh
You really see, with something where one day
She pulverized me in front of a lot of people
and so forth, and I swallowed the thing. I
I swallowed it, but it was very difficult.
but when I say very hard I don't
something where you see it and I think to myself, it's not
I don't know if that's smart.
Not intelligent, but it's just like
That's how I feel about it, that's how I took it.
At the time I didn't have enough to...
resume, but after 2 months, then 3 months
After a moment I had grasped a
opportunity where she had erred on a
thing and I sprayed it, but I had
and in fact
I don't know if it's good or not.
I think that in the end, in the noo, it...
served, that is to say, there comes a moment when in
do
I have regained a form of ascendancy
because I had been humiliated in
public in a way, and so it was necessary
that it was, you know, the, they say, the
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
cold
and at the same time I am where
I admire it even more than what
What you're saying is, it's about saying, but we don't care.
[ __ ] it actually
I don't care, she got me, she got me
humiliated
People are there, that's just a facade.
as long as in the end I get what I have
We didn't care if we wanted to, that's the real thing
Intelligence, I don't know what you mean by that.
I think I completely agree
I agree with you. In fact, sometimes
We must accept losing some
battles to win the war. And
It's true that in my profession, I
I have been humiliated 50,000 times. And in
In fact, you might say to yourself, "But Marwan,
"Are you going to let yourself walk all over people?" And
Actually, not at all. There are
unfortunately in contexts where you don't have
of choice. You see, for example, in
large retailers, especially when I
I negotiated face-to-face before the networks
social media, but I was insulted.
an incalculable number of times. You
I can't imagine if people saw
what happens in the shopping boxes,
There are plenty of people who would boycott it.
Certain. Always true.
Yes, that's what I'm accompanying. So, they
They can no longer insult like before, but
They put more bacteria on you. YOU
You're a Nazi, you're completely useless
way to clear. There you go, you always have
In fact, that and what is very mild by
compared to what was happening before. And in
In fact, I remember when I was
I had teams in ego, in particular
when I was customer director
national teams at Red Bull or when I
I used to work at Danon. Um, actually, I
I sometimes said to the freezer, is that it
So you accept the insult?
? He told me and my teams, he said
"Oh no, I can't stand it."
Yeah. So, don't come engo
because we're going to get killed. They
are all-powerful and unfortunately we
will have no choice. That doesn't mean it
that we're going to be walked all over, but in
In this instance, we will regain the upper hand.
differently. That's why again
once I return to these words of
Talent who always said he would compromise on
Form is key to maintaining control over substance. And
Personally, I think that intelligence...
that's where it ultimately comes from, that's what
sometimes we know that we are going to be
finally in the lion's den.
We know we will have little power but
we will regain power a little
differently. And that's how it is too.
that we will earn respect. NOW,
there are universes where in fact people
They insult you and the insult has no place in
there was no reason to exist, and at that moment, he
We need to refocus immediately. So when
I do it, you should never point the
responsibility of the other. If by
For example, you were supposed to insult me ​​in an ego-driven way, you
see, imagine we're on a shot of
equity investment, investment bank, lawyer
tax specialist, normally that's enough, we
Let's say sanitized, okay? Imagine
It's getting out of hand and you're insulting me.
I know that if it's someone, it actually
with a very sanguine temperament, if I
I'm telling you, listen, you're going to talk to me.
Otherwise, I've seen it plenty of times.
The risk is that you'll tell me, but I
I speak to you however I want, in fact I
I can't stand that. And we risk
to crystallize tensions. You are
All right ? Because ultimately I
Point out your responsibility. What I do
Actually, I'm taking a general approach. So I
change of pronoun. I'll tell you this.
Listen, Mathieu, here's what I'm proposing.
That's where we stop. We'll stop there.
You see, like working conditions
are no longer together, which I tell you
The suggestion is that we see each other again.
later. Good day. And then, I
leave. I create guilt
Indirectly at your place, in fact, especially
so that you become aware of what
You did it. But you saw, I'm not saying
you, I say onou
and that allows me to pass the same
message but while preserving the other.
I often give this case in large numbers
distribution. So, knowing which one
the door, that's a question that
I had
For example, that's an anchor to the rupture
Indeed, and but in doing so I
creates indirect guilt. I
shows the other person that they have gone too far
far away but without, in this case
to truly point out what
did. You see?
Is everyone manipulating everyone else?
the world?
Yeah, everyone's manipulating everyone else.
world all the time. All the time, all
Time, every day. Exactly.
For everything that can be done. When you
For example, go tell your wife that she
has a beautiful dress because she just came from
buy it, even if you don't think so
Really, that's what you want to preserve
somewhere the relationship you have with
She doesn't want to hurt him. And
That's why you have lots of little ones
white lies that are linked to the
manipulation, but which are important
because in this case that's what
helps to maintain social cohesion. If
we lied every day, if we said
truly what we all think
In fact, we wouldn't have any friends left in a few days.
And that would be thermonuclear war.
always tell your wife that she has a
beautiful dress. That's it.
And so, as a result, we're all manipulating things. But
Once again, I'll remember this.
the intention behind all of this. When you
Tell your wife she has a beautiful dress.
even if you don't think so, or you say
to your friend about his new racket
tennis, she's great even if you
Don't think so. Once again, it's for
preserve the relationship.
Are the best manipulators
Do they know they are manipulating?
Are they doing it consciously?
Yeah. the best, the greatest,
Yes, indeed, psychopaths or
perverse individuals who are two personalities
pathological individuals are aware of this
that they do, and so that's where they are
all the more dangerous.
The psychopath to get rid of a
Being a psychopath is very difficult. From one
perverse, even more difficult, and them,
they are perfectly aware of this
that they do. In fact, the relationship
human is not a is not a
an end in itself, but is a means to
to satisfy objectives or interests
much more personal. So yes, they
They are very, very good at it.
Besides, it's complicated to...
take off.
Have you had many of them in front of you?
Ah yes, yes. In fact, psychopathy,
It's one person in 100. So, you
have met,
You interviewed more than 400 people.
500.
So. Yeah. Well, there you have it.
I've got a psychopath in there.
necessarily.
What is the definition of a psychopath?
?
Uh, psychopathy is being self-destructing.
criteria. All right. So if you have the se
You're a psychopath.
So it's the lack of empathy, of
Guilt and remorse, manipulative,
superficial charm, intolerance to
frustration and disregard for the rules.
I'm thinking about who we had as
psychopath. Maybe one or two
mostly men
They are overrepresented in finance and
in supply chain for information. THE
Scientific studies show this, and then
at a very high level generally as well.
Yeah. So this is the this is the
psychopathy and they are very good because
that they are great manipulators
same title as perverts. No, no
pardon.
OK.
And perverse is something else entirely.
It's even more difficult with perverts.
We're going to ask the people who...
listen to my LinkedIn comment from
note the psychopaths of generation
d'uture self en commentaire mais de les
especially mention. It's going to be, it's going to be
to be the bloodbath, the Pugila. OK.
Is honesty
Is this a bad strategy? Everything to,
You talked about honesty in...
negotiation. Is it necessary to be
honest or do you have to be
dishonest ?
So, you can be honest. You can
To be honest, if you share the same
values ​​and the same moral principles
that your interlocutor, okay? And
that there is a very high level of
trust between him and you. Otherwise, it's
Far too risky. For example,
I'm very honest, look, I
I'll tell you, I need to buy a
raw materials at home to save
millions of people and that I am
funded by the French government.
All right ? The risk is that you'll say
What ? If we don't share the same
moral principles, the same values,
Wait, he has to save some
millions of people, he is banked by
the French government, so you're going to me
to ask for billions.
That's all for now, within the framework of the
transaction.
And that's the risk. NOW,
Imagine, you're someone I know
for 25 years and we have a very high
confidence level, I can
to allow me to be honest with you because
that I know you won't want
to take advantage of the situation.
That's why you can afford to
to be honest. There you have it, once again.
if there is a very high level of
trust in the other person and if you
share the same moral principles,
Otherwise it's far too risky. It is
Too risky.
If I have to talk about manipulation,
I don't know on a large scale, you already have
summer
you in a diagram, we could try
not based on nothing or lies, but
of something where you thought, wow, the
Bastards, but they're trying to...
to do something, but something gigantic. Pooh
Has this already happened?
Yeah. Uh, where I discover it just before
to return to ego.
OK. It happened on the Champs-Élysées.
Uh, I'm being called by then, initially.
They didn't give me his identity, but I
I understand that he is the president of a
mining group.
OK.
And uh, and actually I had to
meet at 8am on the Champs-Élysées.
He has a huge office and I say his
dircab I'm saying, however, I couldn't
stay for more than an hour because after
I'm flying away, I was going on a mission, I
I don't remember where. And so they tell me, "Yeah,
"No problem." So the guy already, he
arrives at 8:40 without apologizing. There you go, I
I was roughly looking at his features
I quickly saw that the guy was
a psychopath, and in fact he explains to me
He wants to build quite quickly.
a mine. So. Um, and since he doesn't have
managed to negotiate with the populations
indigenous people who oppose the
mine construction, basically, it me
mandate to go and negotiate directly
with the indigenous populations. And in
In fact, he offers me a deal which is
Extremely interesting. as you are you have the
vulnerability opportunity, he told me if
You accept, Mr. Marie, I...
Give 1 million upfront, okay? And
if you succeed in a Success Fizz 1
a million, okay? The mere fact
If you accept, I'll take 1 million.
All right ?
And besides, if I succeed, well, that's it.
It could double the stake. SO
Do you accept the mission?
That's interesting nonetheless.
Yeah, that's interesting. No, but you
Indeed, afterwards you shouldn't be, I know
that we shouldn't just be the sirens of
the money is not
Yeah, exactly. That's not all there is to it.
the opportunity.
Yeah, well that's why. And another one
Sometimes, if you're purely opportunistic, you
Go ahead and say "OK, I'll take it". So,
seeing the seeds of money are sometimes
Suspicious when it's too easy.
Exactly. Exactly. And so he told me
said, "Do you accept the mission?"
"And so, I said to him, "Listen,
"I'll call you back." So, I'm calling now.
my friends from the UN and UNESCO because
that it is to understand the region where
We must intervene. And then they tell me
"But Marwan is actually doing it there for
to build this mine, you have to destroy
over 1000 hectares of primary forest,
make a hole the depth of
height of the Eiffel Tower, use
120,000 tons of explosives, okay.
? 120,000 tonnes of mercury, fuel oil and
In every direction. OK? And so you
destroys the whole region there and therefore the
So, do you accept? So in
So I refused because again
once it's outside of my
frame. But that's where it is
What's interesting is that if you stop at
halfway, that is to say, in the middle
Because of the gay guy, you think, well, wait a minute...
I need to negotiate in the face of
indigenous populations. Okay, I have that.
I've already been to the country, I know it pretty well.
And besides, it's money, it's easy.
I might not succeed, I would have
always taken my middle ground.
Exactly. And in fact, that's the fact
finally to question and to go a
a little bit further on which makes you say
"OK, well, right now this guy is..."
"To manipulate me." He had masked me.
voluntarily providing this information to
to make sure that I accept the mission.
There's one thing, if I go back to the
first story you told me
in this exchange, that of your father.
For me, there is, there is one of the finally we
lives in a violent world at the end of
Overall, we don't live so much in a
You see, it's a violent world on a daily basis.
That is to say, I am into violence.
not exposed on a daily basis.
Yeah, okay.
Um, I think there will be a place where
I would be truly helpless and useless. It is
That's it. That is to say, perhaps that
when it's an axis of an act of survival
that you have a one
gloc on the te then no, you told me
that he was the gloc, it must be in
plastic. So he was, he felt the
the coldness of
No, no, no, it was the cold. No, no
It wasn't made of plaster. It wasn't a
GL was something else entirely. No, well
Sure, he probably didn't know. But, but, uh...
Is there a way? How do you
I imagine all of this is happening to you.
to be in situations with people
aggressive.
How should you make them act?
internally you
for in a place where in fact is it
I don't know, I need to breathe or
if you find yourself in a situation in
which one you're not at all used to is
not your world at all
These are the people opposite who are who
they experience other things than you
Yeah
And you weren't able to prepare, you see that?
This happens to you
Yeah, of course, it happens to me, it happens to me
indeed in environments
that I don't control or on
negotiations with life stakes, uh
For example, I'm thinking right now, I have a
kidnapping in Kabou which had me very
marked on a 9-year-old child who was
tortured in a cave with a demand
ransom of over one million
dollars. So, and uh, and the kidnapper
in fact every day he told me
"So, which part of his
"Body, I cut off the fingers and all that?"
So you need to imagine...
The child's actions are horrible. I had seen
The torture videos were horrible.
So he had cut off some buoys for her.
Effectively. No, he was bleeding at
The child actually does. He was tied up by
he was hitting her feet
electrical cable. It was horrible. And
So, obviously, before...
To enter into negotiations, it is first necessary that
You manage to internalize all of that.
that and then you know it's going to be
particularly difficult with the the
kidnap. So, uh, actually, you already have
emotional management which is which is
It's difficult, you must be having it. And so there
In this case, if you don't know how to evolve
In there, you'll weigh a ton
error. OK? For what ? because
emotion will take precedence over
reason and your technical skill when you
You're going to enter into negotiations, you're going to do
anything. So what is
What's important in this case is to
negotiate at the right emotional level. SO
How do I do that? I have lots of
I can give you one method. There
The first is anchoring. And that's
on something I don't
transise never. We all have our anchors.
Anchorages are refuge zones
in which we will be
To take refuge when everything collapses around you. H
For me, it's my family, it's super
Simple, my wife and my children.
So that's why the most important
For me, it's still all of that. So when
for example I am mandated to
situations that force me, that
exceed, okay? If I don't
The anchoring, basically it looks like this. So I
I'm thinking, that child there who is being tortured,
If I can't get him out of there, that
means that his father will never see him again
Never. If I tell myself that, I have a level
of stress that is monstrous. All right.
So, to maintain an emotional level
Well, I'll tell you, it's very
Selfishness in what I do when I don't
I don't follow him at all. I have lots of
flaws, but I think that's the case.
that I inherited that from my father. I am
even too generous. At least, that's the case.
That's what my wife tells me. It is
that in fact when I go back to these
missions, I tell myself that. If I fail, at
The less my family is affected, the less it will be impacted.
H
This actually allows me to return to a
stress level is very low.
All right ? And to have the technical skill
which is suitable. And in fact, it is
the anchoring that allows you to
to get back to a good level. In
In fact, that's the principle of a
cabin depressurization in a
plane.
You know, when oxygen masks
fall, the risk is putting
first on the child and then on us.
But if you do that, you'll get yourself into trouble.
Your son is going to find himself all alone
And in fact, he won't be able to do anything. SO
That's why you have to first
to manage you. So you put on your mask and
Then you give it to the child. And that's
The same applies to ego. First, we manage ourselves.
OK? I use anchoring.
and then I enter into negotiations. And
You have to be a little selfish.
on that or sometimes I can
I have something else I can use. You
You see, I often say to myself, you see, on...
Negative spiral, I say if I am the
I am in no way the target
RECIPIENT.
H
And that's important. If, for example, you
Okay, this is really going to happen, you're going to
insult me ​​or you'll ask me for
things I could never do
and in a very coercive manner. There you go, in
In fact, I'm going to tell myself to take some
distance, well, actually I am the
target, there you go, actually I'm not the
RECIPIENT. recipient, that is
the company I represent,
the institution or that sort of thing. And
That allows me to take a lot of
taking a step back from all of this. I can
Yet another thing. I often use
also, uh, relativization. When
I'm living through hell, I tell myself there is
There's always a before and an after.
And that, that's precisely what allows me to
project. I say OK, I know that the
The next few hours or weeks will be
difficult, but there will be an aftermath and
It allows me, you see, by the
visualization already allows me to project myself towards
the future and to tell myself that all of this is
ultimately very fleeting.
Hm. So I was still using other
things, but here
Very interesting. Very visual
important.
No, but it's true that I'm trying to
You see, it's important to think things through carefully.
where you can be very bad at the same time
Negotiation can be very simple, but
I'm talking about, you see.
of aggression or things like that. You
It's possible to have people, but that doesn't happen.
often but in the street
where indeed you don't really know where you
put. Do you need to be aggressive?
In return? Do you have to be
empathetic? Do you have to listen?
and at what level you should put yourself in
do ?
Yeah, well, it all depends on how many there are.
It's always the same thing. He is
He can manage on his own, he has a knife, that's it
more complicated. there are five, that's still
more complicated.
Yeah.
So we're going to try, it's been a while, you have to
just submit.
Yeah, exactly. You only have one.
life actually comes after. That's part of it, too.
You mustn't play.
After the question comes submission.
It's to give away your watch. Well then
That's how it is. It's not... And if it is...
so finally you see for a young woman
who is on a
Ah yes, that's something else entirely, of course.
How and how can you
To fit inside a Lego set in there? Well
Yes, yes, you can negotiate sometimes. You
I can negotiate sometimes
Or you stabilize and save time
Until the police arrive, that is.
That's how you manage to...
stabilize? But it's not simple
also. That's obviously right. Oh yes,
interesting. Have you seen any conflicts or
No, you often get things happening.
which degenerate very badly. Do you
Do you have any examples? And how do we
defuse? What are the techniques of
defusing?
So, the major conflicts that I was able to
managing or large-scale crisis management,
often it was because of a
ego hypertrophy. Often, it's in
The occurrence of "tuas" means you have a certain level of ego.
who is a little too sensitive. The guys
pins So, when I say the
guys, obviously, I'm not generalizing but
But yeah, it's often
Unfortunately, it's very much in the post.
It's often men.
So you see, you have a comment which is
misinterpreted, or in fact, if you want, you
have personal issues that may
pass in front of the collective goal and there
I saw some things but going into real life
complete.
Um, and so what's important
Yes, this is the second one.
Part of it is how we arrive at
to defuse all of this. So the first
The thing to do is to clearly separate them.
the emotion of the behavior. All right ? I
I'll give you a very simple example that I have
lived in ego, especially in large
distribution before social media.
Like I was saying, people were doing
anything. So I was on the 3rd
upstairs, I was negotiating in front of this
purchasing center. There were seven of them.
facing me. At some point, there are
one of them loses it, he opens the
He rips out my PC and throws it out the window
through the window. OK. Stop.
Oh yes, but he arrived full of
things in large retail stores. But you
You just have to talk to some...
No, but I've seen people who were saying "tu" to me.
You know, you arrive at 7am on Saturday
He tells you no in the morning at 7pm, well, finally
We'll do that next week for sure, obviously, yeah
Yeah
I've experienced a lot of things, but anyway...
It ended at the time anyway, it was a
normality, so you didn't even ask yourself any questions.
question, and so you see for example there
When I see that, then that's the
reptilian regaining control there
So then I get up and I think, OK, I
I'm going to break his knees and
The problem is that, well, there are 7 of them and
it's that at some point even if I
Maybe two or three layers, that's it
that they will gain the upper hand and then
I'm going home and they're going to...
Fire, obviously.
And so what's important here is the
Emotional control, and so it is
It's important to clearly separate the
behavior of emotion. And there you have it.
how I did it. It worked well.
It doesn't always work, but there you go.
what I did. I told them, listen, I
I can only imagine, not understand
because I can't understand. I can
imagine that you are angry
because an emotion is always
legitimate for the one who feels it.
All right ? But in no way will that...
allows me to throw my PC. So in
Dude, what do I tell him? I told him
So, you actually have the right to be in
Anger, okay? So anger is
adapted, but it's the behavior that
is unsuitable. And so I did
I turned around and pretended to leave.
Right away, the guys were
extremely uncomfortable. They said, "Oh no,
"We're sorry, sorry." And within an hour,
I got everything I wanted. Hm.
Because, once again, I dissociated
the emotion which is always legitimate of
behavior that is not all the time.
And that's why when I have to manage
someone, in this case, often I
I can tell them that. You see, Mathieu,
Once again, we don't know each other, I
I'm not in your shoes. And failing that
I understand what you can tell me, I
I can only imagine it, and even then... All right
? So that's why when you tell me that
You're angry, again, you have
reasons in this case which are
certainly legitimate. Now look, you
Grab the cap, there you go, generation
Socially, you're balancing the scales, I'm
asks if this is the most
adapted.
And so you see, in fact, I recognize
Your emotion, but that's it.
the instance that I do not recognize.
That's exceptional, what you just did.
say. I love this approach, but
I'm having trouble getting back into it.
It's dissociation or the
reassociation somewhere of the emotion
and of reality and what you can do.
Because emotion,
We can't really say anything, whatever it may be
It's happening, you see. And that's still
often provide a basis for negotiations.
It is
uh
Marwan, what you just told me,
It really touches me deeply.
Me, and honestly, I can't
accept it. It's very difficult. I
So, as you say, you can...
He said you shouldn't say you understand. I can
I can imagine what led you to me
saying that but
Actually, it hurt me a lot. And
So you can't say no to that.
You didn't get hurt. Well, actually I'll tell you
I told you that you're not at home, you're not
within me. So. And conversely in
Negotiation, when you get to that point,
often you're a bit, uh, and especially I
found in human resources at a
At the moment, I'd say, uh, but Marwan, OK, I
I hear, I can, I can't, you
You see, every time, I want to say
I understand, but I can imagine what
led you to this. However, and this is
That's often the case.
well, what happens to you at home, what
something happens to you in your relationship, which
You arrive in I don't know what,
It affects your work to a certain extent.
certain point. And now it's more
My problem is, I can't finally...
supporter, in quotation marks. You see this
What do I mean? The more we arrive
beyond the professional sphere, you see.
And that's always the "so, one thing"
which I am thinking about particularly
Latins and perhaps particularly in
In France, at least, we mix everything up in
One jump and they tell you, there you go, there you go!
So, figure it out yourself, and then my children, you
I know they slept badly and then I have
two more right now at night it's
complicated
Not my problem, anyway. You see, I have
I need you to see you're here, there are
Things to do: do your job, what else? You see
We agree. OK, agreed. Yeah
Yeah, and that's not true, but I love his
that's the story with the shaker. That's exactly it
That. That's why you're looking to have
teams, once again, we have, I
I often tell them, we all have our
everyday problems. What is
The important thing is not to import them.
Back to work again, because if
Each person recounts what they have experienced.
night, or her divorce, or something like that
things, even though I am someone who
deeply empathetic, we are
All right. The risk is that the
empathetic professional relationship.
I'm always there for my
teams. There you have it, they know that they
They can count on me. And I have
One of my assistants told me that.
She told me, "Maan, you see, if you have to
calling me at 4 a.m. to bury a
Corpse, you know I'll come and I
"I won't ask you any questions." And the
Worse, she actually believes it. And I
thinks there is this and and another one
Sometimes, I think there's this link which is
unwavering. So, perhaps he will be
obviously defective afterwards, but
In fact, we are a small company.
You see, there are about thirty of us and I
I think we're managing to preserve that quite well.
