[Applause]
I'm delighted to be hosting Dr. Steve
Wagger today who is a good friend and
long-term professional colleague over
the last 25 years. Throughout his
career, Steve has worked on a range of
financial, governmental,
non-governmental, and academic
institutions on international
sustainable finance issues. He is the
chief sustainable finance advisor at
Aviva investors where he's worked for
the last 18 years. He founded its global
responsible investment team as well as
its sustainable finance center for
excellence with the aim of transforming
capital markets so that they become more
sustainable. He also co-founded the
corporate human rights benchmark, the
world benchmark alliance and the UN
sustainable stock exchange initiative.
He's also a member of uh he is also a
member of a board of trustees at
WWFUK which is where I first met him.
Steve is also a visiting professor of
sustainable finance at the University of
Surrey, an honorary senior visiting
fellow at the University of Londonbased
business school, University of London,
and a senior associate at the University
of Cambridge Institute for
Sustainable Sustainability Leadership.
Steve has advised the UK government, the
European Commission, the G20, the
Sustainable Stability Board, the OECB,
and the UN on the creation of
sustainable capital markets. He is
recognized amongst the most influential
European
finance by financial news in 2024.
So, as you can see, Steve has a huge
amount of credibility and a huge amount
of experience. But I wanted to take you
back to the start of your personal
journey, Steve, and you've been a
pioneer in sustainable investment for
around 25 years. What initially drew you
into this space, and what have you seen?
How have you seen attitudes evolve since
you first started? It's wonderful to be
here with you. Thank you to you and to
the CFA. Um, I think we first met in
1997 actually. So, we go back a long
way. Thank you very much for for
referring to that. And you were part of
what drew me actually. You will remember
Tessa Tenant and who I think inspired us
both. And Tessa, the the great leader of
the global care team. I think she was
the person who deserves the most credit
for the establishment of the sustainable
finance industry as it now is, but
certainly community as it was in the
90s. uh and Tessa directly challenged me
in no uncertain terms to to if I cared
about finance and sustainability and the
long-term sustainability of both
survival of both that I should um
explore my interests in uh in finance
which as a child of the 80s obviously
you couldn't live in London and and not
be influenced by what was going on in
the if you like the Thatcher era of uh
of of London finance and simultaneously
we had James Hansen as the chief
scientist of NASA presenting to the
Senate in the US talking about how NASA
was beginning to realize that the
climate was changing. So there was this
really interesting contrast and that's
what drew me in terms of how the values
have evolved in terms of how the norms
have shifted as some might say. I think
it's fair to say that it started in the
UK at least as an industry that was
focused on negative screening perhaps
based on some charities and church views
of ethical investing and quickly moved
to being more about engagement. How do
you use the rights of share ownership to
improve better performance on a range of
issues? I think then maybe sort of 20
years ago we moved into the the phase
around integration. Sarah, what what
investment insights could you discern
from sustainability issues that could
contribute to alpha? And I think that
really um was an inflection point in how
sustainable finance started to take off.
And then in recent years, I'd say
probably the last five, we've seen a
move from the micro, engaging with
individual companies, analyzing
individual securities to the macro where
financial actors are realizing that they
operate within a system and their
portfolios themselves will suffer as the
extent to which the system itself is
suffering. And we I'm sure we'll talk
about that more. But so from from
negative screening to engagement to
integration and then from the micro to
the macro, that's how I would say things
have changed. So Aviva Investors has
long been seen as a leader in
responsible investing. Can you share
some of the key lessons that you've
learned in terms of embedding
sustainability into what is a large
complex global insurance and asset
management business? Obviously you're
speaking from the investors perspective
but um had to navigate all of those
issues on that journey. That's kind of
you Paul. Thank you. I I joined the Viva
Investors in 2006 and in 2001 someone we
both know Cla Brookke changed the voting
policy of what was then called Moley
Asset Management the pre the forerunner
to Aviva Investors that we rebranded in
around about 08.
um she factored she changed the voting
policy so that sustainability issues
would be considered in the way votes
were cast. So uh absolutely this is a u
a big journey. It's a long journey. Uh
one of the lessons that we've learned is
that actually delivering that voting
policy required significant resources.
At the time, none of the proxy voting
agencies provided actually a service
that looked
to our companies disclosing material
sustainability issues. Should that be
therefore voted in favor of the
reporting accounts? So that was that was
some you finding out just how big a task
that is. We do over 70,000 votes a year
across our listed equity portfolio. So
that's that's a ma major challenge. So
that that was one. I say a second would
be that data just having access to data
doesn't mean the performance on a
sustainability issue is actually
material over investment time horizons.
The data might be interesting to other
stakeholders but not actually hit the
cash flows of the company in which case
in my view that means it's not material
to your target price and the present
value of the firm. So just simple
disclosure doesn't mean the data is
material. You need to have a view on why
and how materiality happens. A third
lesson is that data is variable
globally. It's difficult to get a
comprehensive data set even still now uh
for all sectors uh of the economy in a
globally fair comparison format. So that
that's that's a huge journey has been
underway over the last 25 years. Big
gaps closed but it's still not finished.
It has taken us a few hundred years to
get to where we are on financial rec
reporting. So that shouldn't be a
surprise. A fourth lesson would be it's
really important to have a catalyst over
an investment time horizon that you can
see coming, you can predict that will
then change the rest of the asset
management industry's view on that
security. Um why does this
sustainability that you think should be
material that isn't yet in the price,
when would it become price sensitive?
When will it become something that you
should factor in? And if you can't see
that catalyst over investment time
horizons, then you it's not something
you should factor in today cuz it's an
externality. And that brings me to the
fifth
lesson. For an externality to be
relevant to a business, it has to be
internalized.
And whilst some stakeholder communities
would like fund managers to just factor
in what they would call the full cost of
the company, the environmental and
social costs, unless those costs are
actually priced, then it is irrelevant
to the way discount cash flows work. So
the way that externalities need to be
internalized isn't simply by us
imagining a figure and calibrating what
it might cost, but is for government to
then internalize the externality. And
the way they do that, sorry to use this
economic jargon, but it's basically
making sure the polluter pays. The way
they do that is through a tax, a
subsidy, maybe some kind of a trading
scheme like the EU emissions trading
scheme, the ETSs, or might be a standard
or regulation. So there's a handful of
lessons. There are plenty of others
including just how volatile the industry
is. But it it's been an amazing journey
working in it over the last 25 years in
byside fund management. Moving a little
bit to the role of insurance companies
in advancing sustainability. I know
you're talking from the perspective of
the investment group and the asset
management group, but clearly you're
looking um on investments for the
insurance group as well. And how how are
insurers generally looking to manage
risk given the long investment time
horizon and how's climate change
altering that risk landscape for an
insurer like Aviva uh and where does
that create opportunities or risks? So
let let's just think for a second about
that time horizon that you've referred
to at the top of your question. So we
were formed as the handinhand insurance
company in
1696. So been around for over three
centuries. So that's obviously
historically a a particularly long-term
time horizon. Um going forwards, we're
running money for individuals who will
be putting it away for their pension.
They might not be needing that pension
to be paying out for many decades, in
some cases maybe four or five. So they
will have very long time horizons. And
then as a business, the parent company
is looking to run money in perpetuity.
going forwards we hope to continue to
exist indefinitely. So we have a
fiduciary duty to present shareholders
as well as future shareholders or future
members as it is coined in in company
law. So we have a very long time horizon
and that's reflected in both the way we
analyze securities as well as the time
horizons of the investments that we're
backing particularly the real assets the
infrastructure projects. So those kinds
of time horizons mean that if you're not
looking at long-term sustainability
issues, you're mispricing securities. So
this is where where climate change comes
in. As as you put it in your question,
it's altering the risk landscape uh for
everybody, not just us. Um it's bringing
in transition risk, individual
securities, sometimes countries. As the
global economy moves to deliver the
Paris agreement, then it is inevitable
that at a certain point the oil and gas
industry will be in a sunset
environment. And whilst we will need the
oil, the gas to continue to be used for
many many decades. It will be used
marginally less incrementally as
renewable energy steps in and and closes
that gap. We're also going to need
carbon capture and storage at scale and
some would contend at a scale that's
almost impossible, but we we would we're
nevertheless going to need to invest and
back it at scale. So, we got the
transition risk, the risk of moving too
fast perhaps away from that sector.
Might that lead to a rapid right price
correction? The FSB, the financial
stability board talks about that as a
Minsky moment, a rapid price correction.
So there's one there, transition risk.
Second risk would be physical risk. Um
that's of course the risk of the the
real environment, the the flood, the
fire, the droughts. What would that do
to the individual securities that we're
backing which might require fresh water?
It might require uh all sorts of supply
chains to be intact that could be um
destroyed. Um and the physical risk
isn't just um uh in itself a risk that
we need to be contending with and
modeling. It gets extremely complicated
when you look at the second and third
order factors of of that physical risk.
One of which would be migration. And
there are some forecasts of the level of
migration that we'll see as a
consequence of the physical risk. Um
because and the physical risk of some
will be that the human body won't be
able to actually live in certain
environments. um because they'll be too
hot and humid for the body to cope.
You'll you'll have hypothermia and they
will the body might shut down and
obviously air conditioning will correct
that. But for many people even at if we
hit 3° by the end of the the century is
is often the prediction. 3° of change
over the industrial average pre the
industrial revolution the global
average. If we hit 3 degrees, we're
likely to see, we're told, 74% of the
world's population not being able to
live where they do today without
adaptation, without air con because the
midday, midsummer temperature will be
hotter than the body can cope with for
20 days of the year now at least. So
that is going to cause geopolitical
issues which to be blunt, the vast
majority are not yet factoring into
their risk assessments because they're
so complicated. Even central banks are
assuming that away. So that is a
incredibly challenging risk environment
to be running money in particularly as
we need to be ensuring for the
sustainability of our business. We have
a fiduciary duty to shareholders and a
fiduciary duty to policy holders to
consider these issues. So it's big stuff
Paul as you well know. So your assertion
would be that because obviously a lot of
people have referenced Minsky moments or
stranded assets that generally investors
are not able or fully pricing this into
markets at the moment and there there is
a gap between trying to understand the
complexity of the multiple
uh uh uh outcomes as a result of sort of
climate change um on markets. So, so you
generally believe that um there is that
gap at the moment. That's a an
absolutely fair characterization of my
view. Can I expand on that a little?
Would you like me to explain why
discount cash flow
analysis does exactly what you've just
said? The challenge comes back often
that um everything you say makes
complete sense but then the question is
why why are markets not factoring this
into the price at the moment given if
you believe in the sort of efficient
market theory as the CFA well knows
discount cash flow is a model that that
originated in the 60s in the Chicago
business school and it's obviously
taught to all analysts managers whether
they're on the buy side in fund managers
or whether they're on the sell side in
investment banks and it's the basis upon
which everyone models securities and
comes up with the present value. And if
you're thinking about a listed equity
the way it would be conventionally done,
you look back over as many years as you
can with the data in terms of cost line,
earnings line, what what a margins
looking like. You look at the current
price and then you project
forwards maybe probably in fact three
years maybe five years with some
granular detail you know in as much
detail as you can. What is this security
likely to do? Cash flows, earnings in
the next 3 to 5 years. And then of
course you discount those years by a by
a discount rate. And then for the rest
of the duration that that security is
likely to ex exist, you then model it
with a terminal value which in most
cases can be well over half of the value
the present value of the security. So I
know this is a technical audience. I'm
able to make these technical points, but
let's just expand on your point around
climate change and sustainability and
why discount cash flow ignores these
these long-term transition risks
physically physical risks and
geopolitical risks. Well, first of all,
as I said, the modeling time horizon is
normally 3 years and can often be five
at best, but then you revert to a mean
growth rate of let's say it's 2% at
infinitum. So the physical risks of
climate change because they are only
really acute in the second half of the
century and get really really
challenging north of 2070 and 80 in a
3°ree environment potentially
existentially challenging for certain
sectors like insurance. We need to
actually recognize that a DCF model a
discount cash flow model is ignoring the
worst physical risks by looking only at
a three-year time horizon and then
fading to a mean growth rate. That's one
way it ignores these issues.
Second, as I touched on earlier in the
lessons that you asked me to share, if
the externality, if the cost of the
emissions isn't then back onto the cash
flows of the company, whilst society and
if you like global growth will suffer as
a consequence of the emissions unless
the company is paying for the cleanup or
the capturing or the there's a trading
scheme with the permit or there's a tax
or some kind of other intervention.
Unless it comes back and hits the cash
flows, then it's an externality. So it's
it's has to be ignored in your present
value. So there's the second way. And
then the third value, the third way it's
ignored is in the terminal value because
in many many cases but by no means all
securities they're
um assumed to exist forever and grow at
a mean growth rate of say as I say two
2% global growth rate and that is a
contestable assumption in the presence
of extreme climate change which is
currently what is the forecast from MSCI
3 degrees of change is where we're
heading. So, it's the time horizon
problem. And as Mark Carney put it,
there is a tragedy of horizons where
you've got this impact horizon of
multiple decades, perhaps centuries that
is
potentially extremely severe versus
modeling horizons versus business
planning horizons versus the time
horizons of politicians and and I could
carry on. So this tragedy of horizon
exists formally in all discount cash
flow analyses and it is it's it's the
heart of the problem. How you change
that is a very difficult challenge but
it is the challenge that we need to
confront and I and I think it's through
governments internalizing the
externalities and investors showing
where the markets are failing and how
that in turn is going to harm economic
growth and also clients future returns
and and I would contend that we have a
fiduciary duty to do that and I would al
also argue that those of us in Europe
it's part of our duty to help maintain
the structural integrity of markets to
point to regulators where these issues
are failing. So, sorry for the long
answer, Paul, but very complicated. I'm
very pleased to be able to talk about
these topics with a technical audience
like this. A difficult question to throw
at you. And I mean, from a even a most
simple perspective, this this was driven
home to me. I I I studied for our own uh
climate risk valuation and investment
course and just in there was a case
study around a Chilean uh producer of
Alaminian and trying to look at a
forward-looking valuation. Now for that
this is going to be quite easy. But when
when you look at the uncertainty around
the climate science, the uncertainty
around the impact, the uncertainty
around rainfall which is was the key
driver here because the the the huge
amount of water needed in the aluminium
production. But then how we could
potentially introduce increased
efficiency in water usage but also the
pollution of the water on the population
and probably increase regulations.
trying to factor all that in had a huge
swing in potential outcomes of what was
going to happen. So throwing such a
difficult question at you was perhaps a
little bit unfair but it was more to
make the point really of the challenges
around this and why markets are not as
efficient as perhaps people may may
consider. I'm I'm now going to move to
perhaps one of your favorite topics and
an area you've been very passionate
around around stewardship and micro
stewardship versus macro stewardship and
how has the understanding and practice
of stewardship developed over your
career. So let's build from the previous
question to this one. And one of the
ways that it's evolved is that
people in most of the really advanced
managers now recognize that integrating
the sustainability issue into your
model.
um may lead to a result that is as a
null result if you like that is
immaterial or in some cases it's
actually negatively material for the
company to respond and that that
indicates a diff not a market
inefficiency that we can exploit to
generate
alpha. It's a market
failure which is which in the economic
jargon means that the current structure
of markets, the current free market um
approach has led to a suboptimal outcome
for society. So there's a really
important difference to market
inefficiency that active managers are
paid to to to find and search for and
put these in a as a pricing advantage in
the way that we run securities versus a
market failure which means that the
wrong outcome if you like from a say
climate perspective. It needn't just be
climate but the wrong outcome is being
delivered for society overall from the
current structure of markets. So
bringing it back to the practice of
stewardship as you've asked me to for
for the best part you know for the vast
majority of the '9s and 2000 probably up
until about 2015 most engagement that I
was aware of and indeed conducted myself
was from an asset manager asset owner to
the companies that were listed and used
the votes and the opportunities that
were offered from the rights of show
ownership. uh and indeed the obligations
in in furtherance of things like the
stewardship code as we had in the UK and
was then replicated in other
jurisdictions. So the moving away from
just engaging with the companies because
if it's a market failure they can't
correct it themselves. In fact if they
did it if they did correct and do the
right thing if you want to think of that
from a long-term sustainability
perspective it could harm short-term
returns for that company for that
sector. that that isn't there's no point
engaging with companies in the presence
of market failure. You have to engage
with governments and the broader system
to ensure that the right incentive
structure is set so that it rewards if
you like the transition towards a lower
carbon economy and at the moment that
isn't the case. So having an
understanding of how to engage with the
system and engage with say politicians
and policy makers. I we define macro
stewardship on sustainability issues
formally as financial institutions
actively engaging government policy
makers non-governmental organizations
academics and other key influencers to
correct material market failures on
sustainability issues. So if you like
our lens has got much wider and our
ambition has had to raise as it's become
clearer and clearer that some of these
sustainability issues could harm
long-term growth so significantly that
it could harm the structural integrity
of markets itself. So that that's a bit
about what macro stewardship is, how it
differs from micro and how it bridges
from discount cash flow and market
inefficiency to different concepts of
market failure and how one goes about
doing that and starts to unpick the role
of government of investors in
encouraging governments in making those
corrections. Thank you for explaining a
little bit around the difference between
sort of macro micro which is a a concept
that not everybody will be um familiar
with. And moving on to how are the
stewardship priorities for asset owners
um being felt with asset managers and
big asset managers like um Aviva
Investors. There's been a really
interesting I I'd say it it in some ways
it lags the leading asset owners and in
some cases they're beginning to lead.
the investment consultants I'm going to
point to in addressing how the
stewardship priorities are shifting and
along the same lines as I've been
describing the the best and the biggest
investment consultants
um and not always the same have been
factoring in the fund manager's
performance in relation to macro
stewardship or others call it systemic
engagement it amounts to the same
um in the way they then advise clients
where to allocate money. Um it isn't a
routine part of all requests for
proposals or requests for interest and
um due diligence questionnaires yet.
It's not a routine part, but I'm sure
you will remember too, Paul, how the
principles for responsible investment in
2006 over the subsequent three years led
to th those principles being embedded in
almost
all the requests for proposals and due
diligence questionnaires that that we
were getting. Um and I and I I would
forecast the same happening here that
the th those the leading asset owners
and their advisers are now
recognizing and the last few years have
really brought this home that the market
structure is rewarding
uh if you like no transition. And that
means that the long-term risks of of
climate change are not being corrected.
And that means that there's such a scale
of market failure. It's in our interests
to to seek to correct it globally. And
therefore, we have a role to play. It's
obviously not for us to correct the
failure, but we have a role to play in
informing that debate. So that's how I'd
say the stewardship priorities of asset
owners are being felt by us. There
there's an evolution. They too are
getting bigger picture, longer term, and
more visionary. I want to move a little
bit on to public policy and advocacy and
maybe you can also talk through a little
bit as to why Aviva investors has been
so actively engaged in public policy and
advocacy around sustainability and
climate action. um because it it is an
area where vapor investors has been
pioneering and not not everybody all
managers focus on this area and and then
the sort of secondary question around
that as to what would you like to see as
an outcome from that globally or
specifically in the UK where we've got
obviously uh either investors have such
a strong footprint and what what would
you see as a significant advance around
sustainable investing practices. There
are three driving forces that I'll point
to that I've touched on a bit already in
this little podcast. And the the first
would be the financial argument, which
is I believe and there is very good
evidence to suggest that the current
structure of markets is failing to such
an extent that it will come back to harm
the market itself and therefore
long-term client returns. And given that
one of our clients is our parent
company, our biggest client of course is
our parent company which is running
assets in perpetuity, issues like
climate change and their ramifications
for economic growth and long-term
performance are absolutely material and
we need to be considering them in the
way that we run money today across all
asset classes. It it it applies it will
harm well it will affect all asset
classes all sectors all geographies in
different ways and we need to have a
view financially on it. That's the the
financial case. Legally I believe we
have a fiduciary duty not just to those
policy holders and and clients but also
to shareholders. I mentioned that
earlier uh not just the existing members
of the business but future members of
the business um where these issues are
definitely going to be more and more
material to valuation as time elapses.
Um and then I said that in the European
Union we have a duty to help regulators
maintain the integrity of markets. That
market integrity duty I believe extends
to helping them understand where the
markets are failing from a
sustainability perspective and
highlighting sharing if you like our
analysis so that they can then correct
them so that our portfolios can then
transition. So those are if you like
there's a financial there's a a
self-interested case as well as a
fiduciary case to our shareholders and
our our clients and then there's this
long-term market integrity duty. So
that's our interpretation. And if you
want to think of it as macro stewardship
or public policy advocacy, I I think
there are there are very significant
similarities. Perhaps the driving force
though in our case is making sure that
the assets that we own have this genuine
long-term sustainability. It's it's not
just if you like about the interests of
our own business. It's all businesses
that we help allocate capital to. So
that gives you a bit of a flavor of of
why in in terms of the big change in the
outcome that we've been arguing for, our
group chief executive co-chair the
transmission plan task force for a
number of years. I was on the task force
for climate related financial
disclosure, the
TCFD. Um, and there was slight overlap
in those, but I've been on TCFD since
2015 and man Blanc served uh for I think
it was three years on the transition
plan task force. We envisage a ecosystem
of transition planning and governance
whereby governments are learning from
companies and investors about where the
markets are failing and how they could
be corrected through the transition plan
and then ideally indicating to the
market how those corrections will come.
Uh and it could be through the
nationally determined contributions at
the uh conference of parties for the UN
framework convention on climate change.
You will know Paul that there is a
nationally determined contribution
that's a requirement of all the member
states that signed the Paris agreement
to disclose that and you'll remember
that this idea is also something that
Tessa herself Tessa tenant was
recommending a dozen years ago um just
after the Paris agreement was struck so
that would have been 2016 I think. So
this is um this big stuff. U the the
ecosystem of transition planning I think
would be the case for it needs to be
made too. And I remember the Stern
review in 2006 on the economic impacts
of climate change. I think it's time to
revisit and extend that analysis and
look to what does the financial system
look like at a threederee
scenario? Where would it be struggling?
How might you correct for that? and uh
what would sensible corrections look
like today that help ensure long-term
sustainability of markets. So those are
a couple of contemporary examples of
outcomes that we've been advocating for
and obviously I can talk for a lot
longer about them but now's not the
time. I'm going to lead you give you a
very much a leading question now. I I
sort of know your answer but uh it's
probably a second part of it that is uh
more meaningful and do you believe
policy mode globally are moving quick
enough on sustainability issues
particularly climate and if not what
more can the financial sector do to
accelerate effective public policym as
you obviously know I don't believe
policy makers are moving quickly enough
on sustainability issues including
climate particularly climate in fact
I've been going to the conference of
parties of the European framework
convention on climate change the COP
since COP 6 and I haven't been to all of
them at all but I haven't seen many
investors turning up to any of them
until the last 5 years and it's great
that investors are going now and it
would be even better if it wasn't just
being treated as a trade fair and a
networking opportunity but actually
being treated as an important
opportunity to help negotiate different
outcomes in the global economic system
which is effectively what it represents.
It's not just that because the UN isn't
an economic regulator per se, but it can
influence them. And so I think one of
the things that the financial sector can
do to accelerate effective public
policym is turn up at them at the
meetings that matter. Whether it's a G7
or a G20 if one gets invited, and it's
amazing when that happens, but it does.
uh whether it's helping the OECD
understand the scale of the issues and
what could be done by their member
states, whether it's attending the UN
General Assembly or the New York Climate
Week or the London Climate Week, but
being part of the debate and and
highlighting to those that can correct
the market failure, how they might do
that as well as where the markets are
continuing to fail. That is an
absolutely that's a fundamental job in
my mind of of the investment market, the
investment industry because it is in our
interests very long term that this gets
corrected. Uh and we're beginning to see
that happen much more. So I think
there's an opportunity and an interest
to help support policy makers many of
whom recognize the validity of what
we've been discussing but are held back
because of the time horizons around
which they themselves are working. uh
and and that is something that very
long-term investors can help to correct
and clearly financial incentives are
what drive markets and the whole system
and what tools do you think policy
makers have to achieve that and what's
the role of investors in supporting them
I touched on it at the very outset of
the conversation the tools that policy
makers have which are all about making
the polluter pay or internalizing the
externality one of which is a fiscal
intervention a tax or a subst
to make the polluter pay or to to
subsidize the good outcome you wish to
see to to help transition cost of
capital and move capital in the right
direction further forwards. Second
intervention would be a trading scheme
where you have tradable permits. Talked
about the EU emissions trading scheme.
There are others in many countries and
in subsets of countries too around the
world. The the kind of global
harmonization of those trading schemes
is beginning to happen but is a really
difficult challenge. It's all around
article six of the conference of parties
of the human fabric convention of
climate change. So this is this is part
of the Paris agreement actually. So
that's happening. A third way is a
standard or a regulation. And then a
fourth would be a consumer information
device. So disclosure enabling for
example somebody to know the emissions
of their bridge or or their how
efficient the car is or how efficient
their home home is. These are enabling
different consumer purchasing behavior.
And to the extent that those things then
hit the cash flows over a three-year
time horizon, it will then change the
present value of the security and then
lead to more investors putting even more
capital into those securities that
should that need the capital to finance
their growth so they can support the
transition. So it's not just enough to
have the intervention. It needs to be
material over investment time horizons.
And that's the role investors play in
supporting policy makers. I think
pointing to where the market failure
correction is either causing unintended
outcomes that are even against the
transition which is happening in in more
cases than you can imagine um or or
pointing to specific recommendations and
a colleague of mine a gentleman called
Nick Mo worked with another colleague
Sophie English to produce a document
called boosting lowcarbon investment in
the UK and that goes through a number of
sectors that are what's called hard to
abate the
challenging carbon intensive sectors and
pre presents to uh policy makers a
policy road map sector by sector about
how they might go about internalizing
the externality now over investment time
horizons. So they're beginning to secure
the capital in markets and as many of us
know I know you know this Paul but we
need to mobilize 4 to 6 trillion a year
to deliver the Paris agreement. Uh and
whilst that is an enormous sum of money
there's arguably roughly 500 trillion in
the system. So it is deliverable but
only if you make it
pay only if the incentive structure is
correct. So, another long answer, Paul.
I'm sorry, but at least it's
comprehensive. Thank you, Steve. It's
been fantastic as always um talking with
you and uh always always an inspiration
to to listen to you. Thank you. Thank
you, Paul. It's been an absolute honor
and a pleasure. I I look forward to
taking it forward together over the
years ahead. Great. Thank you.
[Music]
[Applause]
