In today's video, I'm going to show you
guys how to turn Claude code into a
master designer and a strategist. To do
this, we're going to be connecting
Mobbin using an MCP. And honestly, this
workflow is so incredibly powerful, you
guys are going to want to see this.
>> [music]
>> Okay, so if you guys aren't familiar
with Mobbin, Mobbin is one of, if not
the biggest collection of UIs from
across the internet, across all the
biggest companies out there. So, you can
see here all the different apps. We have
like booking.com, Duolingo, Disney Plus,
Tesla. And if we click into one of
these, you can see that it's not got
just one, but it's got all sorts of
different screens. It's got everything
from UI elements all the way down to
certain flows within the app. It's very,
very comprehensive, and I think it's one
of the best ways to see what other
companies are doing out there, see what
works. So, if we go up here, they've got
everything from like iOS apps. They've
also got web apps, and then they've also
just got websites as well, like landing
pages. But, all the stuff on here is
kind of the top of the top, and these
are generally just high-performing
websites, so a great source of
inspiration. So, let's just say a client
comes to you and they need a new app
design. You write down everything they
need for their MVP, and you get an idea
of how you're going to bring this all
together. Generally, for me, I'll jump
into similar sort of apps, things that
are doing similar sort of things. How do
they do it? What works? What doesn't?
And that's where Mobbin is incredibly
powerful cuz you can search by like
categories. Well, let's just say it's a
fitness app. Well, you could look at
something like Tonal, and you can get a
lot of inspiration. But, further than
that, like what I said, the flows are
where they can be really powerful. Cuz
your app itself might differ in design,
but the flows from one fitness app to
the other probably be kind of similar.
So, here we can see the entire
onboarding flow for this app. You can go
into each of these and just copy it, and
then within Figma, we can just start
pasting these in to build out a mood
board. Now, there's a much better way of
doing this using Mobbin's MCP, and I'll
show you guys how to connect it. So, if
we head to mobbin.com/mcp,
now installing it is quite easy. So, you
can see here the setup. So, first you
need a paid plan to Mobbin, and then you
can pick your tool. So, we're going to
use Claude Code in this video, but you
can also connect it to Cursor, Codex, V
0, or other. So, to install this, we
will open Claude here, and we'll go down
here to customize, and then we'll go to
connectors. If we click on this plus
icon, we'll do add custom connector, and
then here we want to type Mobbin, and
then for the server URL, we want to use
this one here, api.mobbin.com/
MCP, and then we'll add this. You can
see here it's not connected yet, so
we'll click connect, and then we will
just authenticate this just like this.
So, now we've got it all connected. We
could say, "Connect the Mobbin MCP and
tell me all the things I can use it
for." Here is what the Mobbin MCP lets
you do. So, it can help you find UI
patterns. So, you could tell it, for
example, "Find me some fitness
onboarding flows." You can compare
designs across different apps, gather
references for a feature we're
designing. This is like what we already
did here, but we can get this to do this
automatically for us, and even bring it
into a Figma file. Target specific
platform to insert, get inline previews.
We've essentially given Claude Code
superpowers cuz it now has access to
Mobbin's selection of over 600,000 of
the world's best UIs. So, we're going to
give it this prompt here. "I'm working
on a fitness app. Generate me a Figma
file with 10 different examples of
different apps from Mobbin and their
initial sign-up screen. Make me a mood
board." Just so you know as well, I also
have Figma connected via the MCP, so
this allows it to make a Figma file and
connect it with Figma, too. If you
didn't have Figma connected, well, you
could see that it would just pull it
into the chat anyway, but we're going to
get this to bring it over for us
directly into Figma. And this is what
it's given us. So, these are all the
different screens that we've gotten from
Mobbin. We allowed Claude Code to be
able to search Mobbin's entire library
to create this file for us
automatically. So, as a source of
inspiration, automating this whole
entire process is incredibly useful. So,
So, meant that we could save a lot of
time instead of having to go into each
of these and then copying and pasting
these over at Figma ourselves. So, let's
say this to Claude code, can you tell me
what seems to work best between all of
these and why? We're going to get Claude
code to think like a designer here. Are
there any other non-fitness apps on
Mobbin that could be additional source
of inspiration for this screen? Maybe we
need some inspiration from one or two
non-fitness apps that have a similar
sign-up screen. And let's grab some of
the welcome screen for non-fitness apps,
too. We're going to say, add this into
Figma with your feedback of what works
and what doesn't. Add your analysis and
organize accordingly. And then we now
have this generated as if by magic over
in Figma. It's given us detailed
feedback and its analysis of all these
different screens from Mobbin. So, you
can see down here Strava and Gymshark
and Peloton seem to have the best sort
of flow. And the feedback for Strava,
for example, is like best community
signal, real people, not models,
instantly tells you the app's social
DNA, orange CTA stays high contrast.
Now, I agree with all of that. Gymshark,
strong brand voice, confident caps in
the headline, cut out athletes, single
back call to action, no soft path for
hesitant users. You've got one button,
it's very clear what you should do.
Peloton is saying it's the best overall.
We've got a dark cinematic photo,
tight stack of three social sign-ins,
logo overlay, brand, product in one
frame, near zero friction. I wouldn't
necessarily say it's the best overall. I
think it's actually a little bit busy,
but it is good. Then further down here,
we have more of an analysis. The winning
pattern, show people, not mascots,
reduce friction without going cold. And
then here we have other non-fitness
references that are worth borrowing
things from. Restraint is the lesson.
This is showing you a very minimal
approach. Depending on what we're
building, this could be the best choice.
And then we have this one here, which is
showing just a kind of sense of urgency.
Now, we're going to say, generate me our
own concept for our own one now using
these examples and other common
practices from Mobbin. Also, use our
analysis of what works best use iPhone
16 frame. And this here is what it's
built us automatically based on all the
feedback of what we've gathered here
from Mobbin. Now, obviously, we haven't
given it any specific info about our
fitness app, what makes it different,
what it's supposed to do, who the
demographic is, but just as a source of
inspiration and getting a rough sort of
mock-up, it's already done all of these
things for us and this is a great
starting point because we know that the
flow of this is all tried and tested
with the biggest apps in the world. But
you can see that if we added like a
full-screen image to the back of this,
this would already start looking like
somewhat of a polished welcome screen.
So, that's one great way of connecting
Claude Code and Mobbin to be your design
partner, your strategist, to do a lot of
the research for you, collate that
information, bring it into the one
place, and then you as the designer is
to review it all and decide if you agree
with some of it or disagree with some of
it, but at the very least you've got a
lot of stuff in front of you and it's a
really useful starting point. Another
way you could use Mobbin's MCP with
Claude is to critique your designs. Now,
we're going to do this with a landing
page of my upcoming course, Future
Designer. We're going to send this to
Claude Code and we're going to get it to
review it. It's going to compare it with
other landing pages on Mobbin and give
us its feedback. So, it's going to roast
me essentially, but let's see what it
comes back with. So, this is the design
of the landing page here in Figma. We
are just going to export this and then
I'll pull this over into Claude Code.
Give me a detailed feedback on my course
landing page. Use comparisons from
Mobbin's library of landing pages. Find
me better examples for sections and
overall critique my design in line with
the premium designs that are on Mobbin.
All right, so here's when Claude Code
tells me that my design sucks. So, it's
pulled together some reference images
from Mobbin and here's its detailed
critique. The color system is cohesive
and on trend. The hero is undersized for
what it's trying to do. Currently, we're
sitting one tier below premium because
the layout proportions and pacing. Not
taste, the taste is good. Well, that's
that's fine. Then we've got detailed
feedback about each section. Hero, it's
talking mainly about the sizing and the
voicing, and you can see it's given us
some references here here on Mobbin. You
can see that their headline super bold,
and then this is super focused. We've
also got this one where it's talking
about maybe adding some color to our
headline. And then this one which is
mainly talking about just the actual
size of the headline, which this is huge
here. If anything, I think this is maybe
a little too big. Trailer video seems a
little disconnected. It's giving us this
reference here. Obviously, you can see
the trailer is a big part of this hero
here. It's not really what I wanted to
do for mine. Other example here for
this, well, it's probably like a very
high converting landing page, but
I think it's a little bit boring. But
honestly, all the feedback totally makes
sense. And honestly, being able to just
quickly click into these references and
see what it's talking about. So useful.
And it even asks me, "Want me to mock up
a revised hero in Figma as a
side-by-side comparison?" Which I'm not
going to do right now, but it's insane
that that is even an option. If you guys
are interested in trying out this
workflow for yourself, I highly
recommend it. There's a link in the
description so you could sign up to
Mobbin. If you want to become a better
AI assisted designer, then sign up to my
upcoming course, and I will catch you
guys soon with another video.
Bye.
