What does investmentled mean? Focus on
where we have an embedded expertise and
that's all the things we do inside of
Brookfield. But what we've not touched
on is it also has an implication to
leverage.
If you're focused on investing where you
have an information advantage and you
have an advantage from an operating
perspective and you can generate higher
returns, you don't need to use leverage
to generate your ROIs
and therefore dial your leverage down.
Most traditional insurance companies
operate at mid- teens leverage. Some of
them operate at 10 to 12. Some operate
as high as 20. We run our business at
six to eight times, seven, eight times
leverage. And that number will decrease
over time as we build up capital inside
the business. So we don't need to use
leverage to create returns. The returns
come from the investment side.
It also informs how we think of new
products on the insurance side. Really,
we're focused on lowrisk predictable
liabilities. It's why we sold off many
of the non-core lines that were in the
business in the first place.
And to put it in terms of just how we
think about it from a returns
perspective, you can see here what I was
getting at in terms of the the mix of
privates versus liquids,
the level of spread you can generate and
the leverage. And all of that drives to
maybe at certain times even a comparable
return to other insurance companies, but
with much less leverage. We view that as
being a much higher quality of earnings
stream coming out of our business
because lower leverage, same returns,
more durable cash flows, more
predictable liabilities.
And this has allowed us to actually
deliver what we've said we would deliver
five years ago.
All of our businesses are all of our
insurance businesses operate with an A
ratings. Two of our businesses got
ratings upgrades over the last three
years as we've been operating them and
building up capital.
We will generate over two billion of
distributable earnings next year from
zero 5 years ago.
We have maintained a greater than 15%
ROE since inception.
This is an important point because what
it means is every decision we make isn't
just about growth. We're not just trying
to grow AUum.
We're making decisions to prioritize
profitability over growth. And when you
do that, there's times where you will
scale back. And there's times we have
scaled back. We could have pushed the
envelope and actually distributed more
or written more annuities, but we are
very careful when we see rate movement
in the market.
We've been able to do this without
taking any third party capital in. This
is important because our capital at
Brookfield is permanent.
It's long-term in nature obviously and
therefore it's fully aligned with
policyh holders who sometimes own
products that will be with us for the
next 20 years. If we if we buy a pension
out of the pension markets today, we
could be paying somebody for the next 25
years. Having permanent capital backing
them ensures full alignment, ensures we
make decisions with policyh holders in
mind and that is a really important
long-term reputational matter for us as
the business grows and scales.
And then lastly,
we have been very focused on making sure
that we move beyond the US and grow in
markets where this phenomenon of aging
populations will offer further scale
opportunities.
