So, a bit over a year ago, on this very
YouTube channel, I made a video where I
got Claude to order me a pizza. I was
super excited about this at the time
because this was experimental, right?
The idea that these models, large
language models, multimodal models,
could actually control the computer that
you have and perform actions for you.
And I got it to order me a pizza. Now, a
lot's changed since [music] I made that
video. And in this video, I want to
bring us up to date with what we can do
because there are new products out there
and
I'm hungry again.
So, I've built myself another agent and
[music] and this also has browser use.
And so, I'm going to prompt it again to
order me a pizza. So, we're going to get
this pizza delivered. Hopefully, it's
going to go through all the way through
this automation flow and
>> [music]
>> actually order a pizza by using the
website. Okay, one of the things that
hasn't really changed over the last year
is the speed in which agents can use
these tools because of course, it has to
load web pages. We have to click things.
We have to wait for the website to do
something. So, we're going to leave that
be and we're going to come back and take
a look at it in a while. In the
meantime, let's look at what I built and
how I built it and look to see what's
changed over the last year.
In the first video I put together on
this subject, I gave Claude access to an
entire browser session. In fact, more
than that, I gave it access to
an entire monitor output of my actual
laptop, which is a super bad idea and I
said so at the time. This isn't a good
idea and we don't really want to do
that. Of course, anywhere near
production, we wouldn't do anything
remotely like that because we don't want
to give an agent access to that much
power and capability of being able to
open up my email client and sending
something to everybody in my contacts
list. Of course not. No. We need to
scope it down. So, what we need to do is
we need to have that browser inside of a
sandbox. Um and of course, most people
that were playing around with this at
the time would use a browser inside of a
Docker container and do just that. But,
how do we actually manage this at scale
if we want to have an agent that has
access to a browser, but we don't want
to have to put together a browser farm?
And that's what this video is about
because I've got here Amazon Bedrock
Agent Core. Now, you've heard me talking
about this before. You've heard my
colleagues talking about this before on
this very channel. Amazon Bedrock Agent
Core is a set of capabilities that you
can just pick and choose the ones you
want and build them into and use them
with your agentic workloads, your
agentic flow that you're building your
own agents. So, we've talked about
runtime and memory and these other
things. In this video, I want to talk
about the browser tool. So, if you have
a look inside of the Agent Core console
page here, um you can see all of those
things that I mentioned, so runtime and
memory and other things that you'll have
seen videos on. And if you want to see
more, subscribe to this channel, click
the bell notification because more are
coming. But, if I scroll down here,
you'll see in built-in tools, we have
browser. And that's what I'm using here.
So, if I click in on browser, this tells
you all about how it works. There really
isn't very much you have to do in the
console to get this working because if I
just scroll down, um you'll see in
browsers, I've got one. It's the Agent
Core browser tool. It's the default
instance. It's there for all of us
inside of our accounts. So, this means
that we can just actually hit the APIs
and start using this right now. Let's
talk about what those APIs are. Um so,
start browser session. So, we can call
this to say that we want to start a
session. It will then essentially spin
up a browser um session um and make that
available to us. We then get to go and
control that. So, if we call um get
browser session, you'll see as part of
the response parameters here, we
actually get these streams. And these
streams are web socket endpoints that we
can stream on automation protocol. It's
the Chrome DevTools protocol. I have it
written down there. Um it's not
something I'm an expert on, but that
protocol allows you to be able to
connect to a browser, in this case
Chrome or Chromium, and send commands to
it to get it to do certain things. Click
here, scroll here, but also get
information back, like get the source
code of the page, and also get
screenshots. So, that you can see what's
going on, or more importantly, so the
agent can see what's going on. So, with
this in place inside of Agent Core, um
with the browser tool, we can just go
and hit the API and spin up an
environment and just start to use it.
So, let's go and have a look at doing
just that. Here I've got my um IDE. I'm
not going to do any vibe coding right
now, so let's get rid of that. And
inside of here I've got some code, which
of course will be linked in the
description below. Um first of all,
let's take a look at this simple use
case here, where I've got my simple
browser agent. And you can see here some
code. I'm going to whiz through it and
then zone in on little bits and pieces
of this. But this is basically using
Strand's agents, so the Strand's agents
SDK. It's a free SDK, which is super
easy to be able to build really quite
powerful um agents and agentic
workloads. So, that's one I'm using
here. And it actually abstracts away
from me a lot of the complexity, if it
is complexity, of using that API that we
were looking at before, of getting the
actual browser instance and then
streaming to the web socket. You can
totally do that if you want, the
documentation's there, but the
integration with certain frameworks
already exists, and Strand's agents is
one of those, and I'll show you just how
simple it is to build it into your
agent. So, most of the code we're
looking at here is actually just the
Strand's agent and making it work. So,
you can see I've got a system prompt in
here. Um I've got an agent definition
here. But essentially, here's my agent.
Um it's got access to some tools, and
it's got that system prompt. It's that
tool which we are focusing on here. It's
the browser tool. So, it's actually
something that we uh imported up above,
where we imported uh from Strands tools
browser, we import the agent core
browser. And so, if we're looking here,
oh, no, went too far. If we look here,
um, I just literally have to call the
agent core browser. Now, because I'm
using the default one, which is already
created in my account, I don't need to
specify the name like that. I just tell
it the region that I want to use, and
that's the browser tool ready to go, and
I can give it to the agent. And that's
it. Everything else in here is actually
just about me interacting with this
agent. So, you can see this is just a
very, very basic command line interface
to this agent. So, let me go and create
a new terminal here, so we can just go
and run this. So, I'm just going to
change my directory to simple. Um, and
I've got this with UV, so if you've
downloaded this code, do a UV sync
before hand. Um, but I'm going to say UV
run
Python, and this is called uh browser
browser agent. So, if I run this, it
looks just like that one we ran just a
second to go that's working away in the
background trying to order me a pizza,
but this is a much simpler version of
it. Um, so, I can just interact with
this as an agent, but it has access to
that tool to be able to open up a
browser. So, if I say, "What is on um
example.com
today?" And I'm saying today because I
don't want it to know exactly what's on
there already. The some of these um
agents, some of these models are smart
enough. And you can see what it's done
here. It says it's immediately gone off
to use the browser tool. So, let's jump
back into the AWS console. Let's
navigate into this browser tool, and
then let's go down to sessions. And you
can see I've had a lot of sessions open
doing a lot of things, but let's click
on live session, view live session, and
you can actually see a stream coming
back from this browser that's hosted up
in the cloud. So, it's just taking a
while to load and there it is. And there
it is and it's opened up example.com
and it's showing us the example domain.
So, if I now go back to my agent, we
should see yeah, it's come back and said
based on my visit to example.com today,
here's what I could currently on the
site. And so, he can actually see this
website, right? It's got the title and
it's got the content and it can even see
that the link is on there as well. Now,
one of the things inside of this browser
view which I quite like is if I just
scroll up here, um I can actually take
control of the session. Um and this is
obviously something I can do in a
browser, but it's also something you can
do with the API cuz part of the stream
back from this um cloud-hosted browser
is that I can um get a stream of the
actual vision back of this actual
browser session and so I'd be able to
interact with it. So, I can say take
control of session here and this is just
showing me I can do it here and I can
navigate up. Um and yeah, I could go and
click on the on that link there. So, I
just clicked on the link and I'm
navigating around. And this is kind of
useful for passing control back to the
the user if you are doing a sort of
collaboration between an agent and a
user depending on what your use case
might be. And one of the reasons why you
might want to take control um is to be
able to log in. So, if we go back for a
second to browsers
um and scroll down, we can look at
profiles. So, if I click on profiles
here, you can see I've got a couple of
profiles. And what these are, these are
a new feature of Agent Core browser tool
which allows you to store session states
like cookies and the fact that you've
logged in inside of a browser. So, you
can connect together a profile with a
browser session and then when you come
back the next day, if it's one of those
websites which maintains your login,
then you will be logged in. But, you can
use that ability to be able to take
control to actually do the login so that
the username and password never actually
goes into the hands of the agent because
typically you wouldn't want to do that.
Now, this is quite new. So, let me just
go over to the code just for a second
and open up this other project which
I've called profile. And you'll see that
this is a bit more complex. There's a
bit more going on here. This is actually
the agent which I've got running at the
moment ordering me pizza. And so, you
can see that I've extended out the
browser tool to actually support
profiles. So, it's got the ability to be
able to go back and use the same profile
each time
and the profile name is set here inside
of this
default profile name here, user 123123.
If I go back to the console, you can see
that
profile name is just there. So, I've
been using this
and I did actually use this to log in to
the food ordering site beforehand so
that when the agent goes back to that
site, it can just go straight in and get
on with ordering stuff for me. Now,
hopefully in the near future, the actual
Strands agent's integration with browser
tool will do this automatically, but for
now because it's so new and I didn't
want to wait, I set about writing some
code that would help us out with this.
So, I've extended out that browser tool.
So, we have the profile browser.py is
the code I've got in here. You can
navigate through this and see how this
works and see a little bit more
information about I guess how the
standard tool currently works through
that.
But, I'm I'm calling this I'm importing
this. I've got a bit more of a system
prompt in here which is going to
basically
work through a couple of the kinks that
I've realized as I'm trying to use some
of these sites. Now, I'm pushing this to
the limits here and I'm saying don't
necessarily rely on the DOM of the
actual website itself. That might not be
very reliable because trying to execute
JavaScript sometimes doesn't work well,
especially if the website doesn't really
want to be automated. So, it's okay, you
can fall back to just taking screenshots
and clicking on things. It might be a
bit slower, but you can get there in the
end. These are the kinds of things I'm
explaining inside of that system prompt.
Um then some other things, and I need to
call this out before you go running this
code. So, one of the things that I've
got down here is I do explicitly load a
specific model that I want to use, and
I'm going to use the Claude Opus 4.6, so
the biggest and baddest model you can
find.
But in addition to that, I'm also
passing this extra header where I'm
opening up the 1 million token context.
So, this is huge, and it has the
capacity to cost a lot of money. So,
just be careful about this. Don't run it
if you don't need to. Just watch this
video many times and watch me running
it. Um this can get expensive. Now, one
of the reasons for this is because as
we're doing this agentic flow of
actually using a website, especially if
we're taking screenshots and shoving
that into the context, you know, one
screenshot is not one token, it's many
tokens. Other thing I've done in here,
um if we just look up here is when I'm
using the browser tool, and this is
something which is accessed through the
subclass that I've done, um is that you
can set the viewport size. So, you can
set the width and the height, um so that
you can I did that to try and constrain
the amount of information I'm pushing
through. I don't necessarily need a 1920
by 1080 picture, I can get away with
something a bit smaller. And those are
some of the customizations I've done to
this piece of code. And this is the code
that in the background here is ordering
me a pizza. So, maybe it's time to go
over and have a look and see how well
that's doing. And so, what we can see
here is as soon as I hit go, it said it
was using the tool called browser as far
as it was concerned. And now what we
know is that that's using agent core
browser tool. So if you look inside of
the console at that time, a browser
session had started and we can actually
watch along in the console as it's
ordering. So we can sort of see side by
side, we can see the code going and we
can see the use of the browser. Let's
speed up all the way through this
because it does take about 10 minutes to
order the pizza. There's a few things
going on here.
>> [music]
>> So it did manage to navigate through and
find me a pepperoni pizza, which is
great. Um I didn't specify what kind of
pizza, so pepperoni's just fine, I
suppose. And I also I noticed that it's
coping okay with these modal windows
which come up over the top of the main
site. It's navigating through all of
those. It's clicking the buttons and on
we flow.
And by the time we're getting towards
the end, there's actually a small
problem happening here. And that's that
the minimum order value hasn't been
reached. I guess just ordering one
pepperoni pizza to be delivered as far
away as I am, maybe it doesn't work. And
so we are a dollar and five cents away
from reaching that minimum order.
[music]
What's the agent going to do about this?
So the agent has actually spotted the
problem. It said it can see that there
is a dollar and five missing from the
order in order to make it eligible for
delivery. Um and it says, "Let me see if
there's a way to proceed."
And it's come up with the idea of of
going back to the store and seeing if we
can get a small drink or a dipping
sauce. That's awesome.
Okay, it's found dipping sauces on the
site for a dollar 50. It's It's decided
it needs to add that in order to
actually fulfill its destiny of ordering
this pizza. It adds it in and yes, the
order has been completed. It's been
placed. Hang tight.
Pizza's on its way.
>> [music]
>> And my pizza's been delivered
>> [laughter]
>> along with the the creamy garlic sauce
which was a nice touch. Okay, so there
you go.
If you enjoyed this video, then please
do give it a like and maybe consider
subscribing to this channel. Hit the
bell notification so that you get
notified when more videos drop just like
this. Maybe not quite like this, but a
little bit like this. All of the code
for everything that we've talked about,
of course, is linked in the description
below. Thank you so much for watching
and I will see you in another video
really soon.
