Well, good afternoon. I guess the only
bad news is unfortunately there's not
going to be a break that I think we had
planned at this moment. Uh but it's been
a pretty exciting day so far. We had
Bruce Flat, we had a fire drill and then
uh BBU just wowed us just now. So, we're
going to try and keep the momentum going
and welcome you to Brookville
Infrastructures portion of today's event
and the uh the theme for our
presentation is growth and more
specifically our view on our current
growth trajectory. So, I'm going to
begin uh by providing context for our
historical growth and where we think
we're headed. Essentially, what we're
going to describe is our inflection
point. My colleagues will then come up
and provide more details on our playbook
on how we're going to achieve that
growth.
So to set the stage uh not dissimilar to
what uh be um Anuj did I want to start
with uh what our mission is and a lot of
you would have heard this in prior years
but essentially it's to hone highly
contracted and regulated businesses that
generate long-term consistent growth
with minimal variability. And if we do
that well, you know, we should be able
to generate FFO growth of about 10% or
more annually. And this will lead to
growing distributions within our 5 to 9%
target range.
Now, to meet our goals, we're going to
execute a full cycle business strategy
that has three primary f pillars. The
first is we deploy capital at or above a
12 to 15% hurdle rate.
Second, we'll crystallize value through
our capital recycling plan. And third,
we'll maintain a strong financial
position to ensure that we always have
ample liquidity to take advantage of
opportunities that may arise.
So, this approach has delivered a
long-term track record of stable and
growing cash flow with FFO per unit
increasing at a compound annual rate of
14% since our inception.
This in turn has allowed us to increase
distributions for 16 straight years at a
compound rate of 9%.
Now, while we're proud of our long-term
record, we recognize that our share
price will reflect either current and
expected growth rates. So, it's a fair
question to ask, how have we done
lately?
So we thought we'd look at a more uh
recent time period. And so if we just
look at the past five years, we've still
delivered strong financial performance
across all our metrics. Absolute FFO has
grown about 13% uh peranom. Cash flow
per unit has increased 10% annually and
we've reduced our payout ratio by 11%
from 78% to 67%.
These are good results when you compare
them to our Canadian midstream and
utility peers that have generally grown
their cash flow per unit over the same
period by about 5%.
But it is still lower than a long-term
average of 14%.
And there's probably two macro reasons
that largely explain the difference.
The first headwind our business faced
was as a result of being an
international company was the tremendous
strength of the US dollar. From 2020 to
the beginning of this year, we saw the
US dollar strengthen approximately 15%
versus global currencies.
In terms of our results, if you adjusted
for the impact of FX, we would have
delivered a 12% FFO per unit growth
instead of the 10% annually.
The second headwind was higher borrowing
costs from the rising global interest
rates. As everyone knows, the world
transitioned from a decade of low
interest rates into a higher rate
environment at a very rapid pace. The
federal funds increased by 500 basis
points from the trough to the peak. And
similarly, the US 10-year Treasury rose
by a magnitude of about 400 basis
points. If you adjusted our results for
the impact of higher interest rates, our
FFO per unit would have increased by 2
to 3%. With some offsetting benefit
obviously from higher inflation in our
revenues. Now longer term, we are better
off having had the benefit of higher
inflation as that will continue to
compound in our results over the long
run. But in the short run, we were
negatively impacted.
Okay, so you're asking why am I telling
you all this? Well, first, the macro
environment has changed and our business
is better than ever. Today, we are at an
inflection point that we think will see
substantially higher growth rates in our
business than we've achieved in the last
5 years.
So, let's start with how the business
has evolved.
In the last 5 years, the embedded
organic growth in our business, which is
reflected in our capital backlog, has
grown 4x. This is important because our
organic growth is our highest returning
investments that we can make in the
business. In a similar vein, the number
of high growth platform businesses that
we own has more than doubled. And
lastly, our asset rotation program is
also five times bigger, allowing us to
self-fund our growth, which is our
lowest cost source of capital to fund
new investments.
The strength of the business and the
strategy execution has also been
showcased during 2025.
We've made significant investments in
growth already exceeding our annual
goal, deploying $2.1 billion.
700 million of that has been deployed
into organic growth projects and 1.4
billion has been deployed into four new
investments at returns we believe will
exceed our target returns of 12 to 15%.
We have also been successful this year
in recycling capital to self-fund our
growth. We have already secured $2.8
billion of sale proceeds and that's an
annual record for BIP.
This includes eight transactions that
involved either full or partial exits.
And altogether these asset sales have
results where we've achieved a 20% IRR
and a four times multiple capital. These
are terrific results and a testament to
our ability to crystallize value.
Now, in terms of the macro environment,
several factors are trending in a
positive direction from our perspective.
First, in most parts of the world,
interest rates are stable or decreasing,
a positive for our portfolio. Now, one
recent example of the benefit of lower
rates is a 5-year BIP bond that we did
just this week where we issued at a
coupon of 3.7%.
Just two years ago in 2023, we issued a
similar bond that was over 200 basis
points higher than that. These are rates
that we saw back five to seven years ago
when rates were much lower.
Another favorable trend has been the
softening of the US dollar. For the
first time in many years, FX rates may
no longer be a headwind for us. And in
fact, if this trend continues, it may
become a tailwind.
And then lastly, as we've been saying
for a few years, we are in a massive
investment cycle across all our
segments. We've been calling this an
infrastructure super cycle. Now you're
going you've probably heard lots of big
numbers but it's estimated that the
world needs probably a you know hundred
trillion dollars in investment uh going
up to 2040 in order to meet you know the
new and update infrastructure
requirements you know across the world
and that probably is underestimated
given that uh AI estimates are only
growing from year to year to year.
So let's just bring this all together.
BIP delivered strong FFO growth of 10%
annually over the past five years in
spite of interest rate and FX headwinds.
We believe that with FX and interest
rates normalizing along with the
strategic enhancements that we've made
to the business. This will result in BIP
returning to annual growth rates for the
next five years approaching where we
have those long-term rates of about 14%.
Higher growth rates ultimately will
enable us to increase dividends at the
higher end of of our 5 to9% range and
we'll do that without increasing our
payout ratio.
So the content for the remainder of our
presentation today will be on our
execution playbook and this is how we're
going to deliver higher FFO growth. Now,
first up is Leaf Williams, the managing
director in our AI infrastructure
business, and he'll come up and preview
AI infrastructure and explain why we
believe this new investment category
will be a massive opportunity for BIT.
After leaf, Scott Peak, president of our
infrastructure business, will come up
and walk you through our deployment this
year and how we expect to out return out
perform our return targets. And then
lastly, David Carrant, our CFO, will
discuss the evolution of our capital
recycling program and how it creates
value and growth for the company. And
with that, I'll ask Lee to come up.
Thank you, Sam. So, we thought we would
start by recapping a little bit about
what we said last year at this event,
which was really two main themes.
Firstly, the digitalization tailwinds
continue to accelerate and secondly that
BIP is well positioned to participate
both through our existing asset base and
through new opportunities.
With the passing of a year and the
benefit of hindsight, we will be the
first to admit that we may have
underestimated the sheer scale of the
opportunity set.
The growth is exponential and is much
much larger than we imagined a year ago.
To take a couple of data points, hypers
scale capex in 2024 was already an
all-time high at 270 billion. A year
later, it's increased by 50%
year-over-year, up to 400 billion. We're
now at the point where this is impacting
US economic statistics. Uh, with this
making up about 1 to 2% of US GDP,
that's already higher for the sake of
context than the fiber build of the
early 2000s. and it's starting to
approach the buildout of the railroads
uh during the late 1800s.
Now, what's driving hypers scale cap x
is the race led by the largest
technology companies in the world and
and this is supported by advancements in
semiconductor chips. So for um uh out of
interest uh to support AI workloads,
current chips are using 10 times more
power density for than for nonAI
workloads. And so we're up to about 120
kilowatts per rack relative to nonAI
workloads which are more like 10
kilowatts per rack. This is already two
times higher than we were forecasting
only a year ago. What's even more
impressive is if you look out 5 or 10
years, the leading chip designers are
actually forecasting that it will
increase another 5 to 10fold from where
we are today. And so this will be half a
megawatt or a megawatt per rack.
What's really important to emphasize
about this is uh the incremental
uh the fact that having more powerful
compute infrastructure will enable more
powerful agentic AI. And so for example
uh even the most powerful compute
cluster in the world today is limited by
memory bandwidth and by context length.
And what we mean by that is that large
language models will forget instructions
that were previously provided or work
that was previously done. And so having
more powerful compute will enable us to
push out the technology frontier and and
do things rather than just a single
topic query. It will be able to be a
persistent partner that works for hours,
days, or even longer periods of time.
And so with that backdrop, it will be no
surprise that our data center platform
has experienced a step change in growth.
We've sold effectively all of the
inventory that we had available. And so
in the last few quarters, we've secured
additional development capacity. We will
be able to deliver this product to our
end customers for years to come.
Uh this land bank will provide long-term
optionality. And what's really exciting
about investing in the data center
sector is is that it uh hits all of the
in infrastructure attributes that we
target. So high barriers to entry,
long-term contracted cash flows,
investment grade counterparties,
inflation protections, and ultimately uh
attractive riskadjusted returns.
But it hasn't just impacted our existing
asset base. We see a whole host of new
opportunities to invest capital to
support the unprecedented scale required
to build out AI.
Over the next 10 years, we see a 7
trillion investment opportunity in the
physical assets supporting AI. This will
start with AI factories, which is a next
generation of digital hub powered by uh
specialized uh networking and liquid
cooling to host hundreds of thousands or
millions of chips. In addition, uh
behind the meter power generation will
be required given shortfalls on the
grid. We will also need to invest in
comput infrastructure to support the AI
factories and additional portions of the
AI value chain.
So to dive into AI factories for a
moment, what do we mean by this? Well,
firstly, this is a $2 trillion
opportunity set in and of itself. There
are really two raw inputs that are
required to feed AI. Power and compute.
These are also the two constraints that
are slowing the deployment of AI around
the world and delaying the technology
frontier.
And so AI factories are really an
extension of our existing investment
perimeter. We currently invest about $10
million per megawatt into building out
uh cloud data centers. This would
include the purchase of land, connecting
it to connecting it to the grid,
investing in the building shell, and
then investing in the mechanical and
electrical systems that support the IT
load inside the data center.
AI factories are all the same things,
but even more. We would also need to
invest an incremental 30 million per
megawatt of IT load. So up to a total of
four times what we invest into a cloud
data center. The largest part of this
incremental investment is is into the
chips outright. Now, traditionally,
chips have been funded by the data
center customers and so it's been on on
corporate balance sheets, but even the
largest and best funded corporate
balance sheets are unable to address the
physical and uh immense capital needs
going into this space. So again to
provide context, Chad GPT4 was trained
using 25,000 GPUs over a period of 100
days. A modern AI factory will host a
million GPUs and and these are more
powerful GPUs than the prior vintage of
chips. And so the scale here is enormous
and and technology partners technology
companies are looking for partners like
Brookfield who have experience owning
and operating these assets and have
access to capital to deploy into the
space.
So we wanted to spend a few minutes
talking about some of the AI factories
that we are developing.
There are seven AI factories that we are
pursuing in five countries and really
one thing that's very exciting about the
current AI market is that
um the customer the universe of
customers has expanded and so
traditionally there were maybe a handful
of hypers scale customers who could be
the tenant for a data center. Today we
see native AI companies a wave of
enterprise companies and perhaps most
interestingly is sovereign governments
themselves are are looking to be
offtakers for this infrastructure.
Governments
around the world are looking at AI
realizing that firstly for data
sovereignty reasons as well as data
security reasons and then perhaps most
interestingly uh the transformative
economic potential that AI offers and
realizing that AI should be at the top
of their agenda and as a result they
would like to support the build of the
infrastructure in their region. So the
seven AI factories will in total
comprise 6 gawatt of compute, 3 million
GPUs and 200 billion of total capital
deployment. Now we realize that these
are staggering numbers and so to
contextualize uh the 200 billion would
occur over time. We have selected these
sites to be futurep proof where they can
be expanded to meet our customer needs
over decades to come. In addition, it
includes both debt and equity. And in
each of these regions, we are partnering
with technology companies. And so
ultimately, the equity would be shared
between ourselves and and our uh
partners.
The other thing to note is in terms of
uh the GPU deployment and and and the
leases that we have with our customers,
this will follow exactly the same
infrastructure model that we have with
the broader data center. And so these
are taker contracts with investment
grade counterparties and no technology
risk.
And so to sum it all up, the AI
infrastructure super cycle is here. This
is a multigenerational investment
opportunity.
an intelligent world. Brookfield is a
partner of choice for large technology
companies and for governments around the
world. We are excited to be investing in
the space at returns that exceed our
target and expect BIP to deploy 500
million annually to make this future a
reality. And so with that, we'll go next
to Scott Peak, the president of our
infrastructure business.
[Applause]
Okay, thanks Leaf. Well, uh, hopefully
you're concluding that it has been a
very productive 2025 for Brookfield
Infrastructure across all of our
business. This year, we made excellent
investments. We've advanced asset
management priorities and team activity
levels remain very high.
Therefore, we thought it's timely to
share an update with you on our recent
deployment activity and our deployment
outlook for the business.
Let's set the stage. Three key messages.
The first is that the infrastructure
super cycle continues to serve as a
deployment tailwind for our business
enabling us to be very selective.
The second is we have a proven track
record of executing marquee transactions
opportunistically across cycles.
And third, our active asset management
approach generates a return premium
incremental to our initial underwriting.
And together we continue to deliver
investment returns above our stated
targets. Our
results validate that we're focused on
the right themes in the right regions at
the right time in the market.
Digitalization, deglobalization,
decarbonization, our long-standing 3Ds
now remain the most topical for our
business. Each of these D's continues to
require an enormous amount of capital,
creating a deployment tailwind,
expanding our opportunity set, and
enabling us to patiently select only the
best investments in front of us, and
together translating to return
outperformance.
We follow the large-scale capital needs
along the economic backbone of the
regions where we invest. 10 years ago,
our global investment activity was
focused on ports, toll roads, gas and
electricity transmission and towers.
Then the opportunity set evolved
primarily due to three reasons. The
first is technological evolution led to
new businesses which did not previously
exist for example fiber.
The second is certain businesses
improved their contracting models to
attract large-scale capital, thus
becoming more suitable investments for
us. Think data centers. And third, with
time, frankly, we became more
comfortable with certain businesses that
we did not previously prioritize, such
as residential infrastructure.
And the evolution continues today.
This year we've added AI factories, bulk
fiber networks, refined products
pipelines, rail car leasing, and
industrial gas platforms among others.
We have a differentiated ability to
apply our learnings across industry
sectors,
often from and to businesses that
otherwise appear unrelated.
And by doing this, we unlock
opportunities that others frankly just
don't see.
Let's touch on a few examples. You see
here, and you'll remember our
partnership with Intel, the first of its
kind semiconductor partnership that we
announced a few years ago. The market
viewed it to be quite innovative,
but the component parts of the
transaction were simply adapted from our
prior investments.
We took the contracting framework from
our hypers scale data centers.
We took the project finance framework
for investments like our LG tolling
facilities and we took the governance
and risk allocation from various large
scale corporate partnerships that we've
done.
A similar cross- sector approach was
applied for a hot wire acquisition where
we weave together our experience from
fiber and residential infrastructure and
stabilized asset carveouts which you
have seen us us execute on over the past
year in our European data center
platform as well as our containing
leasing platform
and cross- sector learnings were also
applied this year to our rail car
leasing partnership and our investment
in Colonial.
Uncertainty often leads to market
volatility,
creating a buyer market for those
investors who resist the tendency to
simply sit on the sidelines. These are
the times when us at Brookfield, we find
that we are the most active and we move
decisively with a focus on the highest
quality businesses.
The large marquee businesses we acquire
are rarely available particularly on a
value basis. They perform essential
services typically on a regulated or
contracted basis without material
crossber trade activities.
The investments we make in uncertain
market periods typically outperform.
During the pandemic, we acquired several
excellent businesses at deep value.
During the macro rate shock environment,
while most paused for consensus on the
trajectory for rates, we quickly
acquired great businesses with limited
to no competition.
And earlier this year, during the trade
disputes, we acquired marquee businesses
which are already exceeding our
expectations.
And while our teams are busy during the
uncertain times, there's no vacations at
Brookfield. They're also busy in the
interim periods, characterized by
elevated market sentiment when the
sidelines clear. These are the periods
where we opportunistically recycle
capital from our mature businesses.
Our transactions this year covered our
sectors and our typical deal structures.
In July, we closed the 100% acquisition
of Colonial, a valuebased acquisition of
a highly cash generative and strategic
pipeline system, spanning 5,500 miles
from Houston to New York.
Earlier this month, we closed the 100%
acquisition of Hotwire, the leading
platform of bulk fiber to the home
infrastructure, and we signed a railc
car leasing partnership with GATX, the
leading corporate strategic, in a
corporate carveout of an attractive
Korean industrial gas platform.
I'll now spotlight our investment in
Colonial.
Colonial is the largest refined product
system in the US supplying almost half
of the demand of the US East Coast with
a multi-deade history is the lowest
option for customers with utilization
over 90%.
Colonial is a large critical and marquee
midstream business that we acquired at
nine times ebida with a high cash yield.
So how are we able to do this one? The
transaction timeline overlap the trade
war noise limiting credible competition
particularly at this scale.
Second is our pipeline and fk experience
enabled us to quickly complete due
diligence and moving quickly as a single
buyer on an allcash offer during an
uncertain market period enabled us to
suess successfully sign the transaction.
Four years ago at this investor day, I
shared a case study on our take private
of inner pipeline and I outlined our
self-imposed midstream rules for our
investments that we do in the space. I
suspect some of you may have been in the
audience then and like inner pipeline
colonial is a critical midstream
business which checks all of our boxes.
It's highly cash generative with a quick
payback. It's f regulated with inflation
linked tariffs, an investment grade
capital structure, and we underwrote it
conservatively with long-term declining
utilization in a finite life.
And importantly, Colonial came with
significant untapped opportunity to
apply our operationally intensive asset
management approach and materially
outperform.
Our business plan for Colonial is
focused on bridging from our downside
target downside protected target return
to our performance return by focusing on
three main priorities.
The first is to align incentives and
accountabilities where we eliminate
bureaucracy and inefficient work
streams. The second is to enhance
margins
where we look to find win-win
arrangements with stakeholders.
We'd look to drive operational
excellence while we ensure that safety
and reliability remains paramount. And
third, to prepare the business for
future opportunistic exit with
optionality for diverse products.
Now on to Hotwire.
Hotwire is the leading US provider of
bulk fiber broadband infrastructure to
home and condo owner associations.
long-term take or pay contracts, a
self-funding model, and an efficient
inplace capital structure.
We are the natural owners of Hotwire
because we bring our experience in
residential real estate, our homebuilder
relationships, and our complimentary
residential infrastructure platforms. We
have deep fiber and securitized asset
financing expertise, and an ability to
incorporate the learnings from seemingly
dissimilar businesses.
Hotwire had been in operation for 25
years as a single business.
Given our prior stabilized asset
experience, we quickly recognized
Hotwire would be optimized as two
businesses.
Business number one, a development
growth platform, including a proven
development engine, 2,000 employees, and
200 homebuilder relationships. Business
number two, a stabilized portfolio of
contracted fiber assets.
long-term contracts, high cash yield,
high renewal visibility.
We split hot wire concurrently with
signing the transaction and exited the
majority of the stabilized business. We
partnered with lower cost of capital
consistent with the low-risk nature of
the stabilized business and together
this unlocked value not historically
recognized and not shared with the
sellers.
So with that structural change behind
us, what's next for Hotwire? Three-step
out performance plan. One, continue to
sell down stabilized assets and recycle
capital.
Two, expand partnerships with large home
builders and developers. And three,
leverage the Brookfield ecosystem so
that we can enhance C Hotwire's customer
service offering.
And if we do this, Hotwire is well
placed to serve as another innovative
and outperforming platform for us.
So in conclusion, our business is
ideally positioned. We have a robust and
attractive opportunity set in front of
us and we have a differentiated ability
to both originate and add value. And
taken together, we expect to continue to
achieve returns above our stated
targets.
Thank you. We remain excited for what's
next for Brookfield Infrastructure. And
I'll now hand the stage over to our CFO,
David Grant. Thanks,
Thank you, Scott, and good afternoon,
everyone.
Now, last year, we identified a 5 to6
billion dollar target for our capital
recycling program. Just nine months in,
we have delivered $3 billion of capital
recycling proceeds. And we've done that
while crystallizing excellent returns.
So today I'm going to focus on how we
measure success of that program and how
this year's sales alone could unlock up
to $6 billion of value for our
shareholders in the years to come. Much
of it behind the scenes and outside of
our key performance metrics.
Our capital recycling program has scaled
with the growth of our business. It is
now a key differentiator that will fuel
the next phase of our growth that you've
heard today.
Let's take a look at what we've achieved
so far this year.
We've sold $2.8 billion worth of
businesses. We've done this across eight
exits. They spann six different
countries, one from each of at least
each of our segments, and truly
demonstrate the broad-based global
demand for high quality infrastructure
businesses like ours.
Now, in addition, we've done it in a
variety of ways. Looking at our toolkit,
which won't surprise anyone, we have
leveraged a variety of techniques to to
maximize value for our shareholders. As
you heard, we've used stabilized asset
pools for the first time this year,
identifying it in our European data
centers and within Triton. That's a
great way of pulling out a lower risk,
lower growth stream of cash flows from a
broader platform to finding the right
buyer. It generally results in a broader
investor universe and a better outcome
for us as sellers.
Now, I'm going to focus the next little
while on the three key ways in which
recycling capital in our business
creates value for us. First, it reduces
the reliance on public markets to fund
our future growth.
Second, it creates a significant amount
of value that we build and compound
during our investment period. And
finally, it is an accretive source of
perpetual capital that we can use to
redeploy and grow faster.
We'll go through each of these in
succession, starting with our funding
sources.
We've broken up the last 15 years into
three distinct 5-year intervals. As
you've seen our investment pace ramp up,
so has our capital recycling. In fact,
in the last five years, we have funded
over 85% of our new investments with
asset recycling. In fact, if I shorten
that period to just the last 3 to four
years, 100%
of all of our new investments were
funded with capital recycling proceeds.
That's right. Every single dollar we
deployed into new investments was funded
internally.
Now the second pillar of our value uh of
the value creation we have here is that
it crystallizes the value that we have
compounded over our investment period.
Now investing at 12 to 15% targets like
we do is great is good but what's better
is if we're able to compound those
returns over longer periods of time or
we're able to unlock more value and earn
a higher return.
That's when it becomes exceptional. And
I think that's what I'd characterize
this year as across the $2.8 billion of
proceeds, you can see our average IRRa
was 20%.
Now, considering our hold period for
this portfolio averaged about 8 to N
years, that translated into a multiple
on our capital of four times. These are
great returns by any standard. But what
what's more impressive to me is the fact
that these were earned on either
regulated utilities or highly contracted
businesses.
And so how do these returns get captured
in our reported results? Well, the truth
is they don't. And that's what I'm going
to elaborate on in a little bit now in
terms of how this profit we earn on
these investments gets captured in net
income or an FFO.
And so starting with net income, as
we've said in years past, this measure
is not great for how we track our
business on annual performance because
most of the FFO or cash flow we generate
and distribute is offset by amortization
or depreciation.
What that means is that over time our
book value or carrying value of our
investments tends to deplete or reduce
over time resulting in an exit and a
large gain on exit. As you can see here,
across these four assets, when we
dispose of them, we'll recognize a gain
a total of about a billion dollars net
to BIP.
Now, you might be wondering, I thought
you revalue your assets under IFRS.
Well, it's true. We do follow that
standard. However, there are limitations
to what IFS allows you to revalue.
To put it into non-accounting terms for
most of those people in the room, our
standards allow us to value the assets
in place, the physical pipes, the
processing units, the data centers, but
it doesn't allow you to value the
business. And as many know, there's a
lot more that goes into running a
business than just the physical assets.
In fact, it doesn't allow us to revalue
the growth ahead of it, the intangible
customer relationships we've built over
time or the platform values we've built
during our 10 years of ownership in
large in many cases. And so as a result,
when you go to exit these businesses,
you tend to sell them at premiums. This
year, that's no different. We recognize
a two times uplift over our book value
on exit.
What's even more interesting is our key
performance metric, funds from
operations or FFO, also doesn't capture
this benefit either.
To highlight this, what we've done is
we've taken our realized multiple of
capital, which is simply just the cash
on cash return we earned over the
investment period divided by our day one
investment, and we use that multiple to
imply the realized profit that we earned
on that investment. It's simple. For
each of them, we've highlighted that in
the middle there. We then compared that
to the cumulative funds from operations
that we recognized on those same
investments over our investment period.
What it tells us is that no matter which
investment we look at, there were
hundreds of millions of dollars of
profit that we earned as the investor
that never went recorded through our
funds from operations. Meaning, had we
been able to capture the benefit we
created over time, our reported results
would have been been much higher and
grown much quicker than they had. Now
recognizing these limitations is the
very reason we focus on IRRs and
multiples of capital when we're
explaining how we did as investors.
Now the third and final value creator
and probably the most important here
today that I want to highlight is how we
can create significant value when we
take the proceeds from our asset sales
and redeploy them into higher returning
investments.
So this boils down to sources of
capital. And in terms of cost of
capital, we've outlaid
where we think our target cost of
capital is for asset sales. Obviously,
it's going to be a little more expensive
than issuing corporate debt or preferred
shares, but we believe it's highly
accreative when compared to the cost of
issuing new equity to fund our growth.
This year's program certainly outlines
that merit. In terms of some of the key
headline metrics we delivered, our sales
this year triangulated to an FFO yield
of 7%.
Candidly, that's a helpful number in the
short term, but tells us no real nothing
of importance over the longer term.
Instead, looking at our implied EV to
Ebida multiple on these sales and the
buyer's cost of capital can be much more
valuable.
The 10 to 11% buyer's cost of capital we
achieved is an estimate. The buyers of
our businesses are going to make
assumptions on their own of how they
expect these businesses to perform in
the years ahead. However, we can imply
them by looking at our business plans
for these businesses and using the price
they paid. This year, we average about
10 to 11% for that cost of equity.
I'm going to touch on what that means in
a second, but first, we thought we would
just highlight the disconnect that we're
seeing again between the public and
private valuations of our businesses.
Interestingly, when you compare that 15
times EV to EBIDA multiple that we were
able to achieve on our program, which
again, not to repeat myself, was across
four segments, six countries, so a
pretty broad group of our assets. That
15 times multiple is three to four turns
higher than where BIP overall trades at.
Meaning there's a quite a premium in the
private markets for the types of assets
that we own.
back pivoting back to that 10 to 11%
cost of capital. What does that tell us?
Well, it's a really important metric in
how we decide how or determine how much
value we think we can create in the in
the years ahead. To determine that
value, there are three key inputs that
you need. The first is that cost of
capital. So, for illustrative purposes,
we're using 11% this year. Second is the
size of our recycling program. As you've
heard, we've delivered nearly $3 billion
this year. And the third is our
expectation of what we will earn in the
years ahead when we redeploy it. And so
as you've heard, we've have some of the
best investments we've made in the last
24 months that we believe will exceed
our target returns. So for illustration
purposes, we've used a range of 15 to
17%.
And so when you look at the value you
create by reinvesting that $3 billion at
17% relative to the 11% it cost us on
our balance sheet. We think we can
create up to $6 billion of incremental
value by doing this program.
And importantly that's just this year's
sales alone. That is the benefit of this
asset recycling program is that we're
constantly selling derisked mature
businesses and reinvesting them into
higher growth higher returning
opportunities.
Now,
to sum up our capital recycling
initiative this year, there are three
things I want to leave you with. The
first is that we will meet our $3
billion target for this year. In fact,
we're already there. Second, we believe
we'll sell a further $3 billion of
assets in the next 12 to to 18 months.
And then they're going there forward a 2
to3 billion annual run rate for our
program. And finally, we expect to
create significant value when we
redeploy those proceeds into higher
returning opportunities.
So with that, I'll now invite Stan back
up for closing remarks and uh and
questions and answers. Thank you.
[Applause]
Well, thank you for listening to our
presentation and I'd like to leave you
with a few thoughts before we start Q&A.
Uh we coined a phrase uh that BIP was a
growility a couple years ago and we
believe that's not only the case but
that we're an even better one today.
You know, as we think about the next
five years, you know, what we've talked
about is the fact that we're in a moment
in time when we have all the macro
trends going in our favor, including the
huge investment opportunity related to
AI infrastructure. And in addition to
that, we've had the benefit of all the
uh enhancements that we are putting into
the business that we've been able to
execute, which is investing at higher
returns and also recycling capital at a
higher rate, which we think will
compound value and increase growth over
those next five years. And if we do
that, that's going to lead to higher FFO
growth, which ultimately leads to higher
dividend increases.
