Please welcome the panel on the future
of venture capital, AI, IPOs and tech
investment moderated by Roma Bostik, TV
anchor at Bloomberg.
The future of venture capital, they make
these things so so broad. I mean, we can
kind of go anywhere with this. And I I
don't know if we want to hit the ground
running in the same way that Brendan and
everyone in Washington has. as the chaos
in Washington, have you felt that in
your businesses at all or is that just
so far removed from what you do? Raj,
you know, I I think for us, we're as
venture capitalists, we take a very
long-term perspective on our investing.
Um, so I think in the immediate term,
you know, we're much more focused on new
fundamental technologies that we think
are fundamentally transformative, but of
course, exit markets, IPO markets are
much more closely related to public
equity markets. So we absolutely pay
attention to it when we talk about sort
of the big fundamental and structural
investment opportunities in the VC space
and I'll start I'll just go down the
line here with you Amir. I mean what is
kind of the primary thing that you're
looking at right now? Well you know
we're focused on exponential
technologies which uh actually ends up
involving a lot of hardware componentry.
So for example robotics for example
alternate computing systems and things
of that nature communications gear. And
uh one of the things that is uh causing
some um volatility let's just say in
planning is just you know how these
tariffs shape out. We'll see. Uh right
now there's a tactical effect that we
already see on some of the equipment
that's being brought in. Our goal of
course is to manufacture it in America
but the global supply chain is what it
is and there has to be acquisition of uh
equipment and and uh electronics in
particular from other countries. Uh so
that's one u thing and I think the the
other part of it is just um the whole
millu around tech investing was very um
engagementoriented. there was a lot of
work that was being done in partnership
with defense companies in Europe and
defense companies in the US and uh in
particular in in the change that's
happened globally now there is uh a
little bit of a of a of a difference in
how those partnerships uh are seen
because I think uh people are looking
for greater levels of sovereignity and
uh that's a very polite way of saying
less business with let's say American
companies you know and more reliance on
local production in Europe. So, I've
been quite deeply involved with defense
over the last two year, two decades, and
I see that that is uh a factor. So, this
is a long story, but I'll just touch on
those two and and we can keep uh keep
going. Yeah, we can keep going, Daniel.
Don't let them monopolize this whole
conversation. Yeah, I mean, I I'd be
lying if uh I it wasn't a little
disappointing coming into the, you know,
2025 thinking that there were going to
be a lot of IPOs and and the market has
certainly shifted a little bit. So um
you know I think both both you know for
ourselves and and our LPs who uh have
been waiting for a while for for some of
the liquidity to come in the venture
capital asset uh class that's been uh
you know that that has been a little
disappointing but um we are seeing some
green shoots. I think there was an IPO
that priced today in fact. So, uh, you
know, it's nice to nice to see those
things starting to happen. And I also
think, you know, it's almost like the
the the more volatility and the more
that every day there's an announcement
of something, it almost starts to
normalize. And so, you know, I think the
volatil the VIX is is actually coming
down. And I think it is interesting
because it's, you know, I think Are you
saying volatility is coming down or
we're just getting used to the pain?
Well, I think volatility is coming down
because we're getting used to the pain.
I mean, it's actually really
interesting. I mean, I don't know, you
know, how Anyway, I have a company
that's literally like on the tarmac, you
know, waiting to go public. So, so we're
watching it closely. Um, but, you know,
yeah, that's definitely been a focus.
Um, but at the same time, on the other
side of things, the opportunity set
truly, I mean, has never been, I mean,
more incredible. And you know I I mean I
was I was telling somebody earlier I I I
literally you know was grew up in
Seattle early days of the cellular
industry listening to you know to to
chairman Carr talking about it and we
were bidding on spectrum and bidding on
spectrum around the world. The FCC had
been sort of the initiator and the rest
of the world followed suit. Um and then
you know I was in Silicon Valley spent a
decade there really at the early days of
the internet and this feels like that
all over again. I mean if not a bigger
because of all of the waves that have
come before. And so you know I think the
on the one hand you know you sort of
look out and the markets feel like geez
screech to a halt. Um but on the other
hand you know like Raj said we're
long-term investors and we invest in the
innovation economy and if that's where I
mean that's that's where you're looking
there are opportunities probably the
best opportunities of our lifetime. Yeah
I would assume that you would agree. I
mean seen everything that uh general
general catalyst has done over the last
few years I assume you feel the same. No
absolutely I think I think there are two
mega trends. There's geopolitics and
then there's applied AI and the reality
is that both of them are forcing a
transformation of all the key
industries. So everything we're building
whether it's transformation of the
enterprise or sort of fundamentally
different value propositions in
industries like you know defense
industrials healthcare energy you know
these are these are massive markets all
changing uh because they're being forced
to change because of those two macro
tends so but are those two things
complimentary or are they going to be in
conflict with each other
um that's a good question I think um
they are reinforcing each other that's
just the reality
And the challenge for building companies
today is you you you have to build in
these markets with consideration for
your core market. So so if you're a
defense company in United States, you
really focus on how do you service the
US market and you know we have defense
prime in Europe that's really focused on
European market. But we teach these
companies to think about being global
leaders eventually. And so I think this
threading that tension of how do you
really take care of resilience needs of
your local markets but in a way that you
actually will have the opportunity to be
global. That's an interesting challenge
in today's time. I mean air I mean
you're very global. Is that advisable
right now given that we don't quite know
how all of this is going to end? Well
you know ultimately if you implement uh
if you invest in technology companies
what are you really investing in people
right? And uh we also know that this is
kind of a longtail business. You know
the distribution of success you want to
find the outliers. Um so do you want to
pick from a pool of 340 million or do
you want to pick from a pool of 8.5
billion and our uh founder at world
quant Igor Tilchinsky has this wonderful
thing that he says which is that you
know opportunity isn't universally
distributed but talent is. So that's
been part of our ethos uh for a long
time and all of the people involved in
the in the firm are very global in
nature. Now that doesn't mean that at
all times every door is open to us
because there are political
elements and changes that for example
close the door on China for a while or
might close the door on some other part
of the world for a while but the world
isn't going anywhere and u I think
rather than having the philosophy of you
know this is uh this is disengagement
and just sort of focus in in on this one
place I think that's kind of stealing
opportunity
uh from your LPs because the most
brilliant people in the world are you
you know equally distributed and there's
a lot of them outside of wherever we
happen to be. So um if we want to reward
our partners uh with the highest
possible return and we're in an
intellectual property software hardware
business where design and mind and
innovation are everything then um it's
our job to find the best in the world
and make them part of our portfolio and
that's really the way that we think
about the world. Is the regulatory
environment here in the United States or
at least the way that it might be going
under the Trump administration, is that
going to be conducive to what you're
trying to do? Raj, I mean, we just heard
from uh Chairman Carr. He seemed very
bullish about uh creating an environment
that could potentially be a little
easier for a lot of VCs. I think there's
things that the government can
definitely do in terms of clarifying.
You know, he talked about space
technology. We invest in space. It's
helpful to know exactly what are the
rules for companies in space and to have
a clear set of guidelines to operate to.
But I think it's far too easy to blame
the government for the woes of venture
capital. I actually always think of this
conference and the crowd size at the
venture capital session as a good
indicator of where we are in VC and
we're in a bit of a low point. You know,
this room used to be standing room only.
Okay. Um three plus years ago and I
think we're in a bit of a lull in the
industry. And you know, to Dana's point,
these low points in the industry are
when we think some of the most resilient
founders are are building companies. And
I think you're going to see profound
change in VC. You're going to see that
the demarcation between venture capital
firms, private equity firms um really
start to go away. You've obviously I'll
let Hmon talk about what they're doing
at GC, but you're seeing a lot of firms
that are starting to say that we're
private capital investment firms that
use AI and data as an advantage. And
that's definitely the direction that
we're going at in B Capital. Our focus
is to really build the renaissance
technologies of private market
investing. And um I'm fortunate that my
partner Howard Morgan built Renaissance
technologies and in public markets. And
um we think that AI and data is going to
profoundly change the way that private
market investing is done. And it's been
done really kind of in an imperfect
inefficient way and that there's going
to be profound transformation over the
next 5 to 10 years. And Dana, you've
applied that as well at Greatcraft,
right? Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, I
think it's kind of almost like any
industry, if you're not starting to uh
leverage AI and and machine learning in
your business and you're you will
probably be left behind in some way,
shape, or form. Um, so absolutely. I
would also say though, and you know, I
think that for sure, uh, the venture
capital industry is maturing. I'd say
somewhat institutionalizing. Um, but at
the end of the day, we're also still
investing in founders, very early stage
companies that still go through all of
the same pain. They have to open an
office, they have to sign a lease, they
have, you know, you know, literally like
you go through all the same things. It
doesn't matter if you raise, you know, a
million dollars in your seed round or a
hundred million dollars in your seed
round. You still have to take those same
steps. And that's what you know as early
stage venture I mean we're full life
cycle but really at those earliest
stages you invest into founders and you
really help them all the way along their
journey. And so I think the capital side
is changing for sure but the
fundamentals of the business are are
still very much about working closely
with founders and I think founders are
looking for partners who really can you
know share in their journey. Yeah. And
it's, you know, every so many things
happen to you along the way. You know, I
mean, with many of the founders we've
worked with, they started at, you know,
age 25 and then they get married, they
have kids, they go through all sorts of
things and, you know, they may even get
divorced. We're still with them. So,
well, with what the founders want, this
is a question for all of you. Is that
has that changed? Meaning, are they
looking for more guidance and advice
relative to maybe in the past where it
was just about, you know, getting the
check and and moving on? Has that
changed? For sure. I think I I really
think that you know that the founders
and founding teams are are looking for
partnership in in navigating all of
these changes because they're also I
mean you know for everybody it's sort of
okay what who should I take early stage
capital from should I take it from a
full you know full life cycle platform
should I take it from a seed fund I mean
there really are you know I think you
can read everything all the information
about starting a company is available
now I mean that that playing field has
leveled um but as far as kind of what
you do with that and what that looks
like dayto-day. Uh there's still a lot
to be done. Yeah, I feel very strongly
that in particular early stage founders,
we work with a lot of early stage
founders don't always know what they
need and they don't always know what
they want. And that is not a reflection
on them. It's a reflection simply on the
fact that they've never really done it
before. And building a company is a
complex endeavor. In other words, there
is no one book or five books or six
books that I can give anyone and say
this is what it feels like to build a
company. It's a fundamentally uh
combustive, consumptive, difficult uh
tribulationfilled experience because
there is so much complexity in the in
this in this path. And um now in my own
case, I have built companies and I think
that uh that kind of entrepreneurial
thinking of of remembering that day when
you were entirely beaten down,
remembering that day when a term sheet
got pulled for no reason, remembering
that those things are interesting
because you can at least share what you
went through and how you dealt with it.
U and that is visceral. So I guess what
I'm trying to say is that one element of
what early stage entrepreneurs need is
the realization that they too will go
through some tribulation and at that
time people that are close to having
experienced that tribulation are
probably best suited to provide counsel.
That's a huge part of entrepreneurship.
Just the emotional element of keeping
people on target. I think that's huge.
So that that is one thing. the other
stuff around, you know, let me tell you,
I'll connect with you six people in my
network who you might hire as sales guys
and I I know eight developers that I can
send to you and I have a really good
real estate guy and three law firms.
Okay, whatever. I mean, that's that's
not to brag, right? That's just part of
for the cost. Whatever, you know. Uh but
I think that domain expertise, knowing
how to do the thing with your own hands
and having put your heart and mind in
the same situation that this
entrepreneur will likely be in. Those
two qualities allow you to be a real
coach and a real mentor. But this is
just my view. I have obviously
experienced a long period of time where
I wished for more of that and I feel
that that's something that you know my
partner Steve and I are committed to
delivering to our entrepreneurs because
I think that matters more than anything
else.
You've been quiet down there. You're
very far away by the way. So look, I
think um we think about the founder
proposition
uh before the whole chatbt AI revolution
a lot of the companies that were getting
built there there was sort of a
archetype to it which was these were
hacker founders you would build really
good engineering teams you would get
product market fit by using distribution
and all the platforms that got created
since uh in my opinion since 07 and you
would go build these kind of product
ccentric companies. If you look at
what's happening now with AI, there's a
fundamental shift and the shift again
it's about going and transforming
industries. So the archetype of the
founder first of all that does that well
is not this precise productentric
founder. It's actually somebody who
knows how to navigate this ambiguity and
almost treat these customers as design
design wins and go do a lot of things
with them. So there's this whole nature
of sort of compound startups getting
built. The most valuable companies
getting built today. They're buying
stuff. They're building organically.
They're very creative and they're
figuring out how to be better at
partnerships with outside industries and
the so the advantage around distribution
and helping them get access to these
markets, helping them understand how to
deal with governments because these are
regulated markets a lot of them. Um
that's the skills that these founders
are looking for helping in this next
generation. Um and it's very different
from what it was before which is you
know can you help us scale the
engineering team and you know a sort of
growth unit economics. So it's sort of a
the founder proposition is changing in
this next phase where you're going more
into transformations of industries.
Go ahead Dana. I mean I I I agree but I
also I mean I think um you know in the
early days of the internet when when you
know we were funding companies that were
building communications networks and
semiconductors and you know I mean it
was sort of the same thing then and I
think I mean we're did need to have you
know a lot of the same things. I I I
actually think um really from sort of
like 07 until just a few years ago
everything was being done at the
application layer. Yeah. That we were
all investing in and and that is a very
different type of founder like you're
saying but fun again sort of
fundamentally what what you go through
in a founder journey. I mean part of it
is like what you actually need the
physical needs. Do you need
relationships with the government? Do
you need you know relationships with
with you know long-term funders etc. um
with bankers etc. Um that that's one set
of things. The other set of things
though is is actually just you know
being sort of the person that they call
at 11 o'clock at night when you know
grappling with something real. And I
know we all you know go through this and
experience it but you know I I I think
that's something that is increasingly
important because the world is moving
it. This is all moving so fast like
founders are having to navigate the most
complex environments that I think have
really ever existed. I mean especially
when you sort of layer on the you know
geopolitical side of things. And so, um,
I, you know, again, I don't want to o
overemphasize it too much, but I I think
that idea of partnership is is a really
important one and and one that it it
feels like as we institutionalize as an
asset class really can't be left behind
because it's just such a critical nature
of that that you know sort of founder
funer relationship and I mean the role
obviously changes for what you all all
of you are doing. I am curious about the
investment side of it and whether the
investment strategy has to change as
well and I'll start with you Raj on
that. I think it does. I I think you
know we're in a little bit of a position
in in venture capital that we've created
ourselves and um I have a fundamental
belief that there's three core things
that we need to do. One is I think we
all have to be AI native as a firm and
the companies we invest in and I think
VC firms are really well positioned
there. The second is we're looking more
and more at inorganic growth and rollups
in every single investment that we do
and we're working with our CEOs and our
boards to focus on inorganic growth. I
actually think private equity firms have
an advantage there. And then the third
is liquidity. I mean we've all talked
about this a lot. We have not rec
returned the liquidity we should have.
And I actually think that a lot of
crossover investors, public market
investors are constantly thinking about
liquidity and they have an advantage
there. um which I think makes it really
interesting that between VC firms with
our AI native um skill set, private
equity firms and their inorganic growth
and a lot of crossover investors in
their liquidity. I think it's a bit of
an open field in terms of who are going
to be the winners in the next era of of
technologydriven investing. On your
second point I find interesting too and
and I'll pose this to you because I I
know that some of uh General Catalyst
deals you've been involved in inorganic
growth to borrow Raj's uh phrase here.
Are you seeing more of that? Yeah. U so
one of the big themes the as Raj was
saying around rollups is everywhere over
the last 40 years we offshored for labor
arbitrage you're sort of bringing that
back with AI productivity. So you sort
of think about um you know a lot of the
business departments think about legal
services or accounting or HR or call
centers
we've essentially taken AI teams and
we've gone and we've been buying call
centers and law firms and accounting
firms to say let's go transform them and
make them AI native. So I do think that
transformation opportunity there is
pretty substantial as the world figures
how to adopt AI into you know our
overall business processes.
I'm here. Yeah. I think that uh in a
different way if you if you go back to
you know early venture capital in
America if you look at for example
Arthur Rock Vendrock and then you look
at how Apple was founded with Mike
Marula and small check um and kind of
people very close to the product
building the product getting it to a
point where there was some level of
product market fit with a small amount
of money. M uh over time that changed
because um during the dot um kind of
explosion um you needed a lot of money
to actually build a company you know I
remember the company that I built at
that built at that time you know we
spent tens of thousands of dollars on
compact servers and tens of thousands of
dollars on Oracle licenses all of which
are basically free now if you were to do
that and I'm talking you know that
amount of money and early 2000s of
dollars so that whole thing changed. But
instead of money being rationalized with
compute power and capability that's
needed, the money got redirected to this
notion that you can just overspend and
buy the market. And there were many
venture capitalists who, by the way,
this is not a comment on whether it was
right or wrong. It's just a statement of
fact. Um, funds like Andre Horowitz came
up with the strategy of let's overfund a
company. let's give them so much money
that it becomes very very hard for
competitors to keep up with them. Let
them go and buy distribution channels.
Let them do those types of things.
I think that that is all turning back
around and I think that the you know on
the defense side uh a lot of my work has
been focused on this area called
hyperwar where the idea is that the
decision action loop shrinks so quickly
that war becomes instant and autonomous.
So observe orient decide act that
shrinks down to nothingness and human
decision-m eventually reduces from that
loop. And I've you know over the last 20
years been thinking a lot about that.
But strategy is strategy and sometimes
there are parallels in business. And I
think in venture capital what's
happening is that that observe the
opportunity observe the market identify
the opportunity decide on what to do on
the strategy to uh follow and then act
execute. All those four elements, the
military parallel in building a company
is also now AI enabled and is also can
be augmented by a venture firm. Mhm. So
in some senses what we've done over the
last 15 years with hyperwar and the
military uh Steve and I often talk about
that same type of thinking this kind of
super automated everything minimal
amounts of money rapid PMF and
everything digital as much as possible.
Um including figuring out how to do that
with hardware companies. Those to me are
the innovative elements in how venture
capital can can look a bit different and
that it might open the door. These types
of techniques we may fail that the types
of things that we're trying to do may
not work but I think they will and if
they do they will open up the door to a
more efficient way of building
companies. uh giving entrepreneurs a
little bit more time because the more
money you throw at them uh in some way
you also steal from them their longevity
because the expectations that you set
for them are then too large. So the
emotional issues and all of that that I
was talking about they all compound uh
and it becomes this kind of strange
mess. So sometimes that leads to
failure. How can you apply this new
model and avoid those failure scenarios?
So it's a very analytical approach. It's
not it's not a uh it's not just what I
think. We're actually trying to debug
the process and find in this venture
machine what are things that can be
slightly tweaked and optimized with the
latest technologies that we've been able
to learn over the last few decades.
Yeah. I mean I I I I think what you're
saying is really is really interesting.
I mean, I think uh
one of the things that we've been
thinking a lot about is just how do we
kind of structure as like just really
drive a lot of structure into as much as
of our business as we can just sort of
like automate all the things that we can
automate so that you have a lot of
freedom to think and to be able to move
quickly and sort of you know pivot it
quickly because things are moving so
fast. And I think, you know, I I really
admire the way that Palanteer built
their business. This whole concept of
kind of the forward deployed engineer.
They essentially, you know, went out and
sort of built products. They were a ser
people thought forever they were a
services company and then all of a
sudden they turned around and they had
software products that they were, you
know, very locked in. And um, you know,
I think the same is true a little bit in
in almost every area right now. I mean
uh in in AI in particular I think as
large enterprises I mean I think what
Himmont's doing you know as far as
actually buying companies and and sort
of AI them is super interesting. Um but
you know for for our companies really
being able to sort of fund them to go
out and do some of these big lighthouse
customers and and build with the
customers um is is really going to be
the the way of this wave. Um we kind of
need to be doing the same thing. So
that's what I mean like trying to sort
of automate as much of our business as
we can. And then also I mean one thing
that's sometimes a little
counterintuitive and in venture we're
all, you know, everybody thinks you just
want to move fast, fund things quickly,
you know, just move fast. Strategics,
they're just, you know, they can be a
headache. Don't bring strategics. I
mean, I think we have to really listen
to strategics right now and customers
right now because we're we're hearing
those needs in real time and being able
to sort of feed those back into our
portfolio companies into our thesis, you
know, is really critical because they're
the ones actually adopting uh AI in real
time. Raj, how are you integrating that?
I mean, when I think about, you know,
space economy, which is a big focus of
your fund, I would think that some of
the strategies that Dana was just
talking about, and Amir, I think that
would fit with yours as well, wouldn't
it? Yeah, I mean, I I think absolutely.
So, you know, a few things. We as a
global fund, we still invest about 80%
in the US. We still think the US is one
of the best markets to invest in,
especially when you get to a lot of
these frontier technologies, from space
technology to some of the defense
technologies. We're not far away from um
Manhattan Beach and Elsa Gundo which has
a great defense tech um ecosystem. Um so
it's um I think fundamentally for us we
think that while the US is still the
primary place that we invest in, we are
um we are believers that they're great
companies that are going to be built
outside the US. But our view is that a
lot of those great companies are going
to sell into the US market. And so we
still want to stay US focused and US-
ccentric. Um and but you know my I've
got a partner um who's based in
Singapore who's really building AI today
not for B capital Capital but he's
building AI to transform the companies
that we invest in. Um when we heard of
uh you know you you you may have heard
of him. He he started a company um
before Facebook uh before we we started
B Capital and he was reasonably
successful in that and his view is that
private market investing is just
fundamentally broken and that the future
of private market investing is not
passive venture capital investing but
it's actually buying businesses,
integrating them, transforming them and
building bigger businesses. And the
struggle with VC right now is we don't
build businesses that are big enough for
IPOs and for acquisitions. We've got to
we've got to fix this ourselves. We have
to build bigger, better businesses
through roll-ups, through AI
transformation. And that's what it's
going to take to get out of this
situation that we're in with a lack of
liquidity. I I am curious about that and
particularly something you said a little
bit earlier, Dana, about, you know,
exits and the idea that you've got one
company on the tarmac that just kind of
waiting. I mean, it's one thing to
prepare them for that exit process, but
once they actually do exit, I mean, your
job doesn't end there. I mean, you're
pushing them. It's almost like you're
pushing them into an environment that I
would think in many cases is going to be
more challenging as a potentially public
company as opposed to a private one.
Well, listen, I mean, we're we're big
believers in following founders in that
sense. And so, I mean, in in, you know,
the the in the case of uh this portfolio
company, Mountain, which is filed
publicly, so I'm not saying anything
that's not um I mean, you know, the
founder's ready to go. I mean, he is
like he's he's the one pulling and um
and you know, I think he's sort of like
yeah, the the the market is what it is.
I mean, I I I know my business. I can't
control the markets. Um I can control
what I can, you know, what I can
control. I can build a great product or
my customers and uh and you know, he's
he's So, I think it's it's interesting.
You're you're right. Our job doesn't end
there. Sometimes we stay on the board,
sometimes we don't. But we're you're
kind of always an informal adviser or
adviser once you've you know worked that
closely with a company. But um but look
I mean I think founders really we again
we sort of back and and and track the
founders and if that's what they really
want to do and they want to and they
want to go for and go public great in
the case of one of our portfolio
companies Scopely which um exited uh
last year. It was a gaming business
which the founder decided he really
wanted to sell and he actually did
something super interesting. Sold to uh
Savvy Games which PIF actually created
Savvy Games um to build the gaming
industry in KSA and and uh and bought
Scopely. He he really preferred to
continue to build that business as a a
private entity and they and they've
absolutely continued to build that. they
just actually uh acquired um Niantic or
you know Pokemon Go and are continuing
to build there and two of my partners
are actually still on the board there.
So again it's I mean I think it's
continuing to just really be on those
journeys and and take a very long-term
perspective. Do you though and I'll pose
this to you Hmon for for those companies
that maybe are championing at the bit to
go public and maybe running up against a
roadblock like like Mountain and Mark
Douglas I mean what do you tell them?
How do you counsel them? Do you just say
just stay private, don't worry about it
or what do you do to talk them off the
ledge? So I think the the venture
ecosystem um to me breaks down into like
three categories of companies. There's
the very best ones. So so that I would
sort of put you know SpaceX or Stripe
which we're big investors in companies
like that that actually want to stay
private for a very long time. Uh and you
know these these companies are very very
large at this point. Uh but they want to
compound in the private markets because
they can be more agile. But there's a
secondary market there. Shareholders can
get liquidity if they want. So it sort
of functions like a uh it's like the the
the private magnificent seven or eight
of these companies. Data bricks is
another one. Open eye is another one
right and and they they have they can
actually function uh with all the
benefits of uh public companies because
they're they're good. They're at scale.
They own their categories. Then there is
a second tier of companies which uh you
know uh are very good companies end up
being very good return but do have to go
public uh and there maybe their markets
aren't as large and they do need to go
sort of go earn the trust of the public
market investors get capital and scale.
So you know I would put like some SAR
which we took public two years ago in
that in that bucket. um you know and and
and all the ones that are waiting right
now that we want to sort of push out
into the into the public markets. Then I
think there is this this long tale of
companies that are like in order to go
public you really need to be about a
billion dollar business growing 30% a
year so you can get the right investor
base and and be on a compounding
trajectory. But there's a lot of them
that get to like a 100 and they're
growing 15 20%. They have nowhere to go
and and that's the industrialization or
the maturation of our industry that's
happening. And what we have to figure
out and we've been innovating in this
area is how do you get these companies
which are some founders life's work
important business plays an important
role uh to be able to compound in the
private markets and create liquidity for
uh shareholders in the private markets
just like in other industries that does
exist. You have access to you know
private credit and tools like that to be
able to do this. Our industry hasn't
really matured to have that kind of
financial apparatus that needs to get
created uh to you know break this log
jam of gazillions of companies that are
collectively in the venture ecosystem
that have nowhere to go from a public uh
IPO perspective and frankly are too
small for the big tech companies to
acquire because they've all become so
large
and you know just to comment on and so
Hoth and I are in a another working
group or discussion group, whatever you
call it, about this. And um you know,
fundamentally for this to happen, these
are a lot of these companies are
invested with a whole slate of VC firms
that are investors in them. And so what
we have to start thinking about is how
do we roll up and combine these bucket
three companies um and build companies
that are not just scaling at 15 20% but
by getting the scale by rationalizing
the salesforce and the go to market
motion we can get their growth back up
to 30 plus% growth because we all know
there's just a huge difference in the
exit multiple when you get to that 30%
plus growth and you could show that it's
repeatable that the go to market motion
works and it's sustainable than exiting
these companies at these 15%
um growth rates where public market
investors one don't give it attention.
We've moved to passive market investing.
Um we're not going to get the analyst
coverage. So we're all better off if
there's ways we can work together to do
this. Yeah. I mean it is interesting
that we talk so much about IPOs. I mean
and you know I think that is for most
founders um true like disruptor founders
right when they start something they are
aiming to actually fundamentally change
an industry I mean they're not they're
not looking to be acquired by someone
they're looking to displace them um and
and then more right and I think now I
mean in this current environment you
know as far as the opportunity to build
and then actually move into adjacencies
and truly build you know I think
generational companies exists now more
than ever But you know as I mean the
reality is tiny percentage of companies
of ventureback companies go public that
like ever. I mean it's it's like 5%. And
so um you know I think the reality is
that the vast majority of venture exits
are M&A there. I mean one thing we
haven't really touched on is the fact
that in the last you know several years
the M&A market has been really stalled
be and that actually has been because of
the regulatory environment and and
that's something that is shifting and
and I think really positively shifting.
I mean I think part of the reason I mean
yes the hyperscalers are sort of too big
to buy some of these companies but but
also they just they haven't needed to.
They're like you know I'm going to get
reviewed from a regulatory perspective.
It's going to get hung up. I mean nobody
really wants to go through that process.
it destroys startups when you go through
that and then it doesn't get cleared.
And so, you know, it just really was
sort of this like stagnant market and I
think we're really starting to see that
move and that's a that's a positive
thing. Um, you know, and and I do think
that's just that's more typical of
Aren't there a lot more avenues out
there right now for I guess exits? I put
that in quotation marks. I mean
obviously IPOs were the most traditional
way to go and M&A to a certain extent
but you certainly seen in the private
equity and private credit space a lot of
uh let's just say creative ways uh to uh
return money uh without necessarily uh
giving up the company. Are you seeing
that? I think we're seeing some I listen
private equity had this problem more
than a decade ago. They solved it. They
just started selling companies to each
other um with the same still fundamental
LP behind it. It was an innovative
solution. I'm not sure it's a
sustainable one. It's not necessarily
the solution that I think we're all
going for, but we need to solve this
problem ourselves. We've done some
continuity vehicles. We've done some
secondary exits. Um, but to the point
that that Dana made, um, you know,
between IPOs and strategic exits, they
still remain far and away the way that
most of us exit in our portfolio. And
we've got to build bigger, better
companies to to drive those kind of
exits and returns. Yeah. I think in
general the secondary infrastructure
around companies that are expected to
not go public for many many many years
uh just doesn't exist and that creates a
lot of problems for everyone for
founders looking to retain talent for uh
early stage investors for sometimes
founders themselves uh and even though
there are a few you know companies that
are trying to hawk people's um uh equity
in in private companies there's no
standardization as to how that equity
was issued and what roofers and other uh
issues that equity comes with. So it's
basically, you know, something that
can't be traded until the company either
sells or goes public. And that was okay
if you know you're going to wait 5
years, but if you're going to wait 14
years, then that's that's definitely a
problem. That problem needs to be
solved. Yeah. I just want to remind the
audience too, if any of you have
questions uh for any of the four
panelists up here, just use your QR code
and submit them. uh and I'll relay them
uh to the guests uh as soon as they come
in. I I do want to talk a little bit
here more broadly just about innovation
uh and that pipeline of innovation.
There's been a lot of concern uh that
you're not necessarily seeing the same
amount of startup activity, the same
amount of entrepreneurship. We can
ascribe whatever reason we want to that.
But is that something that worries you
at all that maybe we're just not seeing
that same initiative that maybe we had
20 years ago, 30 years ago? Amir, what
worries me is uh this is probably very
politically incorrect. I I I'm not sure
how it'll be taken, but what I what I
found is that over time uh the the folks
that came into the software industry,
the technology industry in general, most
of them came in because the industry was
paying really well. And it wasn't that
these were the Steve Waznjaks and the
Bill Gateses who, you know, woke up just
wanting to code or build a build a a
computer. A lot of these were guys that
were and gals that were driven by just
the desire to be like them to achieve
the ultimate monetary goal, the success
goal, not necessarily the I built this
and look it it it works and it's it's
it's a machine and you know all of the
sense of pride that you have in the art
of the thing. So, so what happened is
that there's a large influx over the
last 20 years of these people and I
think frankly in the COVID and and and
related time frame a lot of the cultures
in tech companies that were destroyed
were because of the companies themselves
pulling in more and more such people
diluting the culture of tech companies
to something that was not compatible
with the culture of a tech company. Now
those same people are if you look at
resumeumés those same people are you
know I worked at this big tech company
here and that big tech company there.
Yeah. But are you really a tech
entrepreneur? Are you really a tech
innovator? Are you dreaming about
motherboards and algorithms and B trees
and you know neural networks at night?
And if you're not then you're probably
not the kind of guy that wants to go
build a company. But the reason you want
to build a company now is because you
saw three of your friends build
companies and they made money. So the
same pull that brought people into the
industry and and diluted the quality of
the culture in the industry in in in
tech companies has in some sense
affected founder quality. This is just
my view. I may be completely wrong. I
don't have a scientific study. I may be
totally wrong but this is my very
strongly held view. And so that to me is
very off-putting. That to me is is very
off-putting. And I think that as an
investor, we want to filter that out as
soon as possible. Cuz it's not just
offputting to us as investors. It's also
a formula for a lot of pain for this
person that's coming in thinking that
they're going to be a founder with no
anchoring passion, right? that is so
deep and strong that'll help them
survive the travailes and tribulations
that await them. Are you finding Raj a I
guess lower quality pool of potential
founders? No. No, not at all. No, Dana,
are you? No. I mean, I actually think
what's so exciting right now is it's
kind of the opposite. like that that if
you're building something today and
competing I mean the the level of
technical talent that it takes to sort
of compete in AI companies in you know
companies that are truly sort of
disrupting this next this you know sort
of next major wave of innovation I mean
you have to be have to have teams that
are most technically talented in the
world in this subject matter and it's a
small pool and because they're going to
be able to attract the a talent in that
area and so that's what's actually been
So, uh, exciting. I mean, that's what
really drives me. I mean, two to one now
against air. Are you going to help him
out here and join his team? No. No.
Look, I I I I think, um, it's an insane
time. Everything is changing. You know,
you've got huge opportunity in robotics.
You've got I mean, we were talking about
this earlier. Everything Everything to
me is going through a transformation.
Even electricity. You see with the
utility CEOs, they're saying they're
going to grow 8 to 10% a year for the
next 15 years. So, so I feel like every
sector is embracing uh innovation and
there's an opportunity to do something
different. Like we're we're in our own
team, we're basically like well we can't
be experts in everything. We got to sort
of pick and choose a few of these areas
and go deeper because it's just I mean
it's just seductive. I mean the flow is
uh crazy right now. I think I think you
feel the same way. I I would actually
say I think it's the best time I've ever
I've ever seen to be an entrepreneur and
I think it's the toughest I've ever seen
to be a venture capitalist.
That's interesting. Well, I'm curious
then I mean that actually dubtales with
an audience question and that is kind of
about where some of these early
seedstage companies will actually be 5
to 10 years from now. I mean you've seen
what current financial conditions are
like, current economic conditions are
like and you know the failure rate of
early stage companies. Uh so that is the
question and I'll just verbatim is the
growing number of seed and early stage
investors where do you see them in the
next five to 10 years consolidation
new market entrance or are they just
completely bumped out is it investors or
founders I didn't
it says investors you can answer it
however you want Dana whoever asked in
the audience clarification now this is
the problem with a venture capital panel
we sort of all agree with each other so
um but Um, you know, look, I I think I I
mean, there there there will be a high
failure rate. I mean, there there always
is. I I think there there will be I
mean, but again, what at least we're
looking for and I assume all of these
guys there for too are extremely
talented technical founders who also
have a commercial like really strong
commercial go to market, you know, sort
of focus and uh and are just talent
magnets and that is there not very many
of those actually. I mean there are only
about 20 companies a year that go
public. I mean there, you know, if you
just think about it. So there may be
thousands that get funded, but there
just not that many that go on to be
truly generational companies. So yeah,
there's a high failure rate. Yeah. And
Raj, you said something, you know, this
idea that a good time to be an
entrepreneur, not necessarily a venture
capitalist. Another question is coming
in here and it's asking whether some of
these VC funds, not necessarily yours,
whether they've actually just gotten too
large and maybe that's part of the
problem. Yeah, I mean I I don't know
about specific firms, but I think our
industry has swelled and grown to a big
size. And it's not just our industry,
it's private equity, it's other folks,
family offices, other people who invest
in in our space. I think there's less
and less differentiation between many of
the firms. The reason I think it's a
great time to be a builder is I think AI
is u very akin to mobile and the cloud.
It's going to dramatically make the
experience of building companies
simpler, cheaper, faster. I think you're
going to see more solo GP, solo
founders. Um, I think it's an incredible
time to build a business and the kind of
resilience that you could have by
building businesses lean today is better
than I've ever seen in in my 27 years of
doing this. Um, I think it's really
tough to be a venture capitalist because
one um there's so many companies coming
up um and mo majority of these AI native
companies to your question I think won't
be around. Um it's not just that they'll
get consolidated or I just think they
won't be around. I think it's really
tough to pick who are going to be the
winners right now. Um I think there are
certain spaces like foundational models
where we continue to invest but in very
differentiated models that are very use
case specific and much lighter than than
you know the the big three or four
models. But I also think it's because of
this challenge of you know you've got
LPs who are demanding liquidity faster.
I had a great meeting with a LP this
morning who said don't worry it's not
just about liquidity it's only about
liquidity and I said thanks um really
appreciate the support and um you know
like the clarity but it's it's also a
profound of it's a time of profound
change in the way firms like ours work
and I'm fortunate that uh my partners
are builders and I think the way we're
approaching it is we're building a tech
company within B Capital that hopefully
is going to be a value ad partner to the
folks that we part in invest and partner
with and air I want you to address that
that last question too because what you
were talking about earlier about what
you're looking for in a founder it kind
of gets to this idea too that a lot of
VC funds you talk about this idea oh
people are just coming in they just want
to see how rich they can get I mean some
of that frankly is also coming from the
VC funds themselves they're making it
clear they just want monetary extraction
they're not trying to build 100% the VC
industry also grew too large and a lot
of the people that were brought into the
VC industry uh particularly at the
junior levels and as a fund grows larger
they only have those junior people. It
becomes kind of like a a consulting
company situation where the top founder
brings in the talent and then you know
those guys are dealing with relatively
junior people that may not have done it
before. This is just the the law of of
of how these things work and and I do
think that uh VC funds got too large and
that the the blame is to be shared. But
you know interesting comment made by Raj
I agree I agree completely that this is
the best time to build a company from a
technology perspective. If you're driven
if you are tech technologically minded
if you have a problem in sight no better
time than to do that. But if you look at
sort of the overall AI companies that
come to you and you look at what
percentage of those are a chatbot for X,
I mean that alone to me tells you what
the the bulk of people are trying to do.
And so that that that is not enough. So
for somebody looking for a lot of money
thinking that that's enough, what are
you doing? Mhm. So, so that's what I
mean when I say quality. I'm not saying
that you can't find people of high
quality to invest in. Yeah. I'm saying
that there's a flood of people that are
not high quality. And maybe that ratio
has changed because that ratio is now
being fed by people that were never
really into technology to begin with.
They were just about the opportunity,
the monetary opportunity. That's just my
feeling. All right. I want to squeeze in
a couple more questions before we run
out of time. I think this one is a good
one. is asking, "Has your appetite
changed for hardware companies with a
SAS component versus pure SAS and the
global supply chain influence?" Who
wants to take that one? Yeah. So, I
think um the regalization of supply
chains does present a really interesting
opportunity. You know, there's hardware
software. We don't really think that
way. I mean, I think I think you really
think about experiences. I mean, we've
built companies where you have the
hardware endpoints and you've got
software in the middle. But the more
interesting stuff in hardware right now
is about this sort of onshore
manufacturing and how that creates new
companies. So like just just last week
we launched uh we announced a company
called Slate. Slate is a uh $20,000
uh electric vehicle. Okay, fully made in
the US onshore the first time. And you
think about Tesla is it's way more
affordable than Tesla. So you can
actually have a mainstream electric car,
no frrills, pure hardware innovation
built off of manufacturing conglomerate
that's being built uh called rebuild. Uh
and I think that that renaissance around
these new products getting created is
something that's very exciting and and
uh for the US uh to compete with China,
I think it needs to invest in the
robotic manufacturing capabilities uh
over the next few years. So we are
closely tracking those uh category of
companies. And one of the things that
jumped out about me at Slate I mean and
I'll just pose this to you Dana was the
utility of it and so much we see so much
new technology so many products wrapped
around technology that for lack of a
better phrase I don't know why they
exist for my sort of purposes. But then
you see something like Slate and not
just a ju just to highlight Slate there
are a lot of other products out there as
well. you see the value in it and it's
not just you know the smoke and the and
the sparklers on top of the cake. Yeah.
And I think Slate is awesome.
Congratulations. Um but you know I going
back for one second on the hardware
question too. I mean I think as as
software fundamentally drives more and
more of kind of what used to be all
hardware. If you think about cars like
increasingly what was done in hardware
is done in software. Um I think that's
going to be incre sort of a a a trend
everywhere. So I I do think it changes
the way that we think about hardware may
change the way you think about
capitalizing some of these businesses,
but you know sort of fundamentally it
does change that. Um and and I think I
actually I mean you know again I feel
like we're such we're VCs we drink the
Kool-Aid of course but I think AI really
does bring like it is actually making
technology useful for us. Yeah. I mean,
if you think about using chatgbt, you
know, compared to even using Google
search and now Google, you know, has AI
results and everything as well, but but
it's so much better. I mean, it's just
like it is, right? I mean, but to point
too though, how do you sort of separate
kind of uh those companies, those AI
products that truly are useful with
those that are just kind of, you know,
like I said, chat GBT and some fancy
rapper. Well, and that's where I mean,
it has to be the technology has to work.
it has to be amazing but the user
experience has to be amazing. I mean the
reason chatbt is where it is is because
of the user experience right and so that
is the you know flywheel that they
started that has you know has has really
worked but I mean I think there aren't
very many of those products and that's
why it's like I mean I think Slate's
really interesting right like you when
you see something like that you're like
wow they thought about that differently.
Yeah, Raj, I'm curious for you like it's
if if somebody's pitching you and not
just necessarily on AI or chat GP, but
but really on any tech. I mean, how do
you ensure that what they're trying to
sell you is actually going to have some
real long-term utility and not and it's
not just sort of chasing the short-term
Fed. Yeah. I mean, I I literally have no
way to ensure anything. That's why I'm a
venture capitalist. But I I do
fundamentally believe that even with
chat GPT as as great of a product as it
is, I think the app layer on top and
that's this where chat GPT is going. I
think it's the app layer and all the
apps that are going to be built on top
of it that's going to drive the value.
That's where we're still focused on
investing. We think AI and healthcare as
an example is becoming it used to be
about 10% of where we invested. Now it's
30% of where we invest at B Capital. And
um it's profound the changes. Um Dr.
David Agus yesterday at a dinner I was
at was talking about how the shingles
vaccine um can prevent Alzheimer's, how
that was found out through using chat
GPT and um I think we're going to have
profound impact in areas like healthcare
and that's where we're going to um focus
more and more on over the coming decade.
We only have a minute left. Just real
quickly here just uh it's going to go
down the line. What's the one thing
you're most hopeful about going forward
in your world? Uh applied AI.
Dana, I mean intersection of AI in so
many industries. I'm here physical AI
embodied AI and physical systems. Raj, I
think uh the way that my three kids use
AI to um fundamentally both cheat at
school, but to to really remake the way
that they learn. I'm so impressed by
that. All right, I think that's a great
place to leave it. Really appreciate it.
All for you are really just a testament
to the fact that VC isn't dead. There's
some people really running it and
running it for the better. Thanks all of
them. Let's give a big round of
applause. Thank you.
