$1000 for a Bitcoin, the idea of ​​a
currency that escapes
central banks.
Bitcoin is trading above
$60,000 this morning.
We reached $100,000 on
Bitcoin last week.
[scream]
Somewhere in the world, a guy
nobody knows is doing something
nobody has ever done. He mined the
first block of Bitcoin and his name is
Satoshi Nakaboto. Finally, his name is
obviously a pseudonym, we don't know who he is
and we probably never will.
The thing is, when it came time to validate this
first block, he did something that
technically had no purpose. He is
writing a message. [music]
The front page of today's Times, the famous
British newspaper. The chancellor is
about to bail out banks
for the second time. This message is
now known as the
Genesis block message. Even before it had been
used once to buy anything
, Bitcoin had already served
another purpose: to send a message, a
message that no one could ever
censor. 17 years later,
Bitcoin is being talked about everywhere, its price, its
adoption, whether it is a
currency or a store of value, but
since then, it has been diverted and
tinkered with for ever more
inventive uses. We often hear that Bitcoin is
useless, that it pollutes, that it's
not a good currency, all that. Well,
in this video, we're going to go
against the grain. Bitcoin is a
fascinating invention if you know where to
look, and it has already changed the lives of
millions of people
around the world, but in many
ways you probably don't even suspect
.
Let's start with Texas, not with
oil wells or ranches, but with something
much more surprising: the
electrical grid. In February 2021, a storm
hit the state. In just a few days,
nearly 250 people died. The
damage is estimated at $200 billion
. This is one of the worst
climate disasters in the country's recent history
. At the heart of the problem is
Aircot, the operator of the Texan electric grid
. And at that moment, they
understand something. Their network is
sorely lacking in flexibility. When
demand explodes, they can't keep
up, and when there's too much
production, they don't know what to
do. The classic solution is to
build gas-fired power plants that only
operate for a few days a year
during peak periods. But it's expensive,
like several tens of billions of
dollars in investment. And there, he
tries something completely counterintuitive in Paris
. What if Bitcoin midpoints
could serve as a buffer? When you
think about it, it's not so silly. A
Bitcoin miner is just a big box that
consumes electricity. And
unlike a factory, it can be
shut down in minutes without
breaking anything, without
interrupting a production line.
The mechanism is rather elegant. It's important to
know that in Texas, nearly 30%
of the electricity mix is ​​solely
solar and wind power.
Low-carbon electricity is great. The problem is that it's
not stable. Sometimes we
have production peaks and sometimes
troughs. And that, on the scale of an
entire network, is a problem. When there
are production peaks,
Bitcoin miners are able to
absorb this excess. Lots of sunshine
in one day but not enough demand
because people are at work, oh well,
no problem. A Bitcoin miner
can plug in and not only
stabilize the network, but also
buy electricity that Simon
could not have otherwise monetized.
Conversely, when the grid is strained,
electricity becomes expensive, and mining
loses its profitability. The miners
naturally disconnect without being
asked, and the electricity flows
to where it is most vital.
When you think about it, the mining industry
is really very unique. It is the
first industry to absorb
electricity 24/7
from anywhere in the world.
While being able to adapt in real time
to needs. You don't realize it just like
that, but we know nothing like it.
For your information, aluminum plants have
roughly the same characteristics in
terms of electricity consumption. On the
other hand, an aluminium plant, well, that's
a huge complex of several square
kilometres that you can't just move around
as you please. And I'm not even talking about
the red tips which are unavoidable,
fléo and now directly from this
industry. Or, to be honest,
recently we also have AI
which has many points in common with
Bitcoin in terms of
last resort electricity consumption. But
nevertheless, Bitcoin miners are
starting to be integrated into
energy production strategies and the
stabilization of electrical grids.
And that's a fascinating use case.
Now you're probably familiar with the
Bitcoin pollutes narrative. It's warming the
planet. It will boil our oceans,
or even empty them. Except that it's not.
Today, companies are using
mining to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. [music] The
first example, and this one is
frankly counterintuitive, is
methane. In oil fields,
when oil is pumped,
gas is also extracted. The problem is,
we don't know what to do with this gas. It is
not profitable to transport it, nor to
store it, and we cannot reasonably
let it escape freely into
the atmosphere. So, we burn it on the
spot. This is called
flaring, and that's why you
all have this image of
oil wells with burning chimneys in your
mind. Except that wiping on
paper is all well and good, but in practice
it's dirty. Companies have to
burn this gas, but they are
not incentivized to maintain the installation
because it is obviously not profitable.
This means that a
significant portion of the methane that should be
burned is not actually being burned. Okay, so what
's the problem with methane? You
might say, well, it's about 80 times
more powerful than CO2 when we talk about the
greenhouse effect. Needless to say, this is
a major problem in terms of
global warming. And that's where Crusoé
Energie comes in. Their idea is simple.
Instead of burning this gas with a torch, it is
used to power
generators. These generators
produce electricity that
powers the BTC miners
directly next to the oil well.
The result is spectacular.
Controlled combustion in a generator
eliminates almost 100% of the methane
[music] compared to about 90% for
conventional flaring. According to a study by
433 Research, 1 MW [music] of
flared gas mining avoids approximately 9482 tonnes
of CO2 per year. To compare, 1 MW
of wind power avoids 1917. That's
almost five times better. Well, recently
Crusouwe sold his business to
focus on artificial intelligence,
but the proof of concept is there.
Bitcoin mining is an excellent
ally when it comes to reducing the
negative externalities of this
activity. But wait, because it's
not over yet. Unic, that is to say a Mor of
Bitcoin, so that's what we
call the machines, well it transforms
about 99% of its electricity into
heat. For years, this was seen
as a flaw. Now, some people are
turning it into a product. In Brooklyn, there is a
spa that heats its baths to 40°C using
BTC miners. While the customers
relax, the machines
mine peacefully. This allowed them to
make enormous savings.
[music] Others use biogas
produced from cow dung to
generate electricity, power
miners and heat water. And here, we
begin to glimpse a new,
unexpected use of Bitcoin:
heat production. We heat
water for showers, we heat
greenhouses to grow plants.
Wherever warmth is needed, a
Bitcoin miner could theoretically
fit in well. Well, it's still
difficult to use it as a heater for
your room because these devices
still make quite a lot of noise.
But solutions are already starting to be
found and in many
cases we need heat without having to
worry about noise. When a
device mines Bitcoin and therefore
earns you money while producing
heat, well, heating a
resistor the way we used to do it
traditionally seems pretty old-fashioned
, doesn't it? Okay, one last
little example before we close the
energy section. Africa has
phenomenal hydroelectric power,
except that the infrastructure there
is really very underdeveloped.
Basically, even if we manage to build a power
plant to capture this
colossal energy, we don't have the network to
distribute this electricity to the
population. And the power plant is running
idle. And you can see where I'm going with this.
Companies are installing BTC miners
next to these power plants. Mining and
buying back electricity helps
finance electrification and
network construction. As soon as the
electricity can reach the
population, the miner just has to
go elsewhere. And Bitcoin is not
only used for infrastructure, it also serves
human dignity [music]. It's
a kind of lifeline. Roya
Mabou is an Afghan entrepreneur.
[music] In 2013, she began paying
the women who work for her in
Bitcoin through her NGO. Because in
Afghanistan, at that time, a woman had a
very difficult time opening a
bank account. She often needs
a man's permission. Bitcoin, on the other hand,
doesn't need
anyone's permission. Some also use
Satoshi Nakamoto's invention to
flee with their savings. And that's
exactly what happened to one of
Roya's employees who managed to flee
Afghanistan with the fruits of her
labor, paid in Bitcoin. A phrase
memorized in your head and you can
cross a border without any
customs officer being able to freeze anything. No
papers to show, no gold to confiscate,
just 12 words. And beyond the conflicts,
there is also hyperinfection. The Venéa
is a textbook case in this regard. The
currency collapsed so much that at
a certain point, it became cheaper
to use banknotes as
toilet paper than real toilet paper.
Venezuela, Lebanon, Turkey,
Argentina. For these people, Bitcoin is
not volatile; it is their
national currency. So, we [music]
use other currencies like the
dollar for example, but as a result the country
and its citizens become dependent on
a currency that they no longer control at
all. And when you're in that
situation, Bitcoin is no longer an
investment, it becomes a
necessity. And speaking
of financial independence, if everything we've just
discussed makes you want to
take your first step into
the crypto ecosystem, you might as well do it
seriously. That's convenient, because the
partner for this video is
Coinbase. It's one of the
world's largest crypto exchange platforms and
if you're just starting out, it's probably the
easiest way to
buy Bitcoin and other cryptos
without any hassle. For
new subscribers who use our
link in the description, Coinbase offers €15
in Bitcoin to get you started after
your first purchase. It's a nice little boost
to get started. And for
those who want to go further,
Coinbase offers a subscription called
Coinbase One. From €4.99 per
month, you benefit from zero
trading fees on most cryptos,
an account protection guarantee,
boosted staking counterparty and
exclusive benefits on the blockchain
base. I've put the link in the
description, so don't hesitate any longer. When
inflation destroys the value of your
work, Bitcoin can save you. But what happens
when it's a
state that attacks you head-on?
Money is a political weapon.
To cut off someone's bank accounts
. The Bayonne region is returning
economically, and Bitcoin has already been
used to circumvent this. The story
begins in December 2010. Bank of
America, Mastercard, Visa, Western Union
and PayPal simultaneously cut off
Wikileak's funding. Not on the orders of a
judge, just under political pressure.
For the first time in
modern history, we are seeing private companies
shut down a media organization
without any court ruling
. On June 14, 2011, Wikileak
published a Bitcoin address to receive
donations. Satoshiamoto himself will
comment on this event. Wikileak has
kicked the nitroelon
and now the essin is heading
our way. For him, the network is still
too fragile for this advertising, but
it's too late. Bitcoin has saved
Wikileak, which will receive more than 4000
Bitcoin as a donation, while still being able
to give a voice to
whistleblowers from all over the world. And FYI
, Satoshi will disappear some time later,
leaving the keys to his invention to
humanity. This is the first use of
Bitcoin on a media scale as a
tool of political resistance and
incidentally the first
public demonstration that this technology can
survive and circumvent a
global banking blockade. Ten years later in
Russia, history repeats itself.
Alexe Nav's anti-corruption foundation
received 658 BTC between 2016 and 2021 via
a public address. To give you some context,
Alexier is a fervent defender and
opponent of Putin and the
Soviet regime. Obviously, this account and
those of his company were being scrutinized by
the public authorities. As with
Wikileak, Bitcoin has been a real
safety net for them. And this net,
it is also used far from Moscow. In
October 2020 in Nigeria, a
protest movement against
police brutality was growing steadily. The
central bank freezes the accounts of the
Feminist Coalition, the NGO that finances
the protests. Within a few
weeks, the organization switched to
Bitcoin and raised almost 10 BTC,
or nearly $400,000 at that
time. Bitcoin will represent 40% of the
donations received during the movement. Jack
Darcy himself will relay the information and
invite people to donate via
Bitcoin. Here we have three countries, three
different regimes, but three
identical mechanisms. You cut off the money, and they
turn the tap back on somewhere else without asking
permission. When a state cuts off your
funding for what you believe,
Bitcoin offers a way out. But
when it's just your family
trying to send you $200
from the other side of the world, that works
too. Remittance is a
colossal and largely invisible market. More than
$900 billion is sent
annually by migrant workers to
their families. One in ten people in the
world depends on these flows to live and
for decades this market has been
controlled by Western Union and Mongram who
have profited greatly from it. The average cost of sending
$200 worldwide is
currently around 6.5%. For
example, for a Filipino worker
who sends $200 a month to his
mother, that represents between $150 and
$200 in expenses per year. out of 1 billion
people combined, we're talking about
tens of billions of dollars
siphoned off each year. This is where
Bitcoin comes in, and especially
stablecoins, those cryptos backed by the dollar, like
USDT or USDC for example. In the
Philippines, transfers that used
to cost 6% via traditional gifts
now cost around 1% in
minutes instead of
days. In Latin America, where
crypto volumes jumped 63% between 2024 and
2025, more than half of the purchases on
exchanges in Argentine peso, Colombian peso or
Brazilian real are stablecoins.
And then there's Lightmor, a layer 2
of Bitcoin. [music]
In November 2025, the network will reach one
billion
dollars in monthly volume for the first time. The
average transaction has doubled in one year,
rising from $118 to $223. In other words
, Lightning is not for buying a
$2 coffee. It is used to send
$200 to your family in
seconds for a fraction of a cent.
[music]
The pivot happened in January 2025
when Tesor announced the native launch
of USDT on Lightning, the
world's most used stablecoin on the
Bitcoin network rails. [music] The
best store of digital value
combined with the fastest way to
transfer it. Through Stable Coins
and Bitcoin, tens of
billions in fees are
slowly, irrevocably slipping out of the
hands of the transfer giants and
returning to the pockets of families.
We talked about energy, human rights
and money transfers. But Bitcoin is
not just a currency. It is also a
public, global and immutable register. a
wall on which anyone can write
and which no one can erase. And
some have already used it for
things that have nothing to do with
money. For example, if we look at this
Bitcoin block, at first glance there seems to be nothing
abnormal. But on
closer inspection, well, actually, there's a
love letter. It is there, forever etched
in the marble of the blockchain,
and it will not move. If you want to
write a message that will outlive
any state, any
business, and any regime, then
put it in Bitcoin. And obviously,
it doesn't stop at the message of love.
Peter Tod, one of the developers of
Bitcoin Core, created Open Time Stamp. The
concept is super elegant. You take
a document, any document, a
patent, a thesis, a contract,
proof of paternity, proof of idea, it doesn't
matter. You calculate its H and
record it in the blockchain.
As a result, you can prove that on a
specific date, the document already existed
in that exact form. All this without
revealing its contents. [music]
Dotteres, patent offices,
universities can already
use this mechanism. And then there's an
even more specialized but
fascinating use case. Bitcoin as a
true random number generator. Look at this. The
problem is so serious that Cloud
Flir, which secures about 10% of
global Internet traffic, has made it a major
attraction. In the lobby of
their headquarters in San Francisco, they
installed a wall of 100 lava lamps that were
filmed continuously. The chaotic movement
of the wax inside is used to generate
encryption keys, but this
method has a flaw. Chance
is private. No one can verify that
Cloud Flir is not cheating with the
images. We must trust them.
Having a true source of public randomness
is one of the most
difficult problems in cryptography. For
example, the
1969 US military draft lottery that decided who
would go to Vietnam has been proven to be
biased. Not out of malice,
just bad design. The capsules
containing the birth dates
had been mixed up incorrectly.
Researchers have demonstrated that
Bitcoin block headers provide at
least 68 bits of entropy every 10
minutes. In concrete terms, this means
that there are approximately 300 billion
billion possibilities, which is more than
the number of stars in the Milky Way
multiplied by 1 million. To manipulate
a draw that relies on Bitcoin, one
would have to attack the network itself,
which would literally cost
billions. Today, Bitcoin is
probably the most unmanipulationable source of public chance
ever devised by
humankind. And the icing on the cake is that it
continues to produce a
verifiable random number every 10 minutes without being
asked. We've just covered
a pretty good range of the somewhat
exotic uses of Bitcoin, and as you might
suspect, there are plenty more.
None of these uses are making headlines.
None of them carry much weight compared to the $2 trillion market
capitalization of
BlackRock ETFs or the debate on the
next US strategic reserve
. But they all tell a story
that the price doesn't. On
January 3, 2009, Satoshi wrote a
phrase that technically had no
purpose in the Zero block. He did it
because he understood one thing
[music] from the start. Bitcoin
was not just going to be used to
transfer value, it was going to be
used to transfer what value
represents: time, work,
memory, ideas, and sometimes
freedom. If Bitcoin has already been repurposed
to do all this in 17 years, while we are only just
beginning to explore these
use cases, we have the right to
ask ourselves one thing: what will it
look like in another 17 years?
[music]
