[Music]
Hello and welcome to the latest episode
of the Perry podcast which is a bit
different today. I'm not as usual being
joined by my colleagues but here to
introduce you to a very special bit of
audio captured at the Perry Europe Forum
which took place in London this week.
Now, if you could not join us, you may
be experiencing FOMO for all kinds of
reasons, but perhaps mostly for missing
a rare and exclusive onstage interview
with Bruce Flatt, CEO of Brookfield
Asset Management. An interview led by
PEI's editor-inchief of real estate,
Jonathan Brass. It was standing room
only as Bruce shared his insights on a
range of subjects. And over the next 35
minutes, you can hear what he said.
Listen in to this unabbridged interview
which covers his predictions over
private markets growth, his attitude to
risk, the impact of trade tariff
volatility, and why he believes today's
real estate environment is a place for
making really easy money. It began with
Jonathan asking Bruce about the growth
of the business since 2010, the last
time he took to the stage to share his
views with Perry's audience. At that
time, Brookfield had just raised $5.5
billion for the real estate turnaround
consortium, capital raise in the wake of
the global financial crisis to invest in
distressed real estate. That vehicle was
a nondiscretionary club and Jonathan
wanted to know if it was this innovation
that set the business on a major growth
trajectory.
back in uh in 2010, I remember asking
you a question uh from the audience to
gauge your comfort raising so much money
in this sort of atypical non-traditional
basis where you didn't have discretion.
But you know what you told me then?
You'd said investors were retrenching.
They're worrying about the issues they
have in their existing vehicles and uh
that prompted you to try something a
little different to the classic blind
pool coming. Would you say it's a
stretch to suggest that that little bit
of innovation there at that time is a
major reason you have a $270 billion AUM
real estate business today? So look, I
think uh taking care of clients capital
and being innovative and trying to meet
their needs is the number one thing we
all have to remember we're here for
every day. Uh those that manage capital
for others. And I guess there's some
things we can do today we can still do
because even though we're large but uh
we can't do everything like that. We
can't have we have to have some sense of
pools of money where they're discretion
to us uh like our big fund we just
raised and we raise them for each of our
different businesses. But Jonathan, I'd
say what we try to do with our
institutional clients that are larger
that have the ability to do it is to
continue to create bespoke things that
meet their needs. And probably the
biggest thing that's happened over the
last number of years is we have a big
fund, but our large clients want to have
capital that they invest beside us. And
so by creating either SMAs that are um
discretion to us that we're investing on
behalf of people or co-investments from
big institutions, it allows us to I I'd
say just offer things to people that
most they can't get most other places.
And that I think probably the thing that
a lot of people forget about is that
every day we're here to serve our
clients and we need to make sure that
the things we do service them. And um
when we started off 30 years ago raising
money from institutions, I don't think
we understood that. We sometimes we all
forget that. But every day we try to
learn more and uh I'd say that's the the
number one thing in client service
management. Yeah. Well, I'm glad you're
talking about your clients. I guess you
would probably also refer to them as
your customers and it's the bedrock of
why you do what you do. Um, if we fast
forward to today and I'm thinking about
some of the stuff you said back in 2010
and comparing it to today, obviously
you've got your discretion now. The fund
series is irrefutable of success, but
there are some striking similarities
when we think about the tone of the
moment. And you know, maybe it's the
denominator effect. Maybe it's a lack of
distribution. I'm talking real estate
specifically here from existing
positions. Investors have had a hard
time justifying fresh commitments to new
vehicles. Yeah, you guys bring in 15
billion plus and you're talking about
co-invest and sidec cars. The number
might be much bigger than that
eventually that that invests alongside
the strategy. Let's unpack the why
performance is relative performance
going to play a part. Is there something
else though? What else plays a part? You
know, I look I think there's a couple of
things. Um there are not that many large
global real estate institutions back
then. There were 10 um before the
financial crisis. There were 10 large
sponsors. We were one of the 10 probably
in the lower part of it. If you fast
forward today, there's really only two
large sponsors in the world. So if you
have large amounts of capital, you want
to deploy it, you want to put it on
global basis and you want to do it with
people that have been around a long time
and have a track record, you don't have
that many choices. U that's one. Two, I
think the environment is similar to
then, but it's very different um right
now in the financial crisis. And I'll
just use an example because we're
sitting here in London. Uh we were
involved at Canary Warf. Lehman Brothers
as you know all know went bankrupt.
Their building emptied out and we had a
million square ft vacant overnight. Uh
and that happened around the world in
every financial market. And while the
mindset over the past number of years
was that people went home and all office
buildings were vacant and all retail
nobody was ever going to go to that.
that wasn't actually the facts. So the
the fundamentals today in real estate
are really strong. After the financial
crisis, the fundamentals were not
strong. So I think that's the big big
difference and why I agree with the
presentation a second ago is that the
fundamentals of real estate around the
world are actually very good. What's
wrong today is that there are many
capital structures which aren't built
for the current rate environment or the
financing leverage that's in place and
therefore that's actually the
opportunity. The opportunity is to and
what we've been buying in our big fund
of late is buying properties that have
excellent fundamentals
but that are overleveraged or I don't
mean overleveraged they're just leverage
is not built for the current interest
rate environment. Therefore, it's really
easy to make money. It's hard when you
have to go build an office building or
take all the risk to lease one or build
industrial brand new or hotels or
whatever you're going to do. When you're
just buying completed real estate with
fundamentals that are strong which are
almost fully leased, it's really easy.
You just strip the capital structure and
do a little bit of work and you're you
can make a 20% yield. Um this is easy
money. So today is a really easy
environment to to make money in real
estate, I would say, versus many other
cycles, including the financial crisis.
This is way way way easier. The risks we
took then versus today are far far less
today. Yeah. Yeah. Well, listen, I I I
hadn't planned on asking this question,
but I think you provoked me. I've got to
go off piece a little. Um, you know, you
talk about fundamentals in place, talk
about existing assets versus having to
build them. the contrarian view if you
look at that remember that slide that
harm put up there with the one person in
the auction room and now I'm thinking
about offices I'm thinking about
Brookfield and you know couple of years
back you essentially chasing a narrative
you don't want to be the canary in a
coal mine on offices at least in terms
of um deception but am I reading through
what you're saying that actually this is
pretty opportune time to use some of
that opportunistic dry powder you've got
to really lean back into this space well
most of what we've been buying is multif
family in the US and I I'll come to
Europe in a second but uh I'd say 80% of
what we bought in the big fund uh so far
has been multif family because multif
family was the lowest cap rates the the
most financed and at the lowest coupons
and it was the it was the sexy play to
buy during co so everyone bought it and
over financed it we sold I think $15
billion worth of apartment buildings
multif family during During the COVID
period, what we've been doing in the big
fund now is buying multif family. And
the story is just really simple. They're
75 80 85% leased. We can buy them at 6%
yields. We can we can get them leased up
to 7 1/2 or 8. We can finance them at
five. And uh you can earn 8 n% cash
returns which grow over time and you can
easily earn 17 to 20%. And do very
little work and take very little risk.
So, we're buying from open-ended funds
that are uh needing to liquidate, and
we've been buying from over financed
borrowers that need assistance. Yeah.
Yeah. And I suppose critically as well,
given, you know, this foggy environment
we find ourselves in, you can truly
believe and underwrite the secular story
behind the requirement for residential.
It's there's greater demand generally.
It's just about dealing with the in
place business plans. Yeah. I and I
would say on just to your office
comment, we we don't really buy office
in our opportunistic funds because
office takes a lot longer time to mature
and we never we never ever want to be
caught in limited duration funds. That's
it. We don't want to miss the cycle. So
we tend to stick to student housing
uh multif family industrial things that
we can turn over quickly because this is
a buy fix operate and sell game as
opposed to in our permanent capital
structures sometimes we buy the
opportunistic stuff the money's on a
timer. I I get that. I get that. Okay,
let's uh let's switch gears a little bit
and talk about the role of real estate
in the wider institutional portfolio
these days. I love this question. I ask
it quite quite frequently but I want to
hear your perspective here. What what do
you feel is the primary function now for
real estate in the portfolio in your
kind of perennial quest to match
investor liabilities? So um when we
started out what we went to investors
and said is you should invest in private
markets because it will you'll earn a
premium over liquid markets. um you can
be directly invested in things and the
distractions of the public markets will
not confuse you with the value of what
you actually own. And I think probably
more importantly the latter point, yes,
you earn more. Yes, there's many other
reasons to be in private markets, but
the single most important reason to be
in private markets is that you do not
get distracted by a public market
volatility for the value that you own.
And if you buy an industrial building
and it earns a 7% yield and you you work
it really well and you have it for 10
years and you keep owning it and all you
do is look at the asset every day. You
look at the cash flows and how it's
doing. If it trades in the public
market, it can go up and down by 20% a
week. Tariffs get announced and it goes
down. In theory, the asset went down by
20%. That is terribly distracting and
nothing happened to your asset. So I
would say most importantly what's
happened over the last 20 years is that
because of the passivity of markets and
the indexing
um the volatility has increased and
therefore private markets are more
important today than ever it balances
out and I I guess I would say the
leading institutions of the world today
have 50% of their assets in private. I
think 25 years from today, all capital
that's not needed for liquidity purposes
will be in private markets. There is no
reason to have it in the public markets.
They don't act properly. If you need
liquidity, be in the public markets. If
you don't need need liquidity, be in
privates. You'll earn more and you'll
know what you have. And I think it'll
have taken us 50 years to get there. But
I think this is not going back. When you
say all capital, are you including other
forms, retail, other types of money
getting into private markets? Yeah. So,
look, I think uh on balance 50% of
institutional money cuz probably on
balance 50% is needed for liquidity
purposes cuz sodum funds don't have any
liquidity, but uh pension funds and
other things do. Um we're just
scratching the surface today at private
wealth. So, 401ks in the US, savings
accounts, etc. for retirement. And uh I
see no reason why it's at 2% today. I
see no reason why that won't be at 30 to
50% 25 years from today. Because the
only thing that's different today is
that uh what we have to do is to create
pools of capital that can accommodate
private individual investing. That's
harder to do because of the liquidity
issues that are demanded by uh
regulatory agencies on private wealth,
but increasingly we're fig we're all
figuring out how to do that. So I think
it probably won't get to the same extent
cuz regulations over time will loosen,
but they probably won't loosen to the
same extent. But I think it's going to
increase very exponentially and as you
know that's where a huge amount of money
is in the world. Yeah. and and I and
obviously I look at we track your
business very closely and we know that's
not lost in you and I I have questions
later on in my list here to talk about
managing these different types of
capital and the dynamics that you have
to contend with with that. Um I think
you're preempting me to go straight to
it now. So it's obviously well well
known that you're also an insurance
business now. you acquired a number of
them and um you are also in retail
capital perhaps to a lesser degree but
it looks like perhaps outside of
institutional you straight institutional
you're managing insurance money and
looking for reasonable places to deploy
that to through your various networks of
asset classes. Can we talk a little bit
about what that what that does for a
business such as yours when you get to
managing all these types of money that
are as you say going to ultimately
dominate most illquid acquired capital
sources? What what are the profound
effects of a business like yours? So
firstly our our goal of our business has
always been have as much or more capital
than anybody else. Be able to do things
therefore that are larger therefore uh
eliminate as much competition as
possible in going into transactions.
operate them well and um run businesses.
That's the goal of the business to be
able to do that. Today we built our
capabilities to accomplish this. But we
raise 5060 billion of institutional
money a year 25 billion of retail wealth
and we sell through our insurance
business which is all backed by our own
uh balance sheet capital about 25
billion of annuities a year. These are
fixed annuities. So we're just paying an
interest coupon to people for their
retirement savings. So we have a we
raise about 100 billion a year that gets
deployed into our large funds into
separate accounts or into credit across
the board. And increasingly what we've
been doing is building out the skills to
be able to deploy all of that capital on
an effective basis. And all I'd say is
that every uh pool of capital based on
regulation and risk and reward has
different types of things they're
looking for, but fundamentally they're
all looking for the same thing. they
want to take obviously well you want low
risk and high returns but uh
fundamentally there our insurance
capital is I'd say more tilted towards
lower risk longer duration cash flows
and uh more creditlike returns whereas
our institutional capital is more
opportunistic in nature and uh looking
for higher returns and those are the two
I'd say and we have everything in
between and so we're increasing ly
seeing Brookfield the lender in the real
estate space. Yeah, look, I think
probably the one of the most exciting
things in real estate right now is that
we both in our secondary solutions
business for real estate and all of our
other for private equity infrastructure
etc. and in our even in our main funds,
we're assisting other sponsors
liquidate assets or deal with issues
that they have in funds. So, we're um
assisting them recapitalize a fund.
That's a business that was nent 10 years
ago. It's was increasing 5 years ago.
Today, it's becoming much much more
significant. Partly because when you
have a trillion dollars of stuff, can't
do everything yourself, right? And um
therefore being able to put capital and
assist other media I'd say medium-sized
sponsors deal with issues they have and
provide capital to them is an
increasingly large business for us
because uh what we have is the ability
to raise capital and knowledge of
industries and be able and like picking
transactions we can pick sponsors. Yeah.
I'm gonna I'm gonna touch on a couple of
the things you mentioned uh just now.
eliminating competition definitely
bringing giant pools of capital sources
like this a very different animal in the
investment universe but of course
there's no such thing as a freelance
either and you you start to as you and
you mentioned yourself you're now
leaning towards more highly regulated
areas with the insurance businesses I'd
agree with retail capital too that's got
to have a profound impact on your let's
say attitude towards risk as a business
another one of my favorite questions is
tolerable risk versus intolerable risk.
As you sit here today, what do you feel
are the tolerable risks for your
business given all this money and
different complexion of money you're
serving and maybe throw in an
intolerable risk too? Yeah. So, um,
look, I'd say we have uh 2500 investment
people, 300,000 operating people. We
operate in 30 countries, trillion
dollars of assets, 250 businesses.
That's a lot of stuff. Something goes
wrong. something goes wrong or good or
bad every day, every morning, every
hour. But um what's really really
interesting about this business, and I'm
not sure I would have concluded this 35
years ago when I started at Brookfield,
but as we get bigger,
the businesses we buy and the people we
get with them when we buy them and the
platforms we can acquire are better as
you increase with size. Therefore, the
risk you're taking as you go larger and
the counterparties you deal with are way
easier and way better. What's amazing is
the risks keep going down. Like the
counterparties we used to deal with 25
years ago and the counterparties we deal
with today, you know, are the latest
transactions we've done. Intel, uh
Microsoft, Amazon, like the uh Nvidia,
uh you can go through the list of the
counterparties we have. They're amazing.
So, the credit risks we're taking are
far far less. As you scale up, this gets
It's never easy. I'm not suggesting it
is, but the risks you take seem to get
less. Let me play devil's advocate for a
moment, though. I knew you would. I have
to. We're putting on a show here after
all. Yes, you mentioned all these
household names. Well, the chances of
something going wrong is now, you know,
somewhat mitigated by how solid these
businesses are.
However, if something was to go wrong,
you're at a trillion dollars now. I
mean, dare I say you're systemically
important? Yeah. I The only thing is I
think um even though we're big, um we're
in 30 countries, what our amount of
capital compared to the markets we're in
is dimminimous, very dimminimous. Yes,
we're a large player in real estate or
infrastructure or power, but these
markets are the three the the three big
businesses we have are infrastructure,
power, and real estate. And um those
three businesses are that they're the
backbone of whole global economy.
They're the largest businesses in the
world. Therefore, our capitals are
relevant to the system. Like yeah, I
think we're really it's it's important
and we're trying to contribute, but it's
not of any scale. It's systemic. What's
more, I'd say the the risk we have is
some of these parties are Goliaths and
they dictate terms and if we're not
delivering something to them, you're not
dealing with a small company. When
Microsoft calls you and says you didn't
perform, it's a problem. Therefore,
you're dealing with very large
companies. So, the attention to detail
and the ability to make sure we perform
for them is really, really important.
Yeah, that makes sense. That makes
sense. I have to ask about political
risk. I mean, given the environment
we're in right now, where does that fit
into today's equation? Um, we sit with a
month ago on the 90-day tariff
suspension. I think about what this
episode is doing to global connectivity
and I see central banks as well now even
they're diverging with the treatments of
their base rates. So, how does a global
asset manager like Brookfield reconcile
with a deglobalizing environment in
which to do business? So we own build by
the backbone of the global economy real
estate infrastructure or renewables
largely some private equity businesses
but largely what we do is we go to a
country we put money into the country we
sell goods or services to people in that
country what we don't do is move goods
over borders so tariffs I'll start out
by saying tariffs don't really impact
most of our businesses on a primary
effect therefore probably I have there's
less impact to us and we have less of
view than others because we're not
impacted as much by tariffs. Having said
that, what I would say is these things
come and go. If you look back uh you
showed the 20 year or 30-year chart of
one of the stock markets up there, but
if you put a I put a 40-year chart in
our shareholder letter the other day,
which was the S&P 500 for 40 years. I
only picked that because it's just known
by everyone. No one can debate it. If
you look back at it, every single period
of time when there were deviations in
the markets, it seemed like it was the
worst that ever occurred. What's evident
by looking at a 40-year chart going back
is that they were irrelevant in the
history of the financial markets. And I
think that's going to be true today. So,
I would say we're not too concerned
about tariffs and all the things that
are going on. This will get sorted out.
Yes, some businesses will lose, some
countries will lose, but on balance, the
world's going to be fine, and we're
going to sort ourselves out, and it will
be different than it was before. There's
no doubt about that. And we need to pay
attention to it. But in the fullness of
time, what's really, really important in
business is going to good countries,
investing with good people, and
investing in good businesses, and
holding for long periods of time. Yeah.
Yeah. So, it's going to get sorted out.
A lot of um folks who sitting in chairs
like yours, some are they can't help but
wanting to get involved in how it gets
sorted out. I kind of get a sense with
you that you'd rather keep an arms
length sort of safe distance from the
political world, the regulatory world,
and you basically operate within what's
being said. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. So,
I I look, I only have I've only had one
job for 35 years. That's Ron Brookfield.
I I don't intend on having any other. We
keep to what we do and we're apolitical.
So the cards get dealt, we deal with
them. Look, as you get bigger and you
have businesses that are affected by
countries, you have to observe and be
involved, but um we try to stay out of
the fray. Yeah. So I promised uh our
audience can have a chance to ask a
question here. Uh do we have any takers
to that offer? One in the front behind
you. One sec. Hi. Thanks, Bruce. Those
were uh in inspiring words and thanks
for um you know clarifying the where
where you are in this current market. Um
I I'm curious you've gotten so large. Um
you know we hear this about the other B
quite a bit. How do you um kind of
refrain from just buying into buying
beta when you become such a large buyer
and seller in the market over time? You
have so much capital put out. Can you
really be you know savvy about buying
about finding value?
So I look I think um these are really
really large businesses real estate
infrastructure renewables and uh I think
the markets are very inefficient because
of passive indexing and because of um
just all the conditions that are on many
investors in the world. So even though
we have sizable amounts of capital, I
can tell you I look at every single
transaction that we do. I go through the
investment memos, they're all pretty
valuebased. And uh so I don't know some
someday look are they as are are we as
good as a local sharpshooter in an
country in a city uh that develops
something? Probably not. But
increasingly
uh either we're buying we're doing
something because of the size of our
business therefore we get advantages
because of that or if we need that local
expertise what we're doing is we're
partnering with that company or
individual and we're giving them capital
to be able to facilitate that
transaction. So we try to have a balance
of I'd say our our business today is
balanced by providing money to
entrepreneurs or other sponsors in some
form or way to be able to take advantage
of the local markets and using largecale
capital to buy for value. Um so I you
know on balance we're doing that. I'd
say where things get very lots of
capital is going towards it sometimes we
just have to stay away and you know the
one example I give is for a few years
data centers were highly sought after
and therefore a lot of capital was going
towards them and there were not very
many platforms for doing it and
therefore we stayed away for a while. We
then bought a lot of them and we're back
today again just because of the new uh
the size of capital that's needed in the
um AI buildout. Okay, so we have another
question here in the front
using
right in case the uh the audio didn't
pick that up. Uh the question is um how
are you uh uh adopting or or using AI in
your investment processes?
Where does it play a part at this point?
Uh three things. One, uh we're among the
biggest builders of uh data centers
today in the world. This is and
increasing it's going to be a bigger
business. Um and it fits all of people
always ask me is it is it real estate,
infrastructure, or power? And it's all
the above. Fact is and and there are
different types of it for different
types of uh funds. Second, if I leave
you with anything on AI, it's my
observation is it's early early stages,
but do not miss it. So often I think to
myself, did I miss it and therefore uh
or should I pay attention to it? The
fact is you haven't missed it, but you
better pay attention to it. So we are
paying attention to it. Yes, we're
building all of those things. The
benefit we have of being a large-scale
business is we have 250 businesses and
we're sharing intelligence across them.
The last thing I'll say is the real
money the the obvious money is made in
the technology businesses. The real
money is going to be made in the
application
of artificial intelligence to real
businesses which therefore reduces the
costs or increases the revenues and we
may see margin increases in many
businesses not by 2% or 3% but by 50 to
100% because of artificial intelligence
and and I think that's part of the
reason I'm optimistic is underlying what
we see in our businesses as that happens
over the next 10 years the productivity
advances and therefore profit
enhancement is very significant coming
and um so we see that underlying thread
of what's going on right now so I'd say
what's going on in the tariff stuff all
this stuff is is shortterm what's going
on in the fundamental long-term of
business with artificial intelligence is
almost gamechanging for what's for
fundamental as a business how I Leave
with that. Yes, I think that is a f a
great full star. Bruce fly everybody.
[Applause]
So there you have it, a very optimistic
Bruce Flat whose long-term prognosis for
the real estate markets should have
everyone reassured. Flat was not alone
in his outlook. The Perry conference
reflected a clear sense of optimism. On
stage, panels reflected an increasingly
active investment market, huge demand
for many types of real estate, and
reports of fundraising experiencing a
reboot. Offstage, the feelings were
mutual. In an audience poll, 60% said
they felt positive about the months
ahead. To hear a breakdown of why there
was so much optimism, tune in next week
when our editorial team will be back to
share their insights of the key
takeaways from this 2-day event. Thank
you for listening.
