really excited to focus on performance
measurement today. Uh this is the kind
of vital niche function which looks at
the single most important in investment
management which is uh performance. When
I speak to people in performance
measurement, it it's rare that I maybe
someone says you know they've had a
lifelong dream to to work in performance
measurement. It's uh it's often quite
serendipitous how people wind up in the
performance measurement function. I also
view it as a bit of a secret way into
Wall Street. Uh so uh I'm sure there'll
be some good opinions on that in the
conversation. So what does the future of
performance measurement look like? Are
the job shifting from develop to
developing markets? I get that question
a lot and uh and you know we had a a a
conversation uh about uh this particular
topic in San Diego and if you work in
the performance world you know the
answer and there's no doubt that the
reliance on developing market has grown
significantly over the years and I think
the trend will continue uh uh over uh
next few years uh and one of the clear
advantage that the um the developing
market has is a time zone differences.
We're seeing more and more functions uh
being distributed globally particularly
routine reportings, reconciliations,
controls which are increasingly
centralized in a lower cost centers. So
but the but at the same time I I really
want to emphasize that the shift doesn't
like it it's not diminishing the role in
the develop market.
>> It it it basically redefineses it. The
future of performance in is going to be
more strategic. Um and the automation
and offshore support and uh uh and to
take over the repeatable task and the
the value add in for a develop market is
from the oversight the interpretations
and stakeholder engagement and
translation of data into insight for the
front office client and regulators. So
in in my personal opinion I don't like I
don't think it's a displacement of a job
but it's the evolution because the this
this model for the global asset manager
is becoming more global more
collaborative and more integrated with
the business decision making.
>> The audience is asking what skills
should you focus on developing to work
in performance measurement. is essential
to focus on strong technical skills
>> um and a solid understanding of the
concepts behind what you're calculating.
So on the technical side, mastering
Excel is a must. I mean, you'll often be
working with large and and sometimes
messy data. So being comfortable with
things like advanced formulas and pivot
tables can improve how efficiently and
accurately you work. Um, as you grow in
the role, I think skills like SQL or
even Python can help automate reporting
or pulling in data from different
sources.
Um, while I don't see Excel going away
anytime soon, um, there's real value in
being open and curious about new tools.
Maybe about 10 years ago, I was tasked
when I was in industry with having to
write a one or two page summary
um
on the drivers of the performance
uh that would go to the board and the
CEO
uh every month. And that's not really
something that a human being has to do
anymore. Um AI can do that and it's and
it and it's it's been done for a few
years now. what is the transferability
of skills from one asset class to
another? Uh, for example, I run
performance presume equity, but that
likely won't allow me to get hired as a
performance analyst or a fixed income
manager.
>> The transferability of skills is it's
definitely a relevant question, and I
think it's it's something that I think
maybe some people um might struggle with
a little bit when they're thinking
about, hey, do I, you know, can I move
from one asset class to another? Um,
I've been in fixed income all my life.
I've had those thoughts, too, right? um
you know would that be a relevant uh
thing for me to do? I think as as
Jennifer mentioned, you know, in her her
response, I think as long as you have
the foundational knowledge of
performance and and you understand the
concepts of how uh what things drive
returns um in one asset class, I think
they're, you know, they're definitely
relevant for different asset classes,
whether you're going from equity to
fixed income or you're going into the
private markets, alter alternative
assets. I think those skills are um you
know, you know, knowing that financial
knowledge will really help you in those
roles. I think something I would
recommend is if you're you're
interviewing for that type of sit, you
know, situation where you're trying to
change um asset class or becoming, you
know, in charge of a different asset
class. I think it's important for you
just to to be able to demonstrate that
you understand that um and that you
understand the new asset class and how
that would translate to what you're
doing today. I think that would give
you, you know, the person that you're
interviewing with, right? Um some good
sense of of your knowledge of that. So
yeah, I think it's for sure you you know
you can take it across asset class and
it gets a little bit maybe trickier on
the attribution side. You might need to
know a little bit more uh detailed
information about the asset class
specifically if you're trying to you
know present attribution and and um in
that situation. So but yeah I I think it
it's definitely something that that can
happen and really does happen often.
What does an employer look for in a
potential candidate for a performance
management role assuming they have no
prior experience?
>> The answer is is has evolved over the
past 8 to 10 years. Right? So I I you
know if you were to ask this of me 10
years ago, I would have a different
answer. The the the typical you know way
to get into it might have been okay,
let's see, you know, someone has a math
degree, maybe a finance degree, right?
They've got some, you know, they've
taken a couple classes on the markets,
capital markets. They've got a a very
naive foundation there that that's
that's pretty good to start with. um on
the soft side, you know, the soft skill
type component of it. It's, you know, we
look for people that are very
inquisitive, people that have um are
very critical, great skills from a
critical thinking standpoint, uh the
proactiveness and some, you know, you
can ask questions and you can kind of
get get an idea if someone would would
be a good fit. Although it's it's hard
to to kind of make a decision in one
interview, but you know, you can you can
kind of be guided there. Now that was
let's say that that's 5 10 years ago
where
>> we are have evolved to today is the same
soft skills are important right no
matter what role we're looking to hire
in I think in terms of the knowledge
base that has tended to shifted a little
bit more to the um you know the data the
data science umbrella
>> excuse me
>> so what kind of fits under there right
you know being able to analyze data
programming um or or quering large data
sets Jennifer alluded to that. Um, data
visualization tools,
>> machine learning, Excel, I mean, it's
funny, Excel is the best performance
system in the world, but it's it's not
meant to be a performance system, but
everybody use it for everything from
from, you know, to-do lists all the way
through, you know,
all kinds of crazy macros and things
like that. So that that's where our
focus is really more has been more
lately within the last few years on that
data. You know, what is someone's
experience? We're not even
>> it's going to be hard to get someone
with performance experience, especially
coming out of school. They're not going
to have that, right? That's fine. We
look at our performance teams when we
bring somebody on and we've got pretty
strong regional performance teams where
those teams can teach a new hire
performance. and within the performance
space those topics right ideally if they
pursue a CIPM that's what we want people
to do or the CFA designation you know
they can get a better foundation there
but we can teach the performance
it's sometimes harder to teach the data
analytics and and the querying data sets
and things like that that's a little bit
harder to teach
>> Jennifer I'm curious what success
stories you've seen over the years as
someone lateraling into performance
maybe as a second or third job uh after
I have seen career changers come into
the space. So people who came in from
somewhere other than financial services.
So Jeff mentioned you know looking at
the the data analytics skills or the
data scientists. I have seen individuals
move in you know with a strong
programming background and they can move
into the performance measurement space
with uh zero experience. Um because
again you have that CIPM program or you
have um mentors on staff. Um
and I do think moving from fund
accounting roles into performance people
are very successful to Sherog's point.
Um they already understand navs and cash
flows and reconciliation.
Um so learning return methodologies
etc is sort of a natural next step. Um
so I've seen I've seen very uh
successful transit transitions from fund
accounting roles. Uh I'd also say coming
over from the operation side because say
if you're doing trade settlement or
reconciliation you understand how data
flows through systems. So transitioning
to performance, you can bring that that
systems thinking um you're managing
complexity and timeliness and and that's
a good fit I think with with an ops
background.
>> Um
>> Jeff mentioned you know the difference
say between
uh a system running holdings based
attribution versus transactionbased
attribution. you know, there's a
difference there and the performance
team is likely going to have to explain
that. Um, and I've heard people say,
well, we just kind of eyeball it. But if
you have a good data grant, you you
don't have to eyeball it. You can get in
there and
explain the difference down to, you
know, a half the basis point.
>> What are the typical ways into a
performance measurement team at entry
level? The performance measurement has
become like increasingly uh specialized
uh from today are typically looking for
candidates who bring at least some
foundational knowledge whether that's
familiarity with the investment
performance concepts or gib standards or
general understanding of how data flows
from one point to the other uh
throughout the uh investment management
life cycle. So for those who are
interested in entry- levelvel roles
often come from the adjacent functions
like index operations, fund accounting
uh client reporting these areas uh
typically provides an excellent base uh
because they expose you to the core data
inputs like navs, pricing, transactions,
how the correction happens, error
corrections, the um
um corporate actions uh uh uh how data
recorded uh that feeds this information
feeds directly into the performance
calculations. So by just having the
knowledge of the other data point it
actually helping you to perform your job
as a performance analyst player.
>> In fact uh this was exactly my path. Uh
so I started as a fund accountant where
I was responsible for calculating a
daily navs and doing a reconciliations
throughout the fund. Um I was then given
a few performance related tasks and and
that's where my interest really sparked.
Uh as I said my company decided to
become a gibs compliant adopt a gib
standard. So that was a natural
transition into the performance. So, so
initially to gain a deeper understanding
uh
and uh move fully into the performance
so I pursued the CIPM designation and
that actually helped me bridge the
technical and analytical side of the
role.
>> So for those who are starting out, I
recom I personally recommend that go
close to the data.
>> Yeah. understand the system that you're
working with and uh like and and don't
hesitate to pursue CIPM uh because it it
it actually signals your commitment and
your capability. You already have the
knowledge of the other data that feeds
into the performance. Now you just need
a additional knowledge the technical
knowledge of how as Jennifer Ped you uh
the the concept of performance how like
difference between IRRa when to use IR
when to use TWWR the nuances of the GIP
standard you know and there are some
some things outside of the and uh and
Jennifer would know that SEC marketing
rule for example
>> having those knowledge I think that that
really helps So uh you don't have to
have a performance background as long as
you have some found like foundational
level uh like foundations are clear you
you know the how the data is moving from
one system to the other uh in the
compensation.
