I'm delighted today to be joined by
Claire Brooke for the next episode of a
sustainability podcast series. Cla and I
have worked together for a long time in
the past, so know each other well, but
but for the benefit of the rest of the
audience, I want to start with a few
questions around CLA's um background,
career, and personal journey. And
starting with your background in asset
management. You spent 24 years in
sustainable finance really as a pioneer
in that sector from 1990 to 2014. What
are the key changes you saw in this time
and tell us a little bit about your
journey CLA?
>> Thanks Paul. Well I think in the early
days in the early 90s it was very naent.
Um it was then called green or ethical
investment and uh before the concept of
sustainability and then impact investing
came um companies were very surprised
that we were asking questions that
weren't uh directly to do with their
profits and and bottom line and so on.
And so we were greeted with some
surprise occasionally derision. And
gradually over the years that we were
working uh it became much more
acceptable that we were going to be
inval,
social and governance questions of
companies. and that these issues that we
were trying to
uncover
had real
impact on the the long-term viability of
any business. And so to give you an
example, when um you and I first joined
Aviva in 2000, I think only a quarter of
all Footsie companies were reporting on
their environmental, social, and
governance issues. By the time I left in
2008, it had gone up to nearly over 90%.
Nearly nearly all of them were. And I'm
sure now it's entirely normal for
companies to be reporting on those
issues. So um so it was a a very
exciting time to be working in the
sector for sure.
>> In 2014 you decided to leave a world of
impact investing. By then you were at
Web Asset Management, a firm you'd
co-founded to join an ocean conservation
NGO. What prompted that move from the
world of finance into uh the world of uh
NGO?
>> It was uh in a way quite a an impulsive
decision but um I think those who work
with me and uh my friends and family
know that I'm quite impatient. It's
probably one of my many faults. And I
think by then I was getting impatient at
the pace of change that it was possible
to achieve through sustainable
investing. And at the same time
all the indicators around climate and
biodiversity
were getting worse at a pace that was
happening much faster than than had been
predicted.
So for me it felt as if I needed to do
something more meaningful, more
impactful and I became involved with
Bluearine Foundation on a just one day a
week as it were via a great friend of
both of us called Cindy Ford. And as
soon as I started looking into what Blue
Marine were doing and were able to
achieve,
it just struck me as
hugely greater than anything that we
were able to achieve through sustainable
finance in in in terms of getting vast
biodiversity and associated carbon
gains. and and I think you'd done your
fair share by that point as well of uh
time in the finance industry and done
done your part from sort of really when
this was in its naent stage to actually
reaching a lot more maturity at that
point and since you joined uh you joined
obviously blue marine what are the uh
main objectives there what are you
trying to achieve and why we
particularly attracted to that charity
>> so bluearine had set up in 2010 off the
back of a film called The End of the
Line, which
really drew the world's attention to the
crisis in our oceans that was being
caused by over fishing. A lot of people
first of all don't understand
the crucial role that the oceans play in
stabilizing the climate and uh providing
food source for billions of people and
so on. Um, and they also don't
understand that the ocean can only play
these vital roles of providing us with
half the oxygen we breathe and absorbing
more carbon dioxide than all the forests
on land. It can only play these roles if
it's teaming with life. And what we've
been doing since the beginning of the
industrial era, but this is speeding up,
is draining the oceans of that life.
We're stripping it of life through over
fishing. So, Bluearine was set up to
directly challenge over fishing and
offer the perfect solution, which is the
creation of marine protected areas.
Because if you have areas of the ocean
that are free from from destructive over
fishing, fish populations and habitats
bounce back and that means that there's
actually more fish to be caused. So,
it's it's good for fishing communities
and it's good for marine life and it's
good for the climate. So, it's a massive
win-win. And the reason I was so drawn
to Blue Marine Foundation was that
although the charity then was very
small, it was achieving these huge wins
um persuading governments around the
world to set aside vast areas of um
marine protection. And so, uh, I I was
I I guess thrilled to have found a
charity that was achieving so much and I
I wanted to be part of it.
>> You've had phenomenal success since you
joined there along with uh replicating
your great success in assi management
and that the charity's grown 12 times
since you joined. So, it's not so small
anymore. And how did you achieve that
growth? We're now I think the biggest
marine focused conservation charity in
Europe. Um our turnover will be 13
million for the financial year just
ended. Um
I I achieved the well I achieved the
growth along with the fantastic people
who I work with. So very much a team
effort and I guess I I tried to apply
the same principles that I'd applied in
growing funds under management at the
various places we'd worked including NBI
and Henderson and and Aviva.
And the principle there was that if you
have great performing funds that are run
with high integrity and are delivering
what the investors hope that you'll
deliver to them. Um then more and more
investors are attracted to put their
money with you. And the same principle
applies to donors for a charity that if
you're achieving a lot of impact and
delivering
even more than you promise your donors
um then they will want then they'll want
to give you more money and more donors
will want to give you money and so the
whole thing sort of develops its own
momentum. It's it's a snowball effect if
you like and the more money that comes
in, the more projects you're able to do,
the more impact you achieve and so you
get into a kind of virtuous circle.
>> Given the importance, why do you think
marine solutions have received less
attention historically compared to
terrestrial approaches like tree
planting and forest preservation? Is
this simply down to the science is less
understood and we understand less about
oceans or do you think it's beyond
beyond that challenge?
>> It's partly that it's that the ocean has
always been vast and mysterious and
quite inaccessible.
We we know more about planets in our
solar system than we know about some
parts of the ocean. There are 2,000
species being discovered every year. um
the the deepest depths of our ocean
remain inaccessible. It's also quite
hard to
measure and record life in the ocean
because it moves around. It's very um
hard to kind of uh find it to uh
determine exactly how much is there and
and how it all works. So that's a
challenge that scientists are
brilliantly overcoming but only through
technological developments that are
taking place all the time. And then
there's the fact that the ocean is is
out of sight and out of mind. Um so for
a lot of people, even people who live
near the sea, they have little
perception about what's going on under
the surface. So, it's really up to us at
Bluearine and we, as I say, we were born
a for film. We use a lot of media assets
to try and educate people and enlighten
people about what's under the surface.
But we're thrilled that a film has just
come out last week on the 6th of May
with David Atenburgh. It's possibly
David Atenburgh's greatest film so far.
It's called Ocean and I would urge
everyone to see it because it's
remarkable.
But what this film does is reveal
so much about what's beneath the waves,
about the life in the ocean and how
important it is. So that's providing us
with with kind of rocket boosters as far
as our mission is concerned. I haven't
seen it yet, but I'm looking forward to
watching it. He's got an amazing
coverage and profile already from such
an icon in the sector and moving a
little bit to the challenges and
optimistically the opportunities in
marine conservation markets and actually
I I do know Atabru is very focused on
the the hope of for the future as well
as the challenge we're sort of facing.
So looking at that, what's your
perspective on how effectively marine
ecosystems can recover when protected
and what scale of protection is needed
worldwide to achieve that? So I I'm
hoping you can give us a note of
optimism in in your response.
>> The really good news is that marine
ecosystems recover faster and better
than anyone realized. So as soon as you
place these areas under protection, life
starts to bounce back. And having been
involved in a few areas now that have
been protected in the course of the 10
years that I've been working at
Blimarine, I I've seen that happening
which is completely thrilling. So to
give you an example, uh at Blue Marine,
we were quite instrumental in helping to
get Ascension Island in the middle of
the Atlantic. Um we helped the community
there to declare a marine protected area
in their waters, which is an area nearly
the size of France in the middle of the
Atlantic. And before it was protected,
the waters were heavily fished by long
liners which where you have 80
kilometers of baited hooks. So that
catches a lot of tuna which is what
they're after, but it it's also
completely indiscriminate. So it catches
sailfish, marlin, swordfish, seabirds,
sea turtles. you know, the the by catch
would make you weep to see. And so that
area has now been completely closed to
fishing, which is wonderful. And um as a
result, life is bouncing back, not just
within the area, but is spilling over
into the rest of the Atlantic.
And on the beaches of Ascension, they
have one of the largest populations of
green turtles in the Atlantic.
And this nesting season that has just
gone, my colleagues went out there and
and worked alongside the wonderful team
that is helping to monitor and and kind
of rake the beaches so that these
turtles can safely nest. And they
counted more nesting green turtles than
has been seen since the 1970s,
which is just completely wonderful, you
know, really winding the clock back to
before over fishing started to happen in
earnest. So there are there are so many
examples of that from all over the
world. So in other words, we know that
if you protect the ocean, it can spring
back to life in the most wonderful way.
To your second question of how much
needs to be done at the moment, only 8%
of the ocean is under any form of
protection. A lot of it quite
ineffectual
and only 3% of it is properly protected.
And we've committed globally through the
global biodiversity framework to protect
30% of the world's ocean by 2030.
And 196 countries have signed up to
that. So we we basically need to
increase the amount of ocean protected
by 10 times which is obviously a huge
challenge.
So how do we go about doing that? Um
there are quite a few pieces to the
jigsaw which are completely crucial.
There's political will is the number one
thing. That's why we're all heading down
to the United Nations Ocean Conference
in Nice in early June to try and
persuade as many countries as possible
to protect 30% of their waters. But
there's also a financial element to all
of this. And at the moment, the funding
gap needed to get to 30% of the o ocean
protected is estimated at between 9 and
12 billion per year. Now, that sounds
pretty huge and unattainable,
but if you think that $25 billion was
spent on the Elizabeth's line in London,
um I think about 200 billion is being
spent upgrading
uh a railway highspeed 2 in the UK. And
meanwhile, we're spending at least 20
billion a year on harmful subsidies in
over fishing. So once once these figures
are set into context as to how much it
could benefit the world to have a third
of the ocean protected and how much
we're spending on other things. I mean I
I haven't even thought about how much
we're now going to be spending globally
on defense, but it would dwarf what
needs to be spent on ocean protection.
So ocean protection is is relatively
good value. It's incredibly effective.
Unlike protecting forests in the midst
of a climate crisis as we now find
ourselves, there's no danger that they
will burn down. So it it has permanence
and it's highly effective. Can we bring
it back then to the role of the sort of
investors we have on the listening to
the podcast today? What what's what's is
the role of finance in a achieving the
30 by 30?
>> It's a rapidly evolving area. So you've
got investment in uh protection
technologies for example satellite
monitoring uh alternatives to plastic
alter uh fish that are actually bred in
the labs rather than wildcourt some very
exciting developing areas. Then you've
got uh things like blue bonds and debt
for nature swaps that can mobilize large
amounts of finance to countries that
really need to
develop uh develop their protection
targets and some very good initiatives
are happening right now in Barbados and
the Bahamas for example and in parts of
Asia. Then you've got uh blended
finance, insurance innovations, things
like a coral reef bond.
I think the important thing that we at
Blue Marine are trying to do all the
time is match the actual need, the
conservation need on the ground with the
expectations
of wouldbe investors.
And I think the difficulty you have is
that investors obviously want low risk
and incredibly high return.
And
that can't always be delivered if you're
talking about the protection of
biodiversity.
Why is that? Because fundamentally
we don't value nature correctly in in
the world. We we don't ascribe a
sufficient value to all that nature does
for us and how incredibly awful it would
be if it wasn't there. So we don't we
don't look at the upside and we and we
definitely don't sufficiently examine
the downside risk of losing it all. So
be that as it may, you know, that's
that's a challenge for the world to try
and value nature correctly. But all that
we can do in the conservation world at
Blue Marine and the other organizations
that work in this area is try and match
the best possible financial solutions
that can have the most impact in terms
of actual protection of biodiversity
and actual sequestration of of carbon.
And so we've we've been working on that
at Blue Marine for a long time. And
where we've arrived is to try and
develop not carbon credits but
biodiversity credits in our largest
restoration project that we work on in
the Solent. And so we're working on a
very exciting
structuring and and leveraging of
philanthropy effectively in the creation
of these high integrity biodiversity
certificates.
>> On that topic, are biodiversity credits
or certificates a more scientifically
robust and higher integrity alternative
to carbon credits?
>> It's an interesting question. And it
depends obviously what you're after. I
mean, we're we're in the middle of a
climate and a biodiversity crisis. So we
we need and in the ocean the two are
very symbiotic. It's because of the life
in the ocean that uh that that
the carbon is absorbed as it was. So we
we need to be doing both.
Uh cover markets have lost quite a lot
of their reputation in the last couple
of years and there was a lot of
criticism lodged at the integrity of the
projects that they were supporting and
also whether the money raised was
actually going to the communities
adjacent to the projects.
So,
we're trying to work on something that
will be both scientifically robust but
also bring direct benefits to the
community around where we're setting up
these these credits
that won't lead to uh the answer to
everyone's prayers in terms of kind of
doubledigit returns. So, that's what I
mean about expectations. I think um you
know pension funds or any wouldbe
investors need to understand that the
higher the biodiversity impact
you're going to have to modify your
expectations around return.
>> What do you envisionage for finance
either macro or micro in accelerating
marine conservation? What more could we
do?
>> There's so much more that can be done. I
mean on the macro level we have bonds
and debt for nature swaps and so on
which are really done at a governmental
level. So that requires concerted
political will and and international
cooperation.
On the micro level, I'm really
interested in the idea of creating a
whole generation
of people who work on ocean conservation
and protection
rather than what we've seen
traditionally, which is people earning
their money through exploitation of
biodiversity.
So if you take the example of St.
Vincent and the Grenardines in the
Caribbean.
This uh these islands traditionally had
uh a lot of whaling and uh whole
communities were earning their money
from uh from catching and and eating
whale meat. Now they've started
obviously to be inundated with tourists,
but the problem is that a lot of the
tourists aren't really contributing to
the local economy, particularly the ones
that arrive on these massive cruise
ships. So if through uh you know if you
like ethical as well as well as
environmental considerations
we're
hoping that these communities will stop
whailing then they need alternative
livelihoods and those alternative
livelihoods could be things like rangers
to monitor the whole new newly protected
marine areas. uh park rangers. There are
wonderful mangrove parks that visitors
can be taken to. Uh snorkel safaris and
dive safaris and coral reef restoration
and drone operators. There's whole new
livelihoods. But it's very important
that the people visiting the island
engage in that process and support this
alternative economy so that these
livelihoods can thrive. And so how can
asset owners be then pension funds,
institutional investors,
um sovereign wealth funds integrate
nature-based solutions into their
sustainability portfolios and sort of
linked to that? What stops them doing
it? And what can we do to make it easier
and get through those barriers?
>> If I knew the answer to that question,
I'd probably be really famous. So I wish
I knew the answer to that question. I
think it's about, as I said, needing to
put a different value on nature and and
how we collectively do that at a time of
political discord
is is very challenging.
I think one one thing we're noticing at
Blue Marine is that increasingly
corporates, companies are stepping up
and filling the void that governments
have left by withdrawing their support
for climate and biodiversity
initiatives.
And we're we're finding
an increasing number of companies that
are willing to commit at least 1% in in
some cases 10%
of their net profits to supporting NOS's
in in their fight to try and protect
nature. And that's incredibly
heartening.
And then you've got things, you know,
initiatives in finance like the task
force on nature related financial
disclosures, TNFD, which I think now has
over 500 organizations as part of it.
You've got global recognition on the
importance of in integrating
nature related considerations into
decision making reverberating
around
banks and major corporates which is
encouraging. You've got organizations
like ARA, the Ocean Risk and Resilience
Action Alliance, which is provided
conduit between governments, private
issuers and investors to stimulate the
creation of high quality finance to
deliver impacts for the blue economy. So
there are lots of people working very
hard in this area to deliver the finance
that that's needed. But as I say, we're
seeing
a a decline in political will at the
moment um overall and and that makes it
a pretty challenging environment to be
operating in.
>> Sorry, I've got another difficult
question to follow that up with that at
around the challenging area of
impacting. How do you measure impact and
accountability? And how does Blue Marine
Foundation approach measuring the impact
of marine conservation projects?
>> But that's not so challenging because we
think about that all the time because as
I said before, if you're going to
attract more people to donate, then we
what we are in the business of
delivering is not a return, not a
financial return, but impact. And so we
have thought about it very hard. We've
produ we produce an impact report and we
measure our impact. We call it KIS. So
key impact indicators and those include
square kilometers of ocean placed under
protection. Square kilometers of ocean
that is was nominally protected but
wasn't very well protected. So placed
under improved protection.
numbers of community members engaged and
uh launched into alternative livelihoods
as I was describing which then secures
that protection for the longer term.
Numbers of politicians who we've managed
to engage because of political will
being so important
members of the general public who we've
managed to reach. Uh children who we've
managed to reach. You are clearly very
exciting, rightly so, about Sir David
Atinburgh's sort of ocean film. Um, and
you described as a game changer. Um,
why? Why do you describe it as a game
changer?
>> Well, several reasons. I mean, first of
all, because it's him. He's the most
respected conservationist in in the
world, and his voice is so amazing. Even
though he's 99 years old, he's still got
a wonderfully
strong and and melodic voice. And he he
sounds so reasonable all the time, even
when he's talking about some of the
things that are happening in the ocean,
which which are really enraging.
And so having his voice to describe both
the beauty of the ocean, but also the
destruction that's being wreaked on it
is incredibly helpful for our mission.
And the most exciting thing about the
film is that they've managed to get
footage of a bottom troller and what
what is actually happening when that
goes along the the ocean floor. And it's
it's so shocking to see it. And even
though we've been talking about how
destructive bottom trolling is at Blue
Marine for the last 15 years, having
this actual footage is so powerful. And
we can show that to politicians,
obviously the general public, we can
show it at the EU. You know, everyone
who has it in their gift to stop this
disastrous practice from going on in
marine protected areas is going to be
seeing this footage. And I think that's
going to bring about a revolution in the
way that the the sea is managed and long
overdue.
>> And I'm sure a lot of people are
interested to know more about Blue
Marine. And how can those who are
interested get involved and support the
initiatives and support Blue Marine?
Well, we we've got a website
bluemarinefoundation.com.
So, do have a look at that. There's a
lot on it at the moment, a call to
action to contact the Secretary of State
for the Environment about the issue of
bottom trolling. So, there's a handy
click through where you can email Steve
Reed. So we'd urge everyone to do that
>> and do watch the amazing David Ashen
film Ocean with David Ashen. It's now
available on the Disney Channel. So I
really recommend that life-changing.
>> Thank you so much, Cla, for all your
insights. It's been uh great to um
chatting with you. Thank you.
>> Thanks so much for having me on the
podcast.
