Every time we do a transaction and
provide a solution to a corporations, we
really get married to them.
Monovia is the biggest landlord in
Europe. We have close to 600,000
apartments and 1.5 million people are
living in our apartments. We have seen
significant interest rate hikes in
Europe and this puts pressure on all
real estate companies especially on the
valuation side.
>> We were able to deliver to them minority
equity um uh capital attached to
different parts of their portfolio at a
cost of capital that was in the mid-s
singledigit rate. This transaction
landed in the form of IFRS equity that
allowed them to optimize their balance
sheet by reducing the leverage.
>> With the Apollo solution, it was
possible for us to keep the assets under
our management and gives us the
opportunity to manage our balance sheet
with less pressure. we were able to do
was work with them over a relatively
short period of time to structure a
transaction that delivered to them
long-term lowcost equity capital
>> and we built up a personal relationship
beforehand which was very important
because in a deal like this is complex.
>> The first transaction that we did with
them was in 2023 followed by two other
consecutive transactions.
We work with the company to design a
solution that is really needed by the
company as opposed to selling a product.
>> We found working with Apollo they are
very much dedicated to to deliver
success. You need people who know what
they are doing. You need people who know
the specialtities.
>> Real understanding of the client need
that real understanding of the market is
what really makes our solutions
preferable. Polo is a very strong
partner, very powerful, reliable. You
can call them in the night, you can call
them in the day. Uh wherever they are,
they are available. We are not in a rush
to do a transaction. We understand the
client's issues and uh we design
solutions that are bespoke to the
client's needs. We believe Apollo is
well positioned to be a leading capital
provider for Europe.
