DCLI is a provider of chassis that helps
with goods moving across the country.
When you take a container off a ship or
a rail car, you put it on a set of
wheels, that's called a chassis. DCI,
with Apollo's help, has built the
largest chassis company in the world,
280,000 chassis operating in the marine
and the domestic space in the United
States. Dieselized chassis are a
critical component of moving those goods
from point A to point B and making sure
they end up at consumer's homes. In
April 2019, Hybrid Value made the
investment in direct chassis link or
DCLI. We really saw that there was a
shift to intermodal over time and we
wanted to take advantage of that shift
through an investment into DCLI which in
our opinion was the best placed company
in the sector to do that with. Another
opportunity that we saw was in Bloom,
which is a supply chain software
company. We really saw it as a hidden
gem whose potential just needed to be
unlocked. Bloom was never, however,
going to thrive as a small division
inside of DCLI. We thought that this
business should be separated and we
needed to free it and provide it its own
independent CEO, its own board of
directors, its own office to go out and
grow and really go and win customer
contracts as an independent startup
company. And this really gave Bloom room
to spread its wings as a standalone and
digitally native supply chain software
company. It enabled Bloom to grow
rapidly. One of the things that I'm most
proud of is that both DCLI and Bloom
helped keep supply chains functioning
during the COVID pandemic. Think about a
company that has effectively levered to
the global supply chain and co hits and
the world shut down. What I think
ultimately helped us is that we never
lost conviction and backing management's
growth objectives. And it's really as a
result of that that DCLI was able to
post record revenue and record EVIT
dodge. We helped the company acquire
30,000 chassis for growth. We signed
exclusive contracts with a bunch of big
box retailers. And we helped extend and
negotiate a bunch of key contracts. We
green lit over $850 million of
investments into new equipment and
improved equipment. DC lives partnership
with Apollo allowed us to grow the
company, allowed us to create a strong
capital structure for future growth.
Bloom pursued and grew its technology
platform, ultimately hired over 500
employees globally to pursue that growth
and really became a one-of-a-kind
platform in the supply chain visibility
space. Apollo's role was really to serve
on the board and challenge the
management team to bring an
entrepreneurial spirit and also an
analytical approach to our investment
decisions. By doing all that, the
company was positioned for a really
strong outcome at exit by having proven
its critical component of the
infrastructure and global supply chain
in the US and also proving out a growth
story that new investors could get
behind. DCI's partnership with Apollo
positioned us for long-term growth.
[Music]
