Please welcome Institute Chairman
Michael Milin in conversation with
Citadel CEO Ken
[Music]
Griffin. Ken, thank you for joining us
today.
It's an honor to be with you and it's
been a long journey since I remember
speaking at your office in Chicago many
many years ago.
So we started on Monday and we began
this conference with a series of
dialogues on Friday and Saturday on our
salons about the American dream and
about the commitment to make sure it
endures for our children, our
grandchildren, but may maybe even more
as an ideal for the rest of the world.
and I can think of no better individual
to culminate this year's global
conference. Obviously, you've built one
of the greatest financial firms our
country's ever had. Maybe one of our
most effective
philanthropist and what I enjoy most a
very serious thoughtful person on a
broad range of topics.
So I thought we might have the theme of
this
discussion course
corrections and therefore what are the
topics we should think about for course
corrections. Let's start with the
economy. We've seen a great deal of
volatility related to the tariff
policies. what is your outlook and what
is your solution to help us get back on
the current path?
So before we journey into that
conversation, I think all of us in this
room would love to give you a huge round
of
applause for your commitment to the
American dream.
So, are you ready to take on that very
simple question?
So, we'll go back to the ending of the
video, which speaks to a country where
people felt economically they were being
left behind in the wake of the pandemic.
And there's there's no doubt that the
combination of poorly thoughtout fiscal
stimulus and incredible regulatory
burden and unchecked
inflation was leaving almost every
single American housefield household
feeling like they were being left
behind. And President Trump was
elected in the hope that America could
reopen for
business, that American businesses could
flourish, and that American households
could enjoy economic prosperity similar
to that enjoyed, for example, in the in
the early 2000s or the late
1990s. And we're now what, roughly 110
days into the new administration.
I've stopped counting
and and clearly, you know, I I first of
all, I want to you you mentioned that
Scott Bessant was the opening speaker
and I am I am so appreciative that Scott
Bessant laid out his vision for how to
reignite growth in the United States. I
mean, it it's been a long time since
we've seen Washington put forth a plan
for real economic growth. And there are
areas in that plan that we can we can
debate and we will do so over the next
few minutes, but it's it's just great to
have a starting point for a dialogue or
debate. And I I applaud Scott Besson for
doing
so. If we if we look at the plan, there
are two things there are three things
are worth talking about. Number one is
how do we navigate the days ahead of us
in terms of economic policy, tariffs,
taxes, and
deregulation. I think my views on on
tariffs have been pretty well
established. I view tariffs as being
extraordinarily regressive as a tax
policy. I actually think they're
contrary to the promise that the
president made to the American people in
terms of improving their standard of
living because it's going to raise the
cost of goods for households who can
least afford the bill. Now, of course,
the administration will argue that
tariffs will help to bring corporations
back to America in terms of their
manufacturing base. I'm I'm suspect as
to whether or not we're going to see a
material number of new jobs created in
manufacturing.
I mean, first of all, most people forget
that manufacturing today, people in
factories only accounts for about four
or
five% of the entire
workforce. We we have moved into a
postindustrial world across much of the
United States, same as the country did
with respect to agriculture 125 years
ago. I don't know what your family's
roots are, but my family's roots on both
sides was in farming, farming in the
Midwest. And we've we had at the turn of
the last century almost half of all
Americans involved in the production of
food. But because of the incredible
advancements in farming
technology, machinery to save farmers
labor, American farmers now not only
feed our country but feed a substantial
portion of the
world. And they're only 2% of our
workforce.
And when you think in the 1800s it was
80 to 90%. It's an amazing advancement.
C. It's extraordinary, right? It's
extraordinary. It's freed up an enormous
amount of talent and human capital to
further enrich our lives in various
other ways.
with respect to the president's desire
to maintain the current st tax status
quo and to provide additional tax relief
whether it's for tips or people working
overtime. You know, I I will tell you
that the president faces a much more
difficult hand today than we face as a
country at the start of his first
administration. Debt to GDP has gone
from just under a 100 to over 120% in
that period of time.
both real and nominal interest rates are
materially
higher and the financial flexibility
that we have as a nation to continue to
run deficits is in question and I'm I am
worried that we are not taking a step
back and thinking about the fact that as
as difficult as the trade deficit is for
our country our nation's loss of access
to global capital would be far more
devastating. We cannot run a deficit of
of one and a half to2 trillion dollars
for as far as the eye can see. And you
know, Secretary Treasurer has been clear
that he wants to bring the annual
deficit down from roughly 6% to
3%. But I'm not sure we're going to get
there with the current set of of policy
initiatives on the table. The third is
deregulation. And here here I will tell
you the change administration has been a
godsend. The the deluge of regulation
that was crushing American innovation
and creativity like stopped in a day.
Stopped. Now it's not as clear to me
that we're going to head towards a
material regime of deregulation. You
know, part of having one of the
wealthiest countries in the world is is
we want a government that's going to
ensure that we protect our environment.
You know, look for example at the focus
on cleaning up the food chain today. The
focus on cleaning up the food chain is
another form of
regulation. Our country as we become
richer and more prosperous wants to make
sure that we have healthy food, clean
rivers, clean air, that we have safe
schools, safe streets. Much of this
comes with regulation. So, I'm not sure
how much we're going to be able to roll
back the weight of regulation, but the
stopping of the delusion of regulation
of the B administration is just
incredibly powerful for American
entrepreneurship. So, let me ask you
another question, Ken. Um I for the last
60 some odd years have been very focused
on the human and social capital of a
country and the estimate of the US um on
the conservative side is about 1,500
trillion and on the high side maybe 100%
more. So it dwarfs the size of the
economy. It dwarfs the financial assets
of maybe 250
trillion. And therefore, brand USA is an
important
thing. It's
worth thousands of trillions. How can
the US regain its reputation as the most
attractive place for capital formation
and business investment? Well, I I think
you we're mixing two very important
topics here because the human capital
point the human capital point speaks to
not only our ability to raise our
children to be thought leaders in the
world where we we need to do better
today, but it also touches on the fact
that for our entire lifetime, this has
been the country where people go to for
a better life. And so many of the
world's best and brightest have come to
America. I mean, if I just if I ask the
question, how many people in this room
are either their parents or they
themselves came from another country? I
bet you half the hands in this room will
go up.
So, try this. Sure.
All right. Are you first or second
generation in this country?
Right. Think about how much of our
country's human
capital represents those who came here
for a better life. And and to be clear,
when you walk away from your community,
whether it's India or whether it's
Eastern Europe, you give up everything
to come
here. It's a huge statement about the
grit and determination that you have to
chart out a better life for you and your
family.
Well, I think if you measure the
movement of
people to this country, 55 million
people now in the United States have
come here and in many of cases it's been
the brightest the great entrepreneurs of
Nigeria or other countries that have
come here. And so when I talk about
reputation of investment, one is the
investment in people moving here. You
know the majority of the students in
graduate schools and the science in
every area can as you and I discussed
this chart shows it right here. There is
not one not one graduate degree in the
sciences where the majority of people
today were born in the United States. So
part of that investment is not just
money. It's the investment in people
that are willing to come and stay here.
Well, actually, but the key is they need
to stay
here, right? That's the key. And we're
not doing enough to make access to
staying in America either easy or
preferred for so many of these students.
You know, it should literally be if you
graduate from one of America's, you
know, great universities, great graduate
schools, you just get a visa stamp to
your to your degree and and frankly, oh,
welcome to America. Like, here's the
swag. Welcome to America. Stay here and
build your career. So, we've the subject
has been talked about for a while. How
do we get it done? You know, that one
befuddles me because if I meet with
members of the House or Senate, they
almost always agree with that statement.
Like, I I I do not understand our our
unwillingness to embrace a path to
citizenship for those who come here for
their
education. Do you have an explanation?
No, I think we might see it, but what I
saw in the efforts over the last 20 or
30 years are the Democrats felt we
needed a path to citizenship for
everyone that came here, no matter how
they came here, and felt that they would
vote Democratic. The Republicans wanted
to increase substantially the number of
visas for knowledge workers. And so it
was kind of in an impass. We might get
to see it change in the next 6 months to
a year. I think I hope so because one of
the one of the real challenges that we
face as a nation is a declining rate of
GDP
growth. We need to to dramatically
increase both domestic GDP and
productivity per capita if we're going
to make good on the entitlement promises
that we've made to every single
American.
So when you speak of GDP
growth, how does that relate to
resilience, innovation, and shared
prosperity,
Ken? Well, clearly innovation is at the
core of productivity gains. Clearly, I
mean, we go back into back to the story
of the farmer. I I mean, it's Have you
been on a modern John Deere tractor?
It's like the size of like one of those
earthmoving trucks in a strip mine.
They're just ginormous and they get they
navigate around the field with GPS. They
don't miss a single inch doing the tasks
they're set forth to do. Like the
productivity gains from that are
stunning. And so innovation is at the
root of all of our productivity gains
today. Of course, the biggest story
being AI and how much will we increase
our productivity on the back of both the
AI revolution in the
office and in a very profound way the AI
revolution in manufacturing that will
play out over the years to come. I mean
what's what's really curious is do you
actually want to have a heavy labor
content factory today when in five to
seven years so much of that work will be
done by AIdriven robotics. That's that's
a question I think we're not even posing
that we should be asking right here
right now. So let's move to another
topic.
Um, there are universities in this
country that you have been the largest
donor to, all-time donor, too. Michael's
going to have fun with this. I can tell
the cost of college education's rising
even if outcomes are
not. What are some of your top course
corrections to get American higher
education back on track? And should
donors measure the effectiveness of
their gifts to college and
universities? How do you measure your
own when you're making these decisions?
Look, I I think we've got to talk about
two problems. Number one is universities
start with the raw ingredients of what
we produce from our K through 12
education system. Or you would argue
preschool through 12th grade would be
the right the right framing. And and
here here as a country in much of our
nation we're just failing. You know if
you look at the state of Illinois for
example there are 80 schools last
year where not a single child could
perform math at grade
level. 80 schools not one student able
to perform math at grade level.
And if we're going to stay economically
on top of the world, we need a workforce
that's educated at the highest standards
in the world, we have to radically raise
the bar on both expectations and
incentives in K through2 education. So
America's universities are struggling
with a student body that's not as well
prepared for university as it was 30
years ago or 40 years ago. And that's
that's a huge challenge. Now if I think
about you know my days at Harvard you
know I was very fortunate I was I was
taught by some of the some of the
greatest minds in our country. Martin
Feldstein who of course you you would
know Richard Newat Larry Summers who I
know you know these these are people who
are just
phenomenal thinkers in their field or
Michael Sundell in the area of
philosophy. So you were exposed to a
very broad
array of both economic and ideological
thought.
If you look at the the issues in the
elite schools, there's been a a
substantial shift towards the elite
schools focusing on a on a
progressive both curricula and ethos on
campus. And one might argue has have the
have America's Ivy League schools in
particular and Harvard as a as a
vignette of this lost their way? Ken,
aren't you the largest donor that's
actually not pledged but given money to
Harvard?
Yes. And how much influence have you
had?
Well, if you align with where the
university is today, where I think we
should be, I think I have fallen short
on influence.
So, let's Michael's like, "How short did
you fall?"
And, you know, that's what he wants to
ask. I I I like painfully short and if
you know if I if I look at this I'm
going
to no I'm not going to share the story
because it's just it's too humiliating
for the university. I mean the the key
is let me give a story. When I
interviewed with admissions at
Princeton they said only come
here if you aspire to change our
country.
That's what I ask those going into
finance today. Only go into finance if
you aspire to change the world. And and
I think Harvard has lost that key point
which is when you are able to attract
the greatest students in the world. When
you have one of the greatest faculties
in the world, every student there should
be there on a mission to change our
country and to improve our
world. And they should
transcend the the place they have gotten
to today and revert back to the pivotal
role they played in the course of
American history in generating in
creating the future leaders of our
country.
Ken, many
uh many years ago there was a I'm going
to just just I I'll let you have a
little more time. One more shot at this.
All right. Much of my gift to Harvard
has been for financial
aid. And it it is because I was
fortunate enough to go to Harvard from a
scholarship from my grandmother.
there was it would have been damn near
impossible for my parents to make ends
meet and to put me through through
Harvard. But my grandmother saved money
over the course of her life to put all
of her grandchildren through college.
And I had hoped by making a a the
largest gift in the history of the
university to financial aid, I could
open the gates of the university to more
Americans from from families that just
do not have the resources that the
alumni of Harvard had generally had.
[Applause]
And I would make that gift all over
again in a heartbeat because I really do
believe that American education is such
a gift to our future that we should all
support our
universities across the nation. Whether
it's our great state schools, our great
Ivy League schools, we want to make sure
every single student in the United
States can have an opportunity to go to
college. And if you look at lifetime
earnings, you know, there's there's a
lot of arguments today about what people
make who graduate from college versus if
you didn't go to college, the wage gap
grows with every year of life. So, if
you're in your 50s or 60s, having been
to college is an immaterial improvement
in your family's financial
circumstances. We do not want to let the
current
debate undermine the very important
truth that a college education, which
grows human capital, is still an
extraordinary part of how we help people
live the American dream. Thank
you. I'm going to move now a little
younger than college.
You have a number of major foundations,
Gates,
Annenburgg, Chan
Zuckerberg, others who have been Broad
that when they look at their
contributions to
K12 or early child care, they've been
now feeling that this was not successful
in what they were doing. and maybe it
didn't work, etc. Many years ago, we had
this documentary called Waiting for
Superman. Jeff Skull's company did
it. Davis Guggenheim made it. And I took
this video and
documentary to community and community
and had different people watch it and
see how they felt.
and it featured successmies Eva
Moscowit's work
uh that you've supported and it was very
interesting the
reactions on one side particularly those
with higher net worths were
embarrassed that this is America today
and they hadn't thought about it more or
done something but there was another
group of people particularly that were
in lower income or particularly poor who
felt that unless everyone could win the
lottery to go to a charter school that
no one should that their child shouldn't
lose out to the child one block away who
was lucky enough to win the lottery to
go to school. You've been a major
supporter of Success Academy and Eva. We
know what the results are of hers and
others around the country
today relative to
others. Why haven't we moved faster? We
have some states like Texas that have
finally gone to school
choice. What do you see as the results
here? And when you reflect on your own
investments in early child care or K12,
how do they stack up?
So I I see in front of us the success
academy middle school's high school
regions exam scores. Is this right?
Yeah. Everybody sees these numbers?
Yeah. So you can see that the success
academy students do far better at
passing the New York regent
exams. But what's really profound about
this graph is these are the middle
school students at
successmies versus the high school
students in the state public schools.
Why don't you repeat that for the
audience? All
right, just in case it got
lost. These are the middle school
students at
successmies. A student body which truly
represents the demographic of inner city
New York. That's the student body at
successmies compared to the public high
school students of New York State.
So, Eva
Moscowitz, I mean, she she literally
does God's work. I have been in her
classrooms. The children the children
are so dialed in, it is almost hard to
imagine. You know, one of my colleagues
was in a was in a New York public school
and and he posed the question, to whom
did the United States go to war with for
its independence?
And a number of the sophomores are like,
"We we we fought for our
independence." And he goes, "Yeah, we
did. We went to war for our
independence. Do you do you know who?"
And and one of the students said, "Well,
it was Germany." And he goes, "Well,
it's the right
continent. If you walked in a success
academy classroom, I was there with Dan
Loe, the hedge fun manager of Third
Point, and we were in the AP art class.
And Dan and I are both are both big art
collectors. And they would put up a
painting. Name the artist, name the era,
name sort of the the zeitgeist of
society at that moment in time. They put
up a painting. And Dan and I looked at
each other and were like, "No
idea." And some some African-American
student puts her hand up and goes,
"That's so and so 1830. This would have
been the main cultural issues at that
moment in
time." It is so impressive. You go from
art to macroeconomics to AP calculus,
you see the same enthusiasm and energy
and command of knowledge in each and
every one of those rooms. So why am I
saying this in such beled points? We
know how to educate
children. She educates tens of thousands
of kids over the years at successmies.
We know how to do it. We simply must
choose to do it. And this is where the
public sector teachers
unions and the body politic gets
sideways with what's in the interest of
society. You know, we're in the state of
California. I was one of the funders of
litigation. The state California
enshrines in its constitution a
student's right to a good education.
Well, what we learned in the state of
California is that the teachers in the
elite communities who are the poor
teachers are pushed out of those
schools. They're pushed into the schools
of middle class communities. And within
middle class communities, the poor
teachers who are not delivering the the
job are pushed out into the inner city
schools.
So you have a a wildly disproportionate
number of your weakest teachers in the
state of
California are in your inner city
schools and you perpetuate the cycle of
poverty. You don't break it, you
perpetuate it. And Eva Mositz
demonstrates beyond any shadow of a
doubt that any student from any
household, almost every one of her kids
goes on to a four-year
college, can be taught the skills and
knowledge to be an incredibly
contributing member to society. She's
incredible.
So, a little while ago, we gave our
3,000th
award, our national educator
award, and I gave it to a teacher at a
basis school like Eva Schools, but this
one was in
DC, and there's 25 or 30 in the country,
and it's maybe six blocks in DC from
where our center for advancing the
American dream is going to open.
And this
school, 100% of the kids in a very
diverse demographics, 20% 22, from all
different types of races,
100% went to a four-year
college. The average scholarship that
the graduating seniors got, the average
was 190,000.
And the average kid by the end of the
11th grade had taken more than 10 and
passed more than 10
APs. 20% African-American plus 20%
Hispanic, 20% Asian, 20% white or so,
and then a mixture.
I then gave a teacher an award who had
done outstanding work in another school
in
DC just a few blocks away the same
demographics and 15% of the kids went to
four-year colleges not
100 and less than 20% of the kids in the
school ever took an SAT or ACT class. So
this exists in New York but it exists
throughout the country
and I think maybe you can articulate
what is your strategy after all this
work. What do you think is the most
effective way to change this effort? So,
you know, I worked with the Chicago
Public Educ Education Fund for about 20
years in
Chicago. And I, you know, I I hosted a
dinner for the top performing principles
in the city. And what we learned is a
good principal in front of the school
goes a long ways to make a school
better. So, that was that's a that's one
that we could all get our heads around.
And then the principles will go into how
the union work rules will take away
their opportunities to give their kids a
brighter future. You know, for example,
in one of the poorest schools in in
Chicago, the I can't remember the exact
grades, but I believe it was the ninth
grade students who would take algebra
1 actually had to go to a different
school because of the union work rules.
So, their parents who are who are
literally often working two jobs trying
to make ends meet, the parents rotated
who would pick up the kids each day of
the week to take them from one school to
the other to learn math. And this is
happening in the United States of
America. In the United States of
America, we need to make sure that we
are putting our students first. There is
there's a there's plenty that we know of
what you need to do to do this. It's a
it's a question of will. So, I
unfortunately moved a lot of my focus
into the political realm because I
believe this is more of a political
issue than a knowledge issue. We know
how to educate the kids. We need people
in local government, state government,
and federal government who are committed
to improving the opportunity set for our
children. You know, Governor DeSantis in
Florida, for example, or the governor of
Texas, as you mentioned, have really
fought
hard for charter schools, for students
to have a choice and to end the monopoly
that often exists in education. And you
and I both know that monopolies often
tend to result in in what we refer to in
economics as dead weight loss. But here
the loss is the loss of a future or
prosperity for the student. It's just
wrong. So of the
3,000 educators we've given these awards
over the last 35 plus
years, all schools are different. Many
are principles, many are educators.
And I think one of the things Ken, we
all recognize that competition is good
and one of the advantages of charter
schools is it will eventually raise the
level of the public schools and that's
part of the effort here in the
communities and it varies greatly with
good testing with good metrics which are
needed with good feedback to the
parents. One of the things that we found
to be most corrosive in
Chicago was that when a parent asked,
"How's Johnny doing in the classroom?"
The teacher invariably would almost say,
"Johnny's doing great until Johnny can't
pass pass the state's exam at the end of
the year." So, one of the things that
you really need to do is make sure
parents are informed about how their
children are doing to close the quality
loop. Otherwise, the parents, they just
take the answer as given. Now, now to be
clear, there are there are countless
great teachers in the United States. I
mean, I I dedicated a a theater in my
high school in Bocarone, a public high
school, in memory of my English teacher
who changed my life. We all have those
teachers in our lives who changed our
lives. But we need we need to raise
starting salaries for teachers. We need
to have teachers have portable benefits
so that when they're tired of teaching,
they can leave the profession to pursue
other
professions. There are clear things that
we can do to raise the bar of excellence
in our classrooms. But it's a political
will. So, for example, I just spoke
about having teachers have the ability
to have portable
benefits. Right now, you it's very hard
to leave teaching in Chicago after 25
years. Big pension plan to stay. If you
leave, you lose a lot of it.
So, I'm tired of teaching. I'm I want to
move on and I economically I can't. We
need to end those traps.
So, we're talking a lot about education,
but it's the bedrock of our country. And
the other day, Ken, I put up a slide
showing that between 1870 and 1960, the
US became the most educated country in
the world by two years.
uh and since then other countries have
now caught and passed the United States
and I've tried to say okay what really
changed and what really changed what I
saw was the emancipation of women so
this country for a hundred years was
educated by the most talented women who
were denied opportunities to be the CEO
of GM or the CEO of IBM or Lockheed or
others That's correct. And once that
opened up, we didn't figure out what is
our compensation system and incentive
system uh for the best and brightest to
come in. But let's go to maybe the last
subject we can cover today,
philanthropy. The wealthiest group the
world's ever known are the baby
boomers. Unlike the oldest baby boomer,
you're a little younger baby boomer.
Actually, I'm just a little younger than
I'm You missed it. I'm I'm gonna enjoy
that moment for a bit longer.
And the enormous wealth that's going to
pass on here, good percentage of it
going to go into philanthropy.
And so as you look at this transfer of
wealth or the increase in
philanthropy, we're about to have a
philanthropy being created in this
country in the next few years that right
now would be valued at 150 billion and
that's Warren
Buffett's. What is your experience in
these areas? You've been in different
communities. You've gone to
Florida. Give us just a couple minutes
here in closing. What have you learned
in this activity over the years? What
advice would you give
others? So, first of all, I think I
think when people choose to give money
away, it is deeply
personal. So, there's no
one-sizefits-all. For me, I'm trying to
use my philanthropic capital to create
to create change across society. So we
do a lot of work with seating ideas or
concepts that we think can be rolled out
either across the state or across the
nation. So for example in the pandemic
there was a golden opportunity to come
together to bridge the digital divide in
Chicago that existed in the inner city.
Thousands of kids tens of thousands of
kids had no access to the internet.
Families couldn't afford internet
connectivity. and a group of us came
together with the telco companies to put
up the money to bridge the digital
divide. Now, that became part of the
Biden
uh stimulus package. Now, do you know
what's awful about that
story? They still have yet to spend the
money to cross the digital divide. And
part of the reason they won't spend the
money is it's so expensive to take fiber
to houses in rural America. But you know
what's
amazing? I bet you you have Starlinks on
your plane.
I'm How do you know I have a
plane? I'm willing to bet.
All right. So, what's amazing is is
Starlink works in every private jet to
connect keep people connected to the
internet, whether it's to stream movies
on Netflix or to download the
Encyclopedia Bratannica. And yet it's
not quote good enough for rural
America. So this is where this is where
it gets to be very frustrating because
you look at what people are doing in the
philanthropic
realm. Clear winds on the board. And
this is where I I really do hope that
the Trump administration breaks some
glass. They need to break the
bureaucracy in Washington that that
prevents these ideas from being
translated into direct impact that helps
helps fellow Americans. You know,
Starlinks across rural America would end
the digital divide and they could do it
in months and it would transform the
lives of of millions of people. But that
was that was a big win was was that was
was to demonstrate that we could
actually in our country cross the
digital divide. We do a lot of work in
cancer and cancer related research as as
I know you have. Cancer is one of the
great lifealtering diseases of our life
as as you know all too well and my
family's had family members struggle
with cancer. We all will struggle with
cancer in our lifetime. One in two men,
one in three women. Yes, we've done a
tremendous amount of work in public
safety. We worked for example at the
University of Chicago on predictive
analytics as to where crime would occur
in Chicago.
Now, do you know what happens when you
know where crime is going to occur? You
preposition the police officers to be
there at the scene of the
crime. Sounds like Minority Report,
except the crime never
happens. So, we brought down the murder
rate, for example, in one of the
toughest neighborhoods in Chicago by 50%
in the blink of an eye. It's incredible.
Can one last question and we're going to
go to this concert that completes six
days of conf of this con
conference. If a child walks into the
Air and Space Museum in Washington DC
today, you've made a major effort here
to upgrade
that. What was your thinking behind
that?
So, I was born of the era of the space
age. My father worked at General
Electric and he worked on the Apollo
missions. And I I do believe that when
we as a nation put man on the moon, it
was one of the greatest triumphant
accomplishments in the history of
humanity. I mean, we we still haven't
done it again in decades since. and we
did it in the 1960s with with technology
that's so archaic we can't even relate
to it or imagine it
anymore. I really do hope whether it's
supporting the Smithsonian or the Museum
of Science Industry of Chicago or the
Field Museum of Chicago or the American
Museum of Natural History in New York
that those moments occur where where
like a six-year-old girl goes, I want to
be an astronaut. And even if she never
becomes an astronaut, she will
pursue a life of
learning and engagement and growth. I
really do hope that that creating those
moments where a young child's inspired
by
science that I give them a gift that
will forever spark their imagination,
spark their creativity, and help them
make the most of who they are. Thank
you, Ken. Thank you for joining
us, Michael. Thank you so very
[Applause]
much. Thank you.
Fall now.
