All right, good afternoon everyone and
welcome to Brookfield Asset Management's
2025 investor day. On behalf of our
entire senior management team, thank you
for joining us here in person in New
York and virtually through our webcast.
We appreciate your continued interest
and partnership.
We've planned a terrific agenda today
for you. First, Connor Tesy, our
president, will begin by discussing our
strategic priorities. Priorities that
underpin our success and that are
driving sustained growth across our
businesses.
Next, Hadley Pier Marshall, our CFO,
will talk about the targets we set for
ourselves five years ago and how we
performed against them and outline our
plan over the next five years.
After that, we've lined up a terrific
panel people that will f that will
highlight some of the important
strategies that are coming to market
soon and funds that are uh scaling
quickly. Finally, Cyrus Madden,
executive vice chair, will sit down with
our CEO, Bruce Flatt, for a conversation
on leadership, reflecting
uh reflecting on the lessons that have
shaped Brookfield's success over the
past few decades and their perspectives
on the future.
Between each of these sessions, we'll
feature short case study v videos. We
often speak about owning and operating
the real assets and essential service
businesses that make up the backbone of
the global economy. The purpose of these
videos is really to highlight the true
scale and quality of these assets.
Something that's difficult to convey
just through slides and numbers alone.
Now, before we begin, I just want to
touch on a few housekeeping notes. We'll
be happy to take questions both from our
uh in-person audience and our virtual
audience, but we'll do that at the end
of BAM's presentations. If you just wait
for a mic to reach you, uh that will
allow us hear your question clearly. And
as always, I'd like to remind you that
during the Q&A and throughout today's
discussions, we make forward-looking
statements. These statements are
predictions about future events and
trends and are subject to risks and
uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially
from these that we discussed today. And
for further details, please refer to our
filings with the securities regulators
in the US and Canada and the cautionary
statements contained in our
presentation. All of which are available
on our brand new website that we just
launched last week. So definitely go and
check that out later because for now,
please silence your phones, sit back,
and enjoy the presentations. Let's get
started by welcoming Connor Tesy to the
stage.
[Applause]
Thanks, Jason.
Last year when we gave this
presentation, we explained how our
platform was prepared to deliver and
double in size over 5 years, matching
more than the growth that had been
delivered in the 25 years prior.
This year, we intend to convey how we
continuously add new additional growth
levers to our business that will allow
us to outperform our long-term earnings
targets, not only in the near- term, but
beyond.
Today, Brookfield Asset Management is
the leading global alternative asset
manager focused on real assets. We
manage over a trillion dollars across
five key verticals and we use a distinct
owner operator approach to deliver
attractive riskadjusted returns across
all our strategies and products.
And our platform, our global reach, our
scale allows us to deliver on this
performance. But it is our focus on
critical assets and services, the
backbone of the global economy that
ensures that we are always positioned at
the epicenter of the largest and most
attractive investment themes around the
world.
We execute on this business through an
irreplaceable platform that is global in
nature that allows us to raise and
deploy capital in all of the world's
most attractive markets.
We use boots on the ground individuals
that allow us to invest, operate, and
raise funds across each of our
strategies in every market around the
world that we do business.
And while that gives us a platform for
success and growth, it also gives us an
unparalleled global perspective to
identify new trends around the world
that we can position our business to
capitalize on wherever and wherever they
originate.
And as we continue to say and have been
saying for years, the largest investment
themes around the world today are those
of digitalization,
delobalization,
and decarbonization.
Similar to what we said last year, these
are attractive because the growth
opportunities and the capital needs in
each of these themes are so significant
that they outstrip what is available
from both public companies and from
governments. And this creates a large
attractive and growing opportunity for
private capital. And that comment is
more true today than it was last year.
And it's far more true today than it was
four or five years ago when we started
talking about the 3Ds.
And we continue to believe that the
largest and most attractive
opportunities are for those who can
operate at scale at the epicenter of one
or more of these dynamics.
And when you look at our platform, our
position in the market and the themes
that we are on the forefront of, we not
only have a business that can double in
less than 5 years, but can continue to
add new growth levers over time on a
repeatable basis.
And that allows us to deliver up to 20%
compound earnings on a year-over-year
basis. Not just in the near term, but
longer term as well.
And we can do this because of the
leadership position that we already have
that we continue to build from. And that
leadership position is very difficult
for anyone to replicate. It's been built
over decades of delivering attractive
riskadjusted returns at a scale and a
consistency that few if any can match.
However,
our focus on the backbone of the global
economy and our continued focus on
essential assets sometimes overshadows
what we think is an underappreciated
component of our business, which is we
continue to work to preserve our
leadership position by constantly
evolving our platforms to take advantage
of whatever the next large and
attractive opportunity is.
By doing this, we can continue to raise
more capital from a wider spectrum of
investors.
And similarly, on a continuous basis, we
can generate proprietary deal flow. We
can identify new trends. And we can
continue to launch and scale new
products and strategies that meet the
needs of the market and of our clients.
And as we think of what are the dynamics
that will continue to add these new
growth levers in the future, there are
four. These are products, partnerships,
performance, and individuals.
Let's start with products.
Brookfield has a proven embedded
capability to scale strategies that we
already have, but we also have a unique
and repetitive capability
to develop, build, and launch one new
strategies that meet the evolving market
needs around the world and the demands
of our clients, as well as products
within those strategies that are
uniquely tailored to the widening
spectrum of investors that are now
seeking to get exposure to alternatives.
And we can do this very efficiently and
effectively because we already have
large and leading platforms across the
most important and fastest growing
segments of the alternative sector. When
we launch a new adjacent or
complimentary product, it is not
starting from scratch. It can leverage
the existing global platform that
already exists within that asset class.
And this allows us to do this on a
repeated basis with a high degree of
success very quickly and at strong
margins.
And Hadley's going to come up shortly to
explain our five-year plan. And what
she's going to show is that our largest
products, our flagships, they continue
to scale very quickly.
But a growing portion of our future
growth is now coming from complimentary
and ancillary products. And this is not
new.
This is part of an ongoing process that
been has been happening for more than a
decade where we are systematically
looking to offer the full suite of
products and services across debt,
equity, and structured solutions across
every vertical we have for every
investor type we look to service.
And this is already showing up in our
results. Over 70% of our fee revenue
today comes from products and strategies
that have been launched in the last
decade. And we expect those strategies
to make up about twothirds of our
fundraising in our 5-year plan. So what
are some tangible examples of this?
Over the last 10 years, we've built a
credit franchise that today represents
30% of our global revenues and is
growing at more than 20% a year. And
we've done this solely by not trying to
be all things to all people, but rather
leveraging the existing leadership
positions we already have. We have a
leading real asset finance business that
leverages Brookfield's historical
leadership and real assets. We have an
leading opportunistic credit franchise
leveraging Oak's historical leadership
position. And we have one of the largest
and fastest growing asset back finance
franchises leveraging the leadership of
Castle Lake Primary Wave and our other
partner managers.
But it doesn't always take 10 years.
Sometimes it can be a lot faster. In
2021, we launched our first ever energy
transition product leveraging our
multi-deade track record within
renewables.
In less than five years, we now have a
franchise that produces over $400
million a year. And every product within
that strategy is market leading in terms
of its scale. And we were able to do
that by simply leveraging the
capabilities, platform, and knowledge
that already existed within Brookfield.
And this is not a one-hit wonder. We are
already seeing history repeat itself.
Today there is a significant market
opportunity to fund the growth of AI
infrastructure both in this country and
around the world. And that strategy is
going to require a unique pool of
capital that is dedicated to the
investment profiles within that theme.
And given our leadership in digital
infrastructure, our relationships with
the hyperscalers,
our experience in advanced
manufacturing, and our leading power
business around the world across
traditional renewables and nuclear, we
feel we are placed to launch a
marketleading AI infrastructure
franchise and you will hear more about
that on the panel later today.
So let's move to partnerships.
Brookfield is unique.
Our owner operator approach, the
alignment that comes by investing
significant Brookfield capital alongside
our LP partners and our owner op and the
dedicated industry specific knowledge
and experience.
This differentiates us and makes us a
sought-after counterparty for the
largest and most important organizations
in the world for their strategic and
growth initiatives.
And our ability to provide largecale
flexible capital solutions and to
deliver transaction certainty provides
us a large and attractive proprietary
deal flow pipeline where we don't need
to compete on cost of capital and we are
able to offer this interactive
deployment to our clients through our
private funds. And again, this is not
theoretical.
Simply from bilateral partnerships that
we have announced in 2025, we have $40
billion of go forward deployment
opportunities. And that's on top of
partnerships we'd announced before this
year where we're already and
continuously deploying capital.
And obviously we can use this attractive
deal flow to scale up some of our
existing strategies, but we can also use
it to launch new strategies. The way our
Barclay's partnership is helping us
launch our financial infrastructure fund
or our sovereign AI partnerships are
helping us launch our AI infrastructure
platform.
And these partnerships go beyond just
funding arrangements. By working closely
with the largest and most sophisticated
organizations around the world, we
consistently and continuously find more
ways to work together. We can be their
operating partner. They can be a tenant
in our buildings. We can manage our
pension. We can manage their pension for
them. We c they can be an offtaker of
our assets. We can pursue new
investments together in the future.
These partnerships are only going to
scale with us as our business grows.
And we are able to launch these part
execute these partnerships and we are
able to launch these products because of
what is the bedrock of our business
which is our long track record of
delivering very attractive riskadjusted
returns.
Our valueoriented approach and our focus
on essential durable assets with
long-term cash flows provides a platform
that can perform across the market cycle
and in an envir in in a number of
economic environments.
And this is particularly important today
as public markets become more volatile
and as some of the new investors looking
to get exposure to alternatives put an
increasing focus on downside protection,
consistency, and liquidity.
And this is exactly what we offer. By
continuing to invest in highquality
businesses,
we can continue to expand into the
largest and most attractive areas of
real assets, but those that can continue
to deliver the consistency and
resiliency of returns that have defined
our franchise for years. And this is
particularly important for the
individual investors we are looking to
target and also insurance companies that
are looking to get exposure to
alternatives who want those premium
returns but want to avoid illquidity and
volatility that has plagued some in the
sector. And again this shows up in our
results across all of our major
strategies and products. We have met or
exceeded our returns on a long-term
basis.
And this is something we will not
compromise on as we continue to scale.
Our investment discipline and our
product innovation discipline will
ensure that we continue to deliver this
track record even as our platform
expands.
But there's one more point to be made
about insurance. And our focus on
highquality essential assets that
produce cash flow has insulated
Brookfield from some of the liquidity
concerns that have plagued the
alternative industry in recent periods
by focusing on businesses that generate
steady and growing cash flows and in
particular by avoiding investments that
require high valuations on exit in order
to generate returns.
We have more options to either up
finance or monetize businesses to
provide LPS distributions even if market
conditions are not ideal.
Take real estate and private equity as
an example. Two sectors of the market
where the narrative of meager dep
returns of capital is the strongest.
In just 2025 or the 12 months, the most
recent 12 months, we've actually had
some of our most active periods of
distributions reflecting the high
quality of our portfolio. This
differentiates our platform and will
provide our next leg of growth
particularly to the new investors
looking to enter the alternatives
market. Which brings us to our fourth
growth lever, which is individuals.
There are more people across more
investment types around investor types
around the world today that are looking
to get access to alternatives.
And as this takes place, we see perhaps
the largest growth opportunity for our
platform since we launched our flagship
funds.
And not only are we prepared and well
positioned to capitalize on this
opportunity, we think we can take a
disproportionate amount of share as this
market grows over time.
And the background here is simple.
For two decades, the alternatives market
has grown as institutions have allocated
more of their portfolio to alternatives.
And the important thing to be reminded
of here is this trend is not slowing
down. institutions continue to allocate
more to alternatives and that alone
could double the size of the alternative
market over the next 10 years.
And yes, while Brookfield is working to
provide alternatives to a wider spectrum
of investors, we continue to see
significant growth from within
institutions.
The dynamic of the largest institutional
investors continuing to concentrate
their capital in a smaller number of
managers with the scale, track record
and products to meet their global needs
continues to benefit us because here we
feel we are second to none.
More specifically within Brookfield,
there are still areas of the
institutional market where we are only
scratching the surface. Take Europe for
example.
For years, it's been a market we deploy
heavily into, but we've not raised as
much capital there historically. We
expect to raise three times as much
capital in Europe this year than last
year. We are still in the infancy of our
family capital business. These are parts
of our institutional platform that can
grow not at 20 or 30% but two or three
times a year going forward.
But as mentioned, everyone recognizes
that we are in the early innings of one
of the largest growth opportunities for
the alternative sector. And that is
offering alternatives to the individual
investor.
This is your high net worth or retail
investor. This is your annuity or
insurance policy holder. This is your
401k or retirement market. And this
market is exciting because not only is
it larger than the institutional market
on a global basis, but h has a smaller
allocation to alternatives today. And
over the next several many years, we
expect that allocation to alternatives
to increase dramatically due to changes
in both regulation and investor demand.
And we are already on the forefront of
this trend.
Through Bose, our high net worth and
retail platform, we are going to raise10
billion this year. That is more than
5050%
higher than last year. A momentum we
expect to maintain as we launch more
products that are specifically designed
for that distribution channel. We're
launching a private equity product
currently and we will launch another
credit product before the end of the
year. Similarly, on the insurance and
annuity side, we are already one of the
largest providers of alternatives to the
insurance and annuity space, not only
through our service of BWS that
continues to scale rapidly, but also by
offering alternatives through SMAs to
third-party insurance companies.
When we look at who will win in offering
alternatives to individual investors, it
is those who have size, brand and track
record. And here we feel we are
unmatched.
But perhaps more importantly, these
investors want those premium returns
from alternatives, but they put a higher
value on liquidity, consistency, and
downside protection. And our focus on
essential critical backbone of the
global economy assets is perfectly
matched to meet this market demand. No
one is bigger in these areas of
alternatives. And therefore, we feel we
are best placed to offer these products
to the individual market over time. And
therefore, what are we doing today? We
are using our unique capabilities to
provide real assets to meet the specific
needs of individual investors. And this
is not something we hope to do and we
hope there will be demand for. This is
exactly what we are hearing from the
plan administrators, the consultants and
the financial advisors.
Secondly, we are actively developing new
products that are specifically tailored
to the needs of these individuals and we
will look to do that as their needs
evolve and scale over time. And lastly,
we already have very large and dedicated
teams that are focused on these end
customers and we will continue to scale
these teams such that we can have a
leadership in this market the same way
we do in the institutional market.
And as such, when Hadley comes up to
present our five-year plan, we believe
the individual investor represents an
upside to our base 5-year performance
where we could materially outperform.
So in conclusion, we have a platform
that can deliver that doubling of size
in less than 5 years. But more
importantly, due to products,
partnerships, and the individual market,
we continue to add new growth levers to
our business on a consistent and
repeatable basis. And our ability to do
this will allow us to outperform our
longtime earnings target, not only over
the near-term, but beyond. Thank you.
>> Thank you and welcome. We're very
excited you're here today. Uh these
videos we put together for our private
funds investor day and we thought we'd
showcase a few of them for you so you
have a better sense of the types of
opportunities we're investing in. Uh
what drives these opportunities and why
we find them attractive. So I hope
you're enjoying them. I want to spend a
few minutes going deeper into some of
the themes that Connor talked about um
especially around the growth of our
business and put some numbers behind
this. Connor has been clear that we
expect to double the size of the
business over the next five years. But I
think it's important that we're also
clear why we have the confidence to
deliver this. And the main reason is
because we've done it before repeatedly.
We have strong results, consistently
strong results on the backs of
significant growth expectations.
And these goals were realistic because
the drivers of our business, strong
investor demand, opportunity set,
actually a large opportunity set that
fits our areas of expertise,
competitive advantages that Connor
outlined, and above all else, our
disciplined approach to protecting our
performance.
So if you go back five years,
this is when we laid out our five-year
plan, similar today, doubling the size
of the business. And at that point we
had 277 billion of fee bearing capital
growing to $510 billion.
Fee related earnings or FRE was 1.3
billion expected to grow to 2.6 billion
doubling.
Now these goals may have seemed
ambitious but they were grounded in a
broad-based thoughtful plan where we're
going to expand our strategies
and continue to grow our business with a
leadership position across all of our
businesses.
So, how'd we do? Let's check the report
card, I guess. Um, as you can see, not
only did we meet expectations, but we
exceeded expectations.
Today, we have 563 billion of fee
bearing capital. That's a 200 basis
point outperformance.
Fee related earnings is 2.7 billion.
Now, this period of time was
interesting. uh it was dominated by
uncertainty, but we knew that we could
deliver on this plan because the
underlying fundamentals of our business
and especially the diversification
across all of our businesses.
So, how did we do it?
Flagships are the cornerstone of our
business. You've heard us say this
before. They are where we house our
operating skills, our asset knowledge,
our sourcing capabilities, and above all
else, 125 years of learning lessons as
we've been investing. So if you go back
to 2020, we had four strategies, real
estate, private equity, credit, and
infrastructure.
And that round generated about 53
billion of fee bearing capital.
Today that round is 93 billion, 75%
growth. And if you exclude our global
transition fund, which is on its second
vintage and launched since 2020, that's
about 30 plus% growth on a same store
basis.
Bottom line, investors have shown a
willingness to continue to commit round
after round because of the performance
of our fund, the quality, and the return
of capital on an attractive risk
adjusted return basis.
But the flagships do more than just
scale and repeat. They're the launching
pad for our complimentary strategies,
both equity and credit. So let's go back
to 2020. We had about 14 billion of fee
bearing capital. That made up about 20%
of our fundraising at that time. Fast
forward today, 74 billion, five times
growth.
So some of the strategies that existed
behind these numbers, our financial
infrastructure fund, our real estate
solution strategy, our infrastructure
debt fund, and these continue to scale
up. We've also expanded our platform.
Wealth solutions is the perfect example
here where we're growing that in a quick
pace.
Now the last part is the evolution of
credit. So again, let's return to 2020.
We had just invested in Oak Tree. Uh we
about we had about a hundred billion of
fee bearing capital and today that's 250
billion.
130% increase.
What's more is the composition of our
credit capabilities. We've expanded and
diversified into our core competencies.
Asset back finance,
real assets, that's infrastructure and
real estate where we dominate on the
equity side and opportunistic credit.
and our partner managers, best-in-class
partner managers, have helped us expand
our capabilities here.
But above all else, the major theme of
our credit business is to stick to what
we know, invest only when we see a
distinct advantage,
and make sure that we're returning the
appropriate risk adjusted returns to our
investors.
Now, fundraising obviously supports all
of this growth that I've just outlined.
In the past five years, we raised 450
billion. That's a big number. And when
we think about that, we've been able to
broaden and deepen our relationships
with the institutional market. That's
grown 25% to 2500.
And those new clients make up about 20%
of our institutional fund raise. Many of
our clients have increased the size of
their tickets and allocating amongst
more of our strategies.
But the step change came in private
wealth. This has been a big change for
us. We went from really starting from
scratch to 60,000 clients and growing
quickly.
Now, finally, we've got Brookfield
Wealth Solutions.
And when you look at that, we've managed
about 100 billion of fee bearing
capital. And behind that is 800,000
annuity policies. So given this growth
and diversification,
you can see that our business is more
durable and more stable from a
fundraising perspective regardless of
the market environment.
So now all in we further strengthened
our franchise, deepened the pools of
fundraising
and offered more products
uh that are tailored to our investors.
And this formula has worked for us for
for generating long-term growth.
In fact, if we look back 15% growth rate
flagships generated about 100 billion,
we had about 160 billion coming coming
from complimentary strategies. Another
100 billion coming from insurance
solutions. Finally returning
133 billion back to our clients.
So this shows you why we're confident
that we can deliver the next doubling of
our business.
And in fact, we're off to a great start.
If you go through the past 12 months,
we've raised 97 billion. We've deployed
135 billion. and into the some of the
most significant transactions we've done
at Brookfield. Colonial Pipeline, Jim's
Education, Divvy, Duke Energy.
These investments highlight the scale of
capital we can raise, but also the
opportunity set that we can only access.
Now, monetizations are an critical part
of our business. This is where we return
capital back to investors and strengthen
and deepen those relationships.
And if you look at the past 12 months,
even during that period of time when M&A
volumes have been low, we delivered a
record monetization number, 75 billion
of assets have been sold, returning
about 50 billion of equity to investors.
Now, we'll think about different
strategies in order to deliver these
monetizations. Sometimes we'll do a
partial sell like we did with data for
we sold a portfolio of stabilized data
centers. Aveo is a good example of where
we sold the investment outright
and there are times that we will think
about the public markets. In fact, we
launched a IPO successfully back in June
for Leela and that was our Indian luxury
hotel portfolio.
Above all else though, what is the
critical part of that is returning the
capital with the appropriate risk
adjusted returns. So strong returns.
Now, we've talked about in the past buy
versus build. Think about build
complimentary. On the buy front, there
are times when we want to expand our
capabilities that we will invest in
partner managers. And this past year,
we've been active. We've invested in
Castle Lake, assetback finance,
Angelope, mortgage, and structured
credit solutions provider.
But in addition, there are also times
that we'll we will attract and and and
retain more opt uh stakes within our
partner managers. So, Oak Tree and
Primary Wave, we increase our stakes
there.
Across the board, we have about 175
billion of fee bearing capital that we
managed from the partner manager
perspective. This has really further
enhanced our capabilities as well.
So the success of all this growth means
that we have delivered doubledigit
growth for all metrics 2.7 billion for
our fee related earnings 2.5 billion for
our distributable earnings and if you
look at our DE about 100% of that comes
from FRE
revenues have grown faster than our cost
meaning our operating leverage is built
into the business expanding our margins
and so we've been very happy with the
success we've generated to date.
Liquidity is also something we focus on
extremely with prudence and discipline
and we continue to find other sources of
capital for Brookfield Asset Management.
Recently, we issued our first bond deal
back in the spring
and we actually did our second one last
week. That leaves four billion of
capacity at our high investment grade
ratings and that's more than enough to
support the business plan that we're
presenting to you today.
In addition, that capacity only grows as
our DE grows over time.
We have uh we've expanded our banking
relationships. We upsize our Evolver to
$1 billion. So, we have plenty of
capital to support the business, but we
will remain an asset light model.
Now, I want to spend a few minutes
talking about the strategic initiatives
because we've made excellent progress.
I've covered some of this. We've
expanded our pro uh product offerings,
our fundraising capabilities and our
sources of liquidity, but we've brought
more liquidity to our shareholders and
we simplified our corporate structure.
We are now head headquartered in the US,
which fits our profile.
We have uh simplified the corporate
structure by exchanging Brookfield
Corporation's share in the privately
held entity for the public entity which
now means that our market cap reflects
100% of our business so call it around
100 billion.
In addition to that, we file SEC
registered reports similar to our peers.
And what's that led to is us being
included in the Russell 1000 and being
positioned for additional index
inclusion.
So now we're on to the next five years,
the doubling.
This is a compounding growth model
supported by flagship funds,
complimentary funds, and wealth
solutions.
The flagships I'm I'm going to repeat
again how important this is to our
business. And there is still
scalability. We see a 30% growth for the
2030 round of fundraisings for these
five strategies. Our complimentary funds
will continue to grow with at 100%
growth. So we're really going to see a
lot of growth attached to our
complimentary strategies. And this year
we thought it was important to really
distinguish between the two categories.
Mature strategies versus new strategies.
Mature strategies are strategies that
have already seen the success. Multiple
fundraises uh opportunity set out there
investor demand. Uh so our
infrastructure debt fund which is on its
fourth vintage right now uh is a good
example of that. New strategies are
strategies that were in prog development
or we are just recently launched. So the
AI infrastructure fund is a good
example.
Well solutions is another part of our
growth story. We manage about 100
billion of fee bearing capital that's
growing to 325
by 2030.
Now Nick and Sachin Zach Satchin are
going to come up and talk about their
growth plans for the business, but
they've already announced just group a
UK pension risk transfer business and
they'll add about 30 billion of fee
bearing capital. But what else I want to
point out on this slide is as you can
see in the blue allocation which is our
private funds that's increasing over the
next five years. So we are taking money
from the liquid bucket and moving it
over to our private funds. As everyone
appreciates, we earn a management fee
across the board regardless of the
allocation. But when it does move into
the private funds, we earn additional
fees. So that's another growth engine.
So now pulling this all together,
we have further strengthened our
franchise. We have continued to expand
and grow our business and we anticipate
generating about 16% growth rate. Our
flagships and mature complimentary
strategies will generate about 50% of
our fee bearing capital. And these are
always successful. They're just scale
and repeat. New complimentary strategies
strategies will bring in about 120
billion.
insurance solutions 230 billion while
returning 170 billion back to our
clients and this will get us to doubling
of our business of $1.2 trillion.
It the growth will be seen across all of
our businesses. Connor talked about the
mega trends we're feeling in our
business and that you can see is part of
the growth story for all businesses.
But I want to spend a second about the
in the capital base that we have because
today about 87% of it is either
long-term or permanent in nature and
that's going to continue to grow to 92%
by 2030.
Again showing the the uh predictability
and the stability of our business.
Now getting into the weeds on the
numbers, you can see the growth of our
revenues and that's the driver behind
17% growth for our FRE at $359 per
share.
Again, revenues growing faster than our
costs. So expanding our margins
and that FRE is the driver behind our DE
18% growth. There is a little bit of
carry coming in a billion dollars net of
cost. Uh, and so you start to accumulate
that carry.
So, we're very happy with this 18%
growth. But I want to spend a second on
the carry because as you may recall when
we spun out BAM about three years ago,
all the legacy carried stayed with
Brookfield Corporation.
And for any fund that we launched post
the spin-off, twothirds comes to
Brookfield Asset Management and a third
goes to Brookfield Corporation. So Nick
buys me coffee. I think everyone gets
that.
When you think about the 30 billion that
will accumulate from 2031 to 2035, 10
will go to Brookfield Corporation and
net Brookfield Asset Management will get
10 billion. That's the next leg of
growth for Brookfield.
So I mentioned 18% growth and that is
really our base case but I want to also
discuss some of the other levers that
are not built in to their business plan
that could generate growth for us.
Access to 401ks is a great example. This
will be something that will grow our
business over the long term. 10 trillion
dollars opening up that is a step
change. New complimentary funds. So
these are the types of funds that aren't
in product development right now, but
they will come about. A high
infrastructure fund wasn't in our
business plan last year and now it is.
So that's an example of of a fund that
will come about because of the market
drivers, investor demand.
Capital markets, this is an area where
we've been quite conservative with our
numbers and there is upside to that. And
then finally, M&A. We have additional
stakes options really at Brookfield
uh against our partner managers where we
can buy additional u additional
percentages for attractive multiples
and in that if you look at it uh
assuming 100% of ownership by Brookfield
as an example that equates to 300
million of fee related earnings addition
in addition to that we will look at
opportunistic M&A and that is a
possibility.
So all of these multiple path when
assuming the base case of 18% can
generate 20 plus% annualized earning
growth.
So now you understand why we have
confidence in delivering the double of
our business
especially around the products,
partnerships and individuals that we've
laid out. We are built for this. And
when we set a plan, the culture at
Brookfield is aligned to deliver it. So
I know I said this last year, but when I
think about our base case plan plus the
additional levers and all the growth
drivers that have just outlined,
I genuinely believe the best is yet to
come. So thank you.
[Applause]
>> Good afternoon everyone. um uh Hadley
and Connor outlined some pretty um
dramatic growth plans over the next five
years and obviously the the in order to
do that um they need to sort of start at
a very high level uh and because of the
size and scale of the operation that
growth comes from a lot of different uh
different areas. So we wanted to try and
bring some of this to life for you. Um
so the next section we're going to do a
panel with some of my colleagues who are
responsible for a lot of that growth um
and really try and highlight three
examples of of what Hadley talked about.
um one growth from our our existing
mature strategies uh two uh growth that
comes from complimentary strategies that
that that spin out of that and three
growth from accessing uh new channels
new channels for fundraising and and for
capital. Um so I'm going to be joined on
on stage in a minute by um by these
three individuals but but first Anuj
Ranjen who is the CEO of our private
equity business. I was going to come up
and talk about Brookfield Capital
Partners, uh, which is our global
flagship, uh, private equity fund. Uh,
we'll be launching, we've launched the
the seventh iteration of that fund. Um,
and and it's a little unique in uh, uh,
in the private equity world, but when
you hear the description of the
strategy, it's really not unique to
Brookfield, right? So, it's very focused
on um, uh, durable cash flows, uh,
businesses that are complimentary to
what we do in infrastructure and in real
estate. And as a result of that has had
a tremendous track record. So over the
last uh 25 years uh for through the
first six vintages uh we have an average
return of 26% which I I think is the the
best performing private equity track
record uh in the market today. Um and a
lot of that importantly comes from and
this will sound very very familiar to
our from our other businesses from
operational improvements. Huge focus on
that. Uh as Connor said we're not really
relying on you know markets being
buoyant and and multiples being high to
get those returns. A lot of it is coming
from just rolling up your sleeves and
and driving returns.
Um joining us as well will be uh will be
um from Brookfield Infrastructure Income
Fund uh is um Chloe Barry uh who uh this
is a unique fund. So this is an example
of a new fundraising uh channel for us
which is this is now our largest private
uh sorry our largest private wealth
platform. Uh launched just two years
ago. We've raised over six billion
dollars for this strategy. also unique
compared to some of the competitive
product out there in that it's not a new
strategy. Uh really what this is is it's
offering the best of Brookfield uh
Brookfield infrastructure in particular.
So it it co-invests alongside our global
uh infrastructure fund, our global debt
fund, uh BGTF, the the transition fund,
and our our structured equity product as
well. Um so Khloe's going to talk a
little bit about what's made that
successful and uh and how we've uh what
the plans are for the future. And then
finally, Sakanda Rasheed's going to join
us. Cicander runs our private our uh
infrastructure business in Europe, but
more importantly is responsible for
launching our AI fund uh which will be
uh coming out later on this fall. Um for
those of you that have been to this
conference before, you're well familiar
with the 4Ds. Uh one of which is digital
infrastructure uh which we've been
investing in over the last 10 years
through our infrastructure business. But
because of the scale uh and growth and
explosion in demand for this type of
product over the last 12 months, we
really see an opportunity to break this
strategy out as a whole uh individual
fund. Um Sker's going to talk a little
bit about what's driving that. Um but
Connor touched on this as well. We think
there's a $7 trillion
uh opportunity here for the capital
that's going to be required to build out
data centers, additional compute
capacity, and all of the associated
power generation that that goes with
that. Um, and so this is a great example
of a complimentary strategy being born
out of an existing one that we already
had. So, uh, without further ado, I'll
ask the three of them to come join me on
stage.
[Applause]
So, um, Anuj, maybe we'll start with
you. We we you and I always debate about
whether real estate had the first fund
or whether private equity was the first
fund 25 years ago, but but either way,
like we've been doing this for a really
long time. Um you're the boss now. Uh so
you can you don't have to give Cyrus all
the credit, but tell us like what has
actually, you know, been in your mind
the key differentiator for this
franchise to to to drive those returns.
>> So look, just to clarify, uh private
equity was the first one. uh real estate
can be the biggest business but you
can't take away being the first from
private equity. Um what we do is we we
are value investors who drive
operational transformation in the
businesses that we own. We focus on
industrial companies and essential
services that tr touch the Brookfield
ecosystem where we have an information
advantage or we know the business better
than anyone else could. Our goal is to
be the best owner of the business, not
just the highest payer of a business. We
make uh most of our money through margin
expansion, not multiple expansion. And
so the goal really is in any company
that we own to be able to just increase
the free cash flow in a business um
enough that it generates our returns on
its own. If we are lucky and we get some
multiple expansion on exit, we do even
better. Um, all of that taken together,
it's allowed us over 25 years to have a
top quartortile uh uh track record that
uh has been very consistent across all
of our funds. Um, it's also allowed us
to uh build some uh complimentary
strategies around our core flagship
offering. And so this capability we have
in industrials, essential services and
operations, it's allowed us to build a
structured equity product. Uh it's
allowed us to build a new wealth product
that we're soon to be launched and uh a
financial infrastructure product as
well. And so I'd say we're pretty uh
happy and pleased with the how it's
performed over the past 25 years, but
we've really got a lot of ingredients in
place today for expansion.
>> Yeah. So, so regardless of which fund
was first, which we can agree to
disagree, um over that time, that last
25 years, we have launched a lot of
different strategies. And you know
Connor had a slide where a bunch of dots
just just sort of magically appeared as
as new strategies over that period of
time. But like it is a lot of work
launching a new fund strategy. Maybe
just talk a bit about how the AI fund
came about and and the the process that
we've got to go through to to stand a
new strategy up like this even when it
is complimentary.
>> Yeah. Brian happy to. Well, firstly I'll
say it's been one of the most fun
projects if not the most fun assignment
I've had over the last 13 years at the
firm. Uh but obviously it's not come
without its challenges. Uh we've had to
huddle up multiple times over the last
18 months to ensure we have conviction
uh that this is going to be a highly
scalable platform uh to make sure we
have the right deals uh to show to our
investors and also obviously to make
sure that the clients our clients
themselves are interested in a product
like this. Um so those have been some of
the challenges we've had to grapple
with. The good news is we've done it
before as Hadley talked about earlier.
Just four years ago, we launched our
transition strategy, which as Connor
mentioned today is generating $400
million of annual revenue. We've raised
$30 billion of capital over the last
four years. And at the time, I would say
there's four important considerations.
First was, is the tangible market
opportunity uh big enough? The answer
was yes. We expect tens of trillions of
dollars will be expected invested in the
world to decarbonize it. Secondly, do we
have the credibility and the track
record? At the time, yes, we had hundred
billion dollars of assets under
management for renewable power around
the world. Third was, can it be
scalable? And fourth was, do our clients
want a product like this? So, the answer
to all those questions was yes. Fast
forward to today, I would argue AI is no
different. It's going to be a huge
market opportunity. $7 trillion of capex
as Brian you mentioned. Uh secondly, we
have a track record. We've been doing it
for a long time. Today our art
artificial intelligence infrastructure
business is $150 billion. And third, we
have interest from our clients. So when
you pull it all together, yes, it's been
a challenging endeavor over the last 18
months, but having precedence helps and
we're really excited how we can scale
this to the next level.
and and Chloe like I guess for for sec
like the challenge here is is convincing
our existing investors this is a new
strategy and and investing in it. You
had a whole different challenge which is
that um there was a slide up there that
in 2020 we had zero private wealth
clients and today we have 60,000. So you
really had to go out and and reestablish
or sorry establish our brand in that in
that market. Can you talk a little bit
about what you know we've learned over
the last couple years in that channel
and and really what's allowed you to be
so successful so quickly with a which is
really a first-time fund?
>> Uh yeah, thanks Brian and and good
afternoon everyone. Uh I I think for for
BII
it's really our platform Brookfield is
the preeeminent infrastructure manager.
We heard it from Hadley. We start with
the expertise with the flagship. We are
you know the best at what we do. uh we
have the longest history, we have uh the
most number of strategies, we have the
most consistent track records, we have
the deepest operational knowledge out
there. And that for BII is particularly
important because we are really
investing across the whole Brookfield
infrastructure platform, really the best
of Brookfield. And we're creating a
comprehensive infrastructure portfolio
across our platform for private wealth.
uh a as you mentioned you know the AI
fund in and secander is creating a new
fund strategy from deal deal deployment
we are doing it from the investor side
we are taking our platform and we're
putting it in a wrapper or in a fund
structure that we think is attractive
for private wealth so lower minimums
monthly subscriptions with immediate
access to the investments or the assets
held in the fund monthly distributions
the yield component this set of
investors likes um all with underlying
benefits of infrastructure. So, you
know, we look for downside protection in
our assets, uh that cash yield, the
stable cash flows, um inflation linkage,
uh so they get a bit of everything
there. And it's it's been a good ride.
>> And and um like obviously one of the big
challenges with private wealth is shelf
space, right? Getting getting in front
of these advisers and their clients and
um and getting the retention. We're not
the only infrastructure fund in the
private wealth channel. Can you maybe
just touch on a little bit about how we
differentiate our our vehicle and our
platform from from maybe some of the
competitors?
>> Of course, our our name, our brand, it
it really comes down to that to open
doors. It does open doors. People want
to hear from us in the infrastructure
space. Uh but when we're talking to
financial adviserss and investors, it's
it's really interesting to hear uh the
complimentary nature between what
they're looking for and what we offer
and how we invest and how we do
business.
individuals are looking for from an
infrastructure allocation are looking
for uh a product that's going to add
resilience to their portfolios. They've
seen the traditional 6040 mix wasn't as
diversified as they thought over the
last few years with things moving in the
same direction. They're looking for that
diversifier, that core allocation that
can add again that resilience in that in
their portfolio. And that's how we
approach investing. We look for the
highest quality infrastructure assets
out there with long-term contracted or
regulated revenues with investment grade
counterparties providing that stability
and then we do simple things around the
edges to add a bit of return. So this is
our bread and butter. It's that
operational value ad that we do day in
day out. Uh recapitalizing a balance
sheet, extending a contract, uh
improving supply chains. again things
that are in our nature to do. Uh so once
we have the product and the platform we
need to sell it and that's another
differentiating factor that's really led
to our success. We partnered with
Brookfield Oak Tree Wealth Solutions
which is our distribution platform for
private wealth. So I've worked with them
for a few years now. 150 strong sales
force globally. Um they are amazing.
They're knowledgeable. They want to
learn more. They really believe our
products are going to add value and
create better outcomes for individuals.
And so they're out there pushing our
message and doing a phenomenal job
getting it out there
>> and and that's really going to be the
key to again there was another slide up
there about the the 401k market and some
of the changes that are coming there.
But I you know I think you you guys have
laid the groundwork with um getting the
brand in there. But that Bose channel is
really the the key to unlocking that
401. off the back of um the good work
that the great work that Chloe and the
infrastructure team have done that your
team have done in real estate in uh
accessing uh retail wealth channels um
that have allowed us in private equity
to actually build a product now that
we're really excited about for the
wealth channel that we're able to launch
something that probably a year ago we we
would not have been able to do so it's
that kind of um capability that we have
in house that gets shared across the
platform that really helps
>> yeah Brian I would say the reason why
the AI program infrastruure program is
differentiated is because it's not a
data center fund uh which are usually
green field in nature. So there's no
yield for investors in the first few
years. Uh half of our program will be
capital partnerships with some of the
best tech firms and governments in the
world. Those are usually yielding
investments with a very strong overall
risk adjusted return. That would be a
would be a pretty good fit for the BII
product.
>> Yep. We're looking forward to it.
>> Yeah. And and and while we're not
highlighting a real estate uh fund in in
this discussion, that's exactly how the
the private wealth product that we
already have launched for real estate
works as well, which is co-investing in
in our um global opportunistic fund as
well. And and so what's really unique
about all this is is you're giving
access to um these private wealth
investors who don't typically have
access to these types of deals in a
rapper that makes sense for them. And
and I think that's that's been a you
know, a huge game chang.
>> Right. Right. Okay. So, let's talk about
deals though. Um, that's what everybody
wants to hear about, but there's
obviously been explosive growth. We talk
a little bit about the the demand and
and how we see it. But I would say every
conversation that I have with anybody
about data centers, they say, "Yeah, but
you know, what if this what if this gets
overbuilt? Like how do are we not just
running off a cliff here?" Like how do
you think about um you know, balancing
those two things that there there is
this tremendous demand out there. Um but
not to get too far ahead of ourselves.
>> Yeah. Know Brian. So, has anyone heard
the word data centers or artificial
intelligence in the last two years? Uh,
I've been around the data center
industry for 10 years, which is a
century in the in the tech and the and
the AI world. And I think about it a lot
and obviously I talk about it a lot to a
point where my 5-year-old daughter
thinks uh that every warehouse in the UK
or Europe for that matter is a data
center. And I obviously correct her and
tell her it's not a data center, it's an
AI factory. Um,
and 10 years ago in our business, I just
want to give you some context. In our
business, uh, we used to do victory laps
around the office if we signed a five
megawatt contract with a customer.
Today, some of the younger guys on the
floor don't want to get out of bed for
less than a one gigawatt deal. Uh, but
there is a reason for that. And the
reason is if you take the US as an
example, this year the US market will
add 10 gawatts of least capacity. Uh
that's unprecedented. Um the vacancy
rates in the US data center market are
less than 2 and a half%. Also
unprecedented. Uh and lastly, I would
say if you watched Oracle results last
night or if you watched the White House
tech dinner from a week ago, uh the
amount of dollars expected to be
invested in the US alone might actually
be understated uh underestimated
already. Um, so obviously the point is
the dollars are huge and there's
naturally concerns that are we going to
have over bills similar to the 1840s
when the the rail buildout in the UK led
to $25 billion of bankruptcies in
today's dollars and between 1995 to 2001
we had the dotcom bubble that led to a
lot of casualties in the fiber space. So
investors and I guess everyone at
Brookfield is is rightly thinking about
is this a bubble. The counter to that is
is three things. First is
we've had unprecedented growth or demand
in our renewable power business and our
data center business in the last two
years. But we've not invested any
capital on a speculative basis. We have
incredibly strong counterparties on the
other side of the contract and long
duration contracts 20 years plus. So
that gives us the comfort that our
capital is protected and is invested to
serve some of the most credible
companies in the world. Uh so that's the
first point. The second point I would
make is the early results of the
technology the early results from the
tech firms are quite strong. You can
read the reports this morning from what
Oracle reported last night. Microsoft
two weeks ago reported a 20% jump in its
Azour revenues thanks to incorporation
of the AI product. And similarly, Meta
reported a 20% jump thanks to AI. So my
point is we'll have to watch this
carefully, but early signs are positive.
And lastly, it's a bit of a technical
point. I do want to draw parallels to
the fiber casualties. Fiber by
definition has unlimited capacity.
That's not the case with data centers.
There's a shortage. there's a demand
supply shortage at the moment. So
anyways, Brian, so summary is yes, it is
right to be thinking about some of the
casualties and overbuilt infrastructure
capital overshooting itself, but there's
signs that uh there's lots of vitrogens
in place which give us the confidence.
>> Yeah. And we we often talk about how
there's complimentary um overlap between
the different platforms but but I when I
think of AI and and data centers in
particular like that's one area where in
a lot of our other ones we think we can
invest better because of that sharing
but here it's almost necessary right
like the the your constraint on AI is is
power and and particularly renewable
power um you need to land like maybe
just talk a little bit about how some of
the things we're doing in AI does not
actually neatly fit into just one of the
silos but really is cutting across the
whole firm. Yeah, I think absolutely.
Uh, so the way I think about this is I
use this brain and body analogy. Tech
firms are building the brain and
infrastructure investors build the body.
The brain cannot think or function
without the body. It cannot communicate.
It cannot listen. It cannot process. Um,
and what is the body, right? What's the
definition of this body? It's AI
infrastructure. It's land to Brian's
point. it's um land, it's power, it's
data centers and it's the chips and of
course the capital. So in our business
individually whether it's real estate or
renewable power uh or data centers or
infrastructure we have worldclass
businesses and the point is we want to
bring it all together. So I want to
contextualize that with an example in
north of France our real estate business
owns a very large industrial site. It's
got hundreds of acres of land. It's got
100 megawatts of power and uh we've
worked with our renewable power
colleagues to figure out a way to scale
that power from 100 megawatts to 1
gawatt. Uh we see there's a path in
doing so and on the technical side this
particular location is located within 2
to 5 millisecond latency for between
Amsterdam uh Frankfurt London and Paris
and those are the largest data center
markets in Europe. So what have we done
with that? Coming back to Brian's
question, we've taken that land plot,
that package to the French government
and the European Union who are very keen
to work on a sovereign AI project with
us. And if they're picking us because
we've got those assets and we have a
program that we can fund. So hopefully
that example helps contextualize why we
believe we are extremely well positioned
to be a big big player in the AI space.
>> Okay. And and Chloe, like Connor talked
a little bit about um how we uh use the
flagship funds to spin out strategies.
Your your your strategy is very much
that um where we're um we're touching on
it, but you're not doing every deal in
every single fund. So maybe just talk a
little bit about how we're utilizing the
platform and and then how that's a real
differentiator for for BII.
>> Yeah. So, so I think we've at Brookfield
we have a really good track record of
growing platforms, launching more
strategies. Uh, BII
is in a very fortunate position uh where
the investor base is so immense and uh
you know private wealth has very little
allocation to alts today and and the
growth could be immense there uh but we
need deal flow to pair with it. Uh so as
you say it's very important we have the
platform to invest alongside and and
keep growing uh and we will build in new
strategies like the AI fund into where
we can deploy within BII as we again
will be the best of Brookfield
infrastructure across the whole
platform. Uh but I think it's important
to note that Brookfield, you know, we've
been doing this for years, this
innovation, this growth. Uh if we just
look at infrastructure, you know, we're
not doing anything new with these new
funds. We look at deal deployment that
we don't have a pool of capital for or
investors that are looking for something
a little bit different from what we
offer today. And we pair the two
together like Sikhander spoke about. So
within infrastructure, we started with
the flagship uh fund Brookfield
Infrastructure Fund about 15 years ago.
It gave us that credibility Hadley spoke
about in the space, that knowledge, that
deep operational knowhow uh and that
presence in the market. And then we saw
an opportunity a few years later from
the deal side where as we were talking
to infrastructure owners and operators,
not all of them wanted to sell equity,
but almost all of them needed capital to
grow their businesses. And so we
launched the infrastructure credit
strategy, now the largest in for credit
strategy in the world. So that was deal
driven. And then on the investor side,
investors wanted something a little
lower risk return, more bond-like cash
flow. So we launched our supercore
infrastructure fund, uh, a perpetual
institutional offering. And then a few
years later, back on the deal side, uh,
transition. So our presence in renewable
power was so strong, we saw that
adjacent strategy in transition and we
took the opportunity to launch that uh,
which is now the largest transition
strategy in the world. uh sick Anderson
said you know as we said we saw the deal
flow as well the AI fund which BII can
invest alongside as well so again on the
deal side and BII does it all uh so it's
just so important that we have that all
wrapped up for us and that deal flow
coming in so we can raise you know all
that great capital out there
>> right okay so um Anush your group does
uh a fair bit across all the various
platforms as well like maybe just with a
couple minutes we got left here just
touch a little bit on a couple of
example examples of where private equity
similar to what what Seiko described on
uh AI has has sort of touched across the
platforms.
>> Yeah, look, we're a we're a huge
beneficiary of the overall Brookfield
ecosystem and all of our platforms. U
many of the businesses we've acquired,
we've been able to learn a lot from our
colleagues on the end markets or the
actual underlying business model. So,
Westinghouse is an example, the obvious
leader in nuclear services. Um if it
wasn't for our presence in renewable
power being the largest in the world, we
wouldn't have fully understood that
there was no transition without nuclear
uh we were able to underwrite those uh
assets on a plant-by-plant basis and
really predict those cash flows with a
whole lot of accuracy. Um, if it wasn't
for real estate, I don't think we would
have had a good understanding of the
Canadian or the Australian housing and
markets to be able to underwrite First
National, which we which we did very
recently, or the TRO, which we did a few
years ago in Australia, or Sagen, the
mortgage insurance provider that we own
also in Canada. And uh on the
infrastructure side, an acquisition we
made in January of this year um is a
company called ChemX which provides heat
tracing equipment um that is used for
pipes or other types of uh
infrastructure utility type assets to
keep what moves within the pipe at a
precise temp at a precise temperature.
Um if it wasn't for our infrastructure
colleagues who educated us on how the
mission critical critical nature of this
end product and service, we uh we
probably wouldn't have been able to
surface value there either. So, I'd say
we we having the broader platform,
having the insights and the data and the
knowledge from across the Brookville
ecosystem, it allows us to act with
conviction and often uh invest where
other and find value where others don't
see it.
>> Okay, great. So, we have three minutes
left. There's three of you and you have
a room full of investors. Um, so I'll
give you each 60 seconds to uh make your
elevator pitch on on your strategy and
ju and just really sort of highlight,
you know, what what the um the
opportunity is for uh for investors and
each and what you want to leave people
with. So Chloe, maybe
>> I'm hoping I don't need my 60 seconds.
I've already sold you all, but um for us
it has to be the platform for BI. It's
so important. Over 125 years, we've
built a platform with global scale and
reach. It allows us to be flexible. we
can look for the best riskadjusted
returns around the world. You pair that
with our operational value ad, our
expertise and it's an incredibly
powerful combination and BII gets the
benefit of all of it.
>> So, the proof is in the pudding. Um, of
all the listed asset managers, we have
the best private equity track record,
period. And uh if that interests you, I
have subscription forms with me and
we're happy to take orders.
>> That was a good one. I uh it's going to
be hard to beat that. Uh I'll go back to
my brain and body analogy. Tech firms
are building the brain. Uh they need
partners who can build the body. And I
would say in the last three to three
years, uh two things have changed. one
the AI race is not only between China
and the US alone every western nation
and select Asian economies want to
participate in it so that's changed the
dynamic a little bit second is u the
race is also between the tech firms
themselves
and so therefore and the pace of
technological innovation is
exponentially increasing literally on a
monthly basis so what that means is
three years ago the tech firms
Whilst they're building the brain, they
could pick different stakeholders to
build a body for them, assemble it, fund
it. Now, they're looking for one
partner. And as we talked about earlier,
we believe given the strength of our
platform and given the various
ingredients of the body that the tech
firms need, we're really well positioned
to capitalize on what is quite topical
at the moment.
>> Great. So, so hopefully that that gave
all of you a little more color for um
you know some of the various strategies
and the different channels that we're
we're pursuing to um to drive some of
our growth. So, thank you very much for
your time.
>> I thought they did a pretty good job.
What you think?
>> Excellent. It was awesome.
So, look, Bruce, it's been uh it's been
about 20 years since we launched our
asset management business. Um, back
then, we had a balance sheet. We were
investing in companies. We owned some
great businesses.
We were a very good investor, owner,
operator back then, and we were already
pretty successful. So, it was not an
obvious decision to become an asset
manager. And it pains me to say this,
but I remember when you wrote the
business plan, you sent it out to a
bunch of us, and I was among a couple of
us who said, "Bruce, this is crazy.
Like, why would we do all this work and
let everyone else enjoy the profits of
it?" So, uh, you were right. I was
wrong. That's why we have this amazing
business today. Uh but I think people
would really like to hear uh why we
chose to start raising money from
institutions, investing our capital
beside them.
>> Yeah. May maybe in hindsight it was uh
crazy at the time. Uh but I look I think
um
it goes back f firstly uh and you all
know this but I'm going to say it is
change is always um really
uncomfortable.
Uh but being uncomfortable is what makes
great businesses and which makes life
exciting. And um what most companies do
is they just sit around. they have a
great business and they just keep doing
exactly what they're doing.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh often people then do dumb things
and they maybe change and and uh and and
make big big mistakes. But if you can
incrementally
uh change over time um it's tremendously
valuable to evolve the business because
if you don't end up like Kodak uh or
many many businesses um that have
happened in time but but if you go I'd
say if you if you reflect back at that
time Cyrus um probably the most
important thing that we
um have always adhered to is uh if
you're in the types of businesses that
we're in um you need scale amounts of
money and I I probably the number one
thing the reason was that um it wasn't
that we were going to really create the
asset management business that has been
created. It was that we needed access to
do the things we wanted to do and to
execute the business plan of of
internationalizing the business, going
to other countries and building out that
you needed to have access to capital.
And it was the glimmer of hope at that
time was that we could access
international pools of money on a
private basis and deploy it into these
types of assets. And um of course 25
years later the uh the it's it's a
highly um uh uh the business is high
highly institutionalized then there was
no business and as you remember Cyrus we
actually had to make it up like
literally made it up as we went along.
And I look at our team now they're
highly professional and do an incredible
job. We were making up I'm embarrassed.
We probably have our presentations from
25 years ago and they're they're
embarrassing compared to what uh gets
done today.
Um and I would just the last thing I'd
say Sai is uh I I I think the the two
things that the team talked about
earlier which is what's happening with
retail wealth today and what we're we'll
talk about this afternoon um uh the
insurance sector and what we're doing
insurance are two
uh similar junctures
of what's going on with our business
that are almost exactly the same as what
happened 25 years ago
>> because the retirement markets and
retail wealth were at the early early
early early innings of that change and
that's going to be like the
institutional markets over the last 25
years and and the insurance business for
us is going to be uh incredibly
uh changing to the company. So I think
both of those things are really really
exciting. Well, you you use the term
we've institutionalized
uh our processes and our business and I
agree 100%. And um one of the themes
that I heard today from everyone who
spoke is you know we have deep operating
expertise, operational capability. Um
and that that's something that as I said
earlier I think we had that 25 years
ago. So we learned a lot being an owner
operator. And how do you think that's
helped us manage money for institutions
and clients?
>> Yeah, look, you were uh you were deep in
the businesses for decades. Uh what do
you think?
Well, it's it's like you said, I'd say
uh uh early on we probably didn't know
as much and over time through trial and
error and very good advice from our
predecessors
uh we learned the basics and we codified
them. Um, we we we
created processes to make sure people
followed the right process when we
bought a business, what to do with the
business, uh, how to put how to choose a
great management team, how to choose the
right strategy,
etc., etc., etc., and how to focus on
the right KPIs. These are things, at
least when I started, we didn't really
>> Yeah. And and you know I look I would
also say that um it's foundational
are uh some of the things we got right
um maybe as opposed to you could have
gone a different way um we didn't uh
change for the marketing purposes.
>> Yeah. uh when we started and and uh you
will remember and some others here in
the room that work with us over that
period would remember our marketing
people told us the only way to sell
funds is to do this.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And uh and we said well we're not doing
it that way. Our our we invest and we're
going to invest and if people want to
come to us with us they will invest with
us. And I think that was probably the
probably one of the more f foundational
things we decided to do, which was we're
in the and this is subtle, but we're in
the business of investing
>> and we invest our money and we bring
along others that want to invest with us
in our strategies.
That's very different than some money
can get raised and uh we're going to try
to put it to work. Uh, and it's it's
it's behind the scenes and it but it's
it's it's it's subtle but it's extremely
important because what it means is that
we believe in everything that we invest
into. We put our money both our money uh
our other shareholders money and our
clients money into the exact same
things. and and that that probably
probably was that that's what um that I
think that's the reason for a 25-y year
track record that is is really good and
that people can invest with us which
gives us the basis to do all the things
for the future. Yeah. And it was it was
really led to we we we actually run
these businesses and we own them and
we're it's not sometimes you get lost in
the numbers but these are just companies
with people and you're just trying to
provide essential services to people
around the world. It's not that hard but
it's foundational to make sure that you
don't take stupid risks and do dumb
things uh in the company.
>> We have better marketing people today
than back then.
Um, look, we we had the opportunity to
work with, say, the prior generation of
leaders at Brookfield and what key
lessons do you think they passed down
that are still relevant to us today?
Look, I I think all of the things, in
fact, led by Jack Cochwell, who who um
is still on our board and he's in his
80s and uh and not actively involved,
but is uh I'd say set many many of the
things that I I think he'd be okay
hearing me. Hopefully, he's not
listening. If he doesn't like it,
>> he's listening. Uh but uh
>> Jack
>> I I would say
I I I would say that um I think he set
many of these principles. I think we
refined them, tailored them, built them,
institutionalized them and made them
better and they were um
make sure that everyone all of our
people the companies we buy are incented
uh properly that we're incented properly
and that everyone is an owner of the
business. Number two, that we only buy
things that we can understand, that we
can build and we can grow and we can be
responsible for and we we can be proud
of owning. And number three, um,
foundationally have more capital than
anybody else and build businesses off of
that. And never ever ever get yourself
in a situation where you don't have
capital when things are going down
because that's when you know this,
Cyrus, better than anyone. you've been
the most you you bought the best
businesses at the worst times
um in the markets, but we had to have
the capital to be able to do it. And and
that having capital um and never putting
yourself in a situation where you don't
where you're um uh you're not on the on
the offensive, not defensive, at uh in
tough times is really really valuable.
I'd say those three things are probably
the most important.
And look, we we are uh super fortunate.
We we have a lot of people here who have
been here for a very long time. Uh and
and I think that's helped maintain our
culture immensely over many years. So,
how would you describe our culture,
Bruce, to other people?
>> Uh
it's it it's unusual. like it it's not
um not an easily explainable thing, but
uh I I guess I'm proud that firstly as
you go as you get bigger and bigger,
it's tougher. It's usually tougher and
tougher and it probably is. There's no
doubt. um because we had
10 people before and now we have 2,500
or 3,000 in our investment manager and
it's just tough to keep the uh that but
but I I I'm spend a lot of time in all
the offices around the world and it's
amazing the people are they're not the
same but they're similar and uh so I
think that's really important but I I
underlying it essentially we uh have a
team approach uh the team matters more
than any individual, you will be
successful and be rewarded um if you're
part of a team.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you're uh in some way, shape or form,
depending on where you are in the
company, whether you're an operating
person, executive, individual, you're an
entrepreneur. Uh you're an investor in
the business. We are all investors.
That's it. We But we're all
entrepreneurs and we're just here
because we have our money invested and
we feel like it's ours. It's not ours.
It's not our company. It's it's the
shareholders company, but we're all
shareholders and we all feel like it's
ours and uh
>> think and act like an owner, right?
>> Yeah. it it and it so it just and I'd
say that that pervades the the people
within our business and and and we try
to encourage
and and many of you have heard me say
this before um we try to encourage
making incremental
I evolutionary changes in the business
because that is if you don't change you
go backwards. But what that means is
that you're always making mistakes. And
it's not um not that we like making
mistakes, but you have to accept within
the culture
um m some mistakes and not have
ramifications
of it or nobody is everyone if not
people are petrified to change and
petrified to do something new. And um
but never make big big mistakes like
don't bet the farm on anything. You um
know that better than anyone. We've
always tried to keep the downside
protected. Um but but you have to push
the edges or nothing changes. You know,
we we have we have and to use example
Caner was up here. We have the most
incredible franchise on the planet for
infrastructure. There's nothing that
comes close to it. We could just sit
aside, run our fund, and do nothing
else. And we keep pushing the edges
because
I I believe we're in the midst of this
AI revolution that is going to happen.
It's going to change every single
business in the world. It's incredible
what's going to happen and we need to be
at at the forefront of it.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh if we're not, we'll be behind
five years from now. We'll look back and
we'll be behind.
>> So it's really really important. And I'd
say those are the I'd say those are the
things in the culture.
Look, you you talked about when we
started we had 10 20 people, whatever it
was. I I remember the entire investment
team could fit in a boardroom at one
point in time and today we have 2500
3,000 investment people. Uh Connor
talked about uh the scaling up we plan
for the future. So
my question for you is do you think
there was a seinal moment or a couple of
seminal moments or events that really
accelerated our trajectory?
Yeah. Look, I I think uh during good
times everyone excels.
During tougher times,
uh Mr. Buffett always said it. you see
who the when the tide goes out, you see
who's wearing
>> underwear.
>> Yeah.
>> Or whatever the statement is.
>> Um I think during
uh during the tough times over the last
30 years is when
uh we've been able to at a minimum
continue to grow to continue the
business that we have.
>> Yeah.
But um but in particular in 2008, we
came out of 20089
on a very strong basis and were able to
um propel the business when everyone was
in was just they they weren't even in
business anymore.
>> Yeah.
>> Some went out of business, a lot went
out of business. Um but the others were
were not able to to to go grow fast. Um
I think we came out of CO we firstly we
all went back to the office in CO. It
was the best thing we ever did. Uh three
weeks after COVID hit, we went back to
the office and it was the best thing we
ever did because we were working every
day three weeks after CO started.
Firstly, it was more fun being at the
office and sitting at home. But um uh I
think we've done five things since then
that will be gamechanging for the
business five years from now. A number
of them happened during that period of
time. Like our insurance business is
Satchin's going to show you later. It's
going to earn$2 and half billion dollars
next year. It was zero and started in
COVID. So, um, I think those tougher
periods of time are where are where
they're the ones that make the
difference in a business because you
either go backwards or you or you can
make great advances forward and culture
matters in in those periods of time too.
>> Um, you Bruce, you you started
at Brookfield in our real estate
business. You ran our real estate
business for a long period of time.
you've seen many cycles, many events in
real estate.
Where where do you think we are today in
the cycle and what are the opportunities
that you see in real estate? So, so
before I answer that question, I was I
was listening to uh uh some of the
presentations earlier and I I think
probably one of the most important
things of what's going on with
artificial intelligence is that we
started as real estate investors. um
what what's being built out for
artificial intelligence is the backbone
of the global economy and really it's
just a giant real estate business and uh
because what we're doing is we're
providing
enormous infrastructure backbone
infrastructure to technology companies
and the buildout is unprecedented and
and the fact that we have power real
real estate power and data center
expertise allows us to build those
things out but it's really the all of
those things are backed off of what we
learned out of real estate.
>> And I think so I think that's really
really important when you just think
about um what we're embarking on in AI
factories because this is just real
estate. Um sounds more complicated than
that but it it is just real estate. If
if I go to the cycles, look,
everyone knows this. I'm going to state
it. Real estate is a highly cyclical
business. It always has been and always
will be. um because it uh consumes large
large sums of money and you lever it to
get uh returns but over time you can
make a lot of money if you buy great
assets and if you um are in the right
places if the most fundamental things
and I I would say f first point number
one fundamentals real estate globally
and most things are really strong uh yes
there's always some extreme stuff that's
out there that's not so positive. Uh
this time, this cycle, and each one's
different. Each cycle has been different
for 30 years. Um this time, fundamentals
are good. The issue has been in the
capital structures and um and and
interest rates went up fast and went to
they're not high, but they're much
higher than they were. And therefore,
people had to adjust their capital
structures to it. and those things are
sorting out in the marketplace. But as
Brian um uh said earlier um and as
Connor said in his presentation, the the
real estate fundamentals have turned
dramatically in the last 12 months.
Transaction activities come back.
Doesn't mean everything's there, but but
you can now finance virtually everything
in real estate across the world. and the
and real estate lives on financing and
uh and and it's just turning in 100
basis points coming off of interest
rates in the next 12 18 months. uh in
the United States, most other markets
have already turned much greater, but in
the US, it's really just waiting for
interest rates and uh you will see some
of that come and and uh and drive the
recovery even further in values
>> and there aren't too many cranes in
>> there are there are no cranes. I'm going
to look at somebody. Is there a real
estate building any major building under
construction in New York City? In
London, there's small buildings in the
West End. There's nothing really under
construction in the city. What that
means is next 5 years rents going
through the roof. Retail nothing under
construction. Industrial highly move
come down. Um so um it's about supply
demand interest rates and financing and
it's all coming back. Okay. I want to
switch gears a little and talk about uh
capital markets. And I I might get the
number slightly wrong, but if you if you
look over 25 years,
25 years ago, there were 7,000
public companies in the United States.
Today, the number is something like
4,500.
>> Yeah.
>> In the private markets,
uh 25 years ago, there were 2,000
companies owned in the private markets.
Today, it's more than 10,000. So, what's
what's happened?
What's going on here?
>> Look, you and I uh own Brookfield
shares. We've never sold them. We just
keep them. We own a business.
Uh why would we sell? Why? Why? Like,
and and that's with a private business,
right? If you own a business, you own a
store. We own instead of at Brookfield,
we're going to own a store. We own a
store. We run the store. We don't look
at the stock market price of our store
every day. We don't care. We're not
selling it. We operate our store, right?
>> The stock market just distracts people.
And and uh and with the ETF market,
active management uh
in many places going down, ETFs taking
over, it changes the value of stocks and
many of them don't trade properly. That
presents enormous opportunity. I think I
we've probably taken 10 companies
private in the last 12 months. That's
going to continue to increase. We're
going to keep taking more companies
private. Once in a while, we'll take one
public where it makes sense, but by and
large, not. And I'd say when people say,
"Oh, there's going to be more IPOs."
There's not. There will be some IPOs,
but but more companies are just going to
be sold to our institutional clients and
to other sponsors. And people say, "Oh,
that doesn't make sense because some
sponsor is going to buy it from you." I
I I'd argue the opposite. It makes total
sense. Those are smart owners who want
to buy a business and own it for the
next 10 years, right?
>> Instead of taking it public, why have it
in the public market? So, I think it's
>> there are there'll be the global titans
that are just too large to be private,
you know, like Microsoft $4 trillion
business. Of course, that's not going to
be private. And maybe that'll trade well
because it's in the indexes uh and it's
large, but by and large the rest of it's
all staying private. And and remember
these institutional clients in
particular
when I back when we were seeing them 25
years ago, they had a big one had 80 or
100 billion dollars. But we're 25 years
later. Those institutions have 500
billion, 700 billion, 900 billion, a
trillion dollars. And a trillion is
going to end up at
in 8, 8, nine years at their returns. It
doubles.
When you have two trillion,
>> two trillion,
>> two trillion goes to four trillion. Four
trillion goes to 8 trillion.
This is these are staggering amounts of
money that need to get put in places.
And if you don't need the if you don't
need liquidity, own a private business.
There's no reason not to.
>> So what about you talked about
institutions. What about an individual
investor? What does it mean for them?
>> I I think people are going to end up
with uh that's why the United States is
opening up 401ks.
um they're gonna end up with 40% of
their portfolio in privates and 40% will
be in in ETFs and liquid stocks because
they should have some form of liquidity
within every portfolio and the rest of
it's going to be in private. So I I
where some will be at like some
institutions they are 50 60% in private.
Uh I would advocate always do advocate
to anybody that ever asks me have
liquidity for whatever you might need.
double it because you might have a a
need that's in excess of what you ever
what you think you need and everything
else should be in private and that's
what's going to happen that's what's
happened and happening in every
institution in the world and that is
what's going to happen in retirement
accounts so I think the you know hardly
I think the number was 20 trillion of
retirement wealth around the world
three five 10 15 trillion of that is
going going to go into private assets
and it's going to be from real estate to
infrastructure to uh companies owned in
private hands and and they'll be better
for it. Much much better for it.
>> Okay, one we have time. One more
question. What What are you most excited
about, Bruce? You sit here today.
>> Uh you know, Cyrus, I get excited about
everything. Um I look I I uh
>> everything with a Brookfield in front of
it.
>> Yeah. I I uh I what I'm most excited
about I I actually watched our team up
here earlier and they're so much better
than you and I were. Um like they're
they're uh smarter, better trained.
They've seen everything. We can help
them, but they're amazing. And so I I'm
excited about the future of what
Brookfield has because the people we
have are incredible. And uh and
therefore that's probably the most uh
exciting thing that we uh have which is
just to watch that uh you know the next
generation of people come along.
>> So we're going to keep our shares.
>> You're definitely keeping your shares.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you. Sorry.
>> Thank you. All right.
[Applause]
