Hey everyone, we now have playwright
agents, the next step in MCP evolution.
Agents can generate a test plan, then
generate tests based on that plan, and
if those tests don't pass, a healer
agent can debug and fix them. Let's dive
in and take a look.
To get started, run npx playright init-
aents-loop
equals and choose the loop you want. I'm
using VS Code, but you could also use
clawed or open code.
This will generate the agents for you
along with a seed file. The seed file is
used to seed your test and will be
copied into your tests by the agent. You
can leave it blank, but if you have
fixtures or setup tests that need to run
before the test, this is where you add
them. In my movies app, I have a fixture
that creates a page with a list of
movies. I want this to be the starting
point for my tests. I've already created
it, so I'll paste it in here. You can
see I'm importing the list test for my
helpers and setting the page to the list
page fixture.
Let's run this to check if it works.
I'll run my setup test first to log the
site and click show browser to see the
test in action and make sure the agent
can access the movie list page.
It logged in, created a list, and added
three movies with images. Perfect. My
seed test passes. Let's uncheck show
browser and setup as we are using
storage state. So next time we run our
tests, it will already run from a logged
in state. Now we can commit those
changes and start working with our
agent.
The first agent we'll use is the
playright planner agent.
We want to create a test plan for our
movies list. Let's ask it to generate a
plan for managing the movies list and
save it as movies list plan in the specs
folder.
You can see I have the seed file open.
So, it's been added to the context,
meaning the agent can access it. I've
sped this part of the video up, but you
can see the Playright planner agent
navigates to the site, logs in, creates
the list page with three movies, and
then continues to explore the website,
analyze the managing list feature, and
generates a test plan.
Here it is. The test plan looks amazing
and with a lot of scenarios that could
be tested.
I could generate everything in it, but
let's just pick one section. Adding
movies to a list and generate tests for
that.
First, let's commit the plan. Then open
chat mode and select the playright
generator agent.
We'll start a new chat for a clean
context. And you can see the movies list
plan has been added to the chat context.
Now, let's ask our playright generator
agent to generate tests from the test
plan for the section we selected
earlier.
I've sped this part up again, but you
can see how it's navigating to the site
and running through each of the
scenarios from the plan, checking
through the logs before it generates any
test files.
And here we go. Three test files.
Amazing.
Looking at them, you can see on the
first line of the test that the page
equals the list page. That means my
fixture from the seed file was correctly
used when generating each of the tests.
They look great.
Let's commit them and then run them.
It looks like a couple of tests passed,
but one is timing out.
The error says the locator click target
page context or browser has been closed.
We could debug manually or debug with
AI, but instead let's use the playright
healer agent. We can start a new chat,
choose the Playright healer agent, and
ask it to fix the failing test.
I've sped this part up, too. The
playright healer agent ran the test in
debug mode, checked the console logs and
network responses, and noticed the test
was looking for a movie called
Inception, which didn't exist in the
API. It confirmed the API was working
and returning movies. But since
Inception wasn't one of them, it
selected a different movie that did
exist. Impressive.
The debugging has finished and the test
is now working. Looking at the git diff,
you can see inception was replaced with
a search for inside and it verified the
movie inside out 2 was visible. Looks
great.
Let's run the test ourselves to verify.
And it works. The playright healer agent
has done its job and fixed the test. Now
we can run all our tests just to be
sure. And they all pass.
This is pretty amazing. We can commit
these changes and continue generating
more tests from the plan. And that's it.
That's playright agents, playright
planner, playright generator, and
playright healer. I hope you've enjoyed
this video. Remember to start using
Playright agents. Update Playright to
the latest version by running mpm
install-d
playride/test at latest and then run the
agents command with your chosen loop mpx
playright init- aents-l
equals vs code claw or open code. Happy
testing with AI and playride agents.
