He explained that he did not want
the Clarity Act to be signed at the moment,
that is, in its current state. According to him, there's really, really
no way it can
happen under these conditions.
The United States seized almost
$1 billion from Iran according to
Besent, Besent, I don't know. Well, as we've
already discussed, the United States
seized $550 million from Iran
through USDT. Then we learn that it's
almost a billion. Do you realize how
crazy this is? The
United States can freeze
assets. They are going to war against a
country they have attacked. They use
their financial law to consider
these financial flows prohibited. Can you
imagine the situation? It's really like
you go to war with a country and
that country freezes your bank accounts. On one
hand, it's terribly serious. On the
other hand, it makes you want to say to
all those who are surprised,
"Wake up, of course
money is a weapon." And when you
have someone's money, you
belong to them or at least you are giving them
a part of their trust. In
this instance, they held Iran; they
had 500 million USDT. And
obviously, of all the bombs you
can drop on Iran, freeze and
recover, seize 550 million from
a country you are at war with, that's
really, well, that's a hell of a
warhead you're sending them. And what's
more, you're the one who gets to collect them. You are
justice after all. So you could, I don't know,
integrate them into your
reserves. Space X, Open AI, it sounds like I've taken on
the voice of an
announcement commentator. 3M IPOs
threaten crypto liquidity for
two reasons. The first reason is that
when there are so many opportunities,
it's the same in the stock market as in
the world of cryptocurrency.
New cryptocurrencies absorb the
liquidity of older ones. It's
exactly the same in the stock market. These
new companies will attract
money from
risk-taking investors and therefore
potentially withdraw some of the
liquidity. The first thing is this. There will
be people who will switch from one
risky asset to another. And there is a
second thing that is relatively
important in this, which is that you have to
understand that in the NASDAQ, certain
companies that arrive and are
sufficiently capitalized will enter
the NASDAQ. And when it
automatically enters the
Nasdaq selection, I believe it's the Nasdaq 100
or the Nasdaq 200, NASDAQ 100. Well, that
forces funds of funds to reinvest
liquidity. It's a bit like if
I tell you there are 100 companies, you
invest 100 million, you put 1
million into each company. Well, if
new companies get involved
, it will take
money away from some companies and
reallocate it. And within these companies,
there are many, many, many who
are indirectly exposed to
cryptocurrencies. So this mega giga
week, I think it's June 12th
for SpaceX and then it will run through
the month of June if I'm not
mistaken. There's a real chance that a couple of things will go wrong
. Jimmy
Damon, CEO of JP Morgan, who has always
been opposed to cryptocurrencies and who
is now still the CEO of a
bank that is one of the most active
in the world of cryptocurrency. "It's still the height of absurdity," he
explained,
and he directly attacked
Coinbase CEO Brian Armstrong. He
explained that he did not want the
Clarity Act to be signed at the moment,
that is, in its current state. According to him, there's really, really
no way it can
happen under these conditions. For what ?
Because Clarity Acts
conditions people who have stable
coins to receive interest. As you
understand, they don't want that to
be the case because the banks
want you to keep the money with
them and therefore they absolutely do not want
another company or
stablecoins to be able to give you
returns themselves. Otherwise, what's the point of
having a bank if you can generate
interest indirectly? That's pretty much
the model. The CFTC approves the
first regulated Bitcoin perpetual contract
in the United States; it is
Coinbase, which is primarily a crypto company,
that has just been granted the right to offer
perpetuals, therefore
leveraged products on Bitcoin. Wait, I'm talking
nonsense. I'm talking nonsense.
Giving the green light to a
Calchi product, sorry, and paving the way for
similar listings by Coinbase, my bad
. On the other hand, it's crazy
because we're starting to see
prediction markets
offering products for pairs.
Because actually, it's funny, but here
we see a merge of two worlds, we see
sites like Calchi or Poly Market
which are predictive events,
marketplaces of predictive events.
So, you can bet on whether
the war will be over by such and such a date?
Is this person going to be elected
president, regardless of any
facts, any events? So
, can you say whether Bitcoin will
reach a certain price in a week? And
so, you can create a
financial product. These two worlds are, well, sort of, getting apart
. And that's
precisely one of the areas where Hyperliquid
is gaining a significant
advantage. But I think at some
point there will be a law, a country or
financial giants that will
directly target Hyperliquid, that
will say "We can't let this
company take market share from us without any authorization
." So we're going to
use our financial power to
get an arrest warrant overturned. We'll
wait until the CEO of Hyperliquide goes
to a small crypto event and then we'll come down on
him with an
arrest warrant and lock him up. For failure to
comply with the financial regulations of our
country. It will most likely be a country with
very strong global power that will do it, for
example, Portugal. No way. It will
obviously be the United States that will do
this and at some point there will be
no limits. But anyway, the law is
so vague, you can do pretty much whatever
you want in your interpretation
that I wouldn't want to sleep as the
CEO of Hyper Liquid, you know. Stable Coin Pax
SOS becomes the first
blockchain company to obtain approval
from the SEC. Basically, they become a
clearing house. It's funny,
but the work he was doing for
stablecoins, you hold reserves, you
issue stablecoins and you allow
clearing, they just did that,
but today they can clear
other things besides stablecoins.
This is just one example, I'm going through it
very quickly to show you that it
goes in all directions and not just in terms of
payment methods
or anything else. There really is
a, let's say a crossroads between the
world of traditional finance and
blockchain which continues to become
even more prominent. After Kraken Ledger and Bit
Panda, and I'm just adding this one
, crypto giant Grcale is postponing
its IPO. Yes,
yes, yes, yes. The crypto timing window
has closed. Whether it's
token launches or
IPOs, companies reschedule and
postpone entry because, well, there's no point in
entering at a time when everyone will only be interested in
AI stocks
and there will be no interest in
cryptos. Why is the company
buying back these bonds rather
than Bitcoin? Is this a
change of direction for the Treasure
Ric Company? I answered that in
this video. I'll put the link here.
Basically, she explained that when its
price was relatively low, and
it has since recovered a bit, at its
lowest point it
was at $106, it
rebounded to $122 and now it is
at $160. It did, however, reach
$200 on May 11. Not bad, Sailor. In
this case, they have a Manave of 125
and from 122, they said,
below 122, it is better to buy back
our debt. Above that, it's better to
buy Bitcoin. So, if
you're interested, I'm sharing this video
which was quite successful and which
generally
explains why Microstratégie is
making a move which I think is very
clever. The markets got scared, they
made a lot of money all at once.
Now, what people are afraid of is that they'll
fall flat on their faces.
So, what are they doing? Well,
it's very simple, they start by
reducing their liabilities, reducing their
debts. Record start for the
Hype Spot ETF which already concentrates 1% of
its market capitalization. Indeed, they were
listed on Bitwise and on 21 shares.
It's not much yet
, but in total, it still amounts to
$136 million that has been
invested in Hyper Liquid since
an ETF was listed on the market.
Guess what? This greatly benefits
the price of the token, which is currently at $70 per
coin. However, we are starting to
get into a situation where the thing is worth 66
billion dollars. He's put a lot of
projects on hold. It's when it's
fast that it's violent.
Ondinance founder Nathan Alman Hman
has passed away. We don't have the
details yet. In fact, this is one of the
largest protocols for tokenizing
real assets. One of its competitors
is Xtox, which I featured on my
channel. I also briefly mentioned Ondo
. He died at the age of 30,
if I'm not mistaken, 32 years old. We don't have
the details yet. However, it's
quite crazy and it's still
quite rare for a person
so exposed to encounter a problem like that
. This has caused quite a stir
in the crypto ecosystem. This is news
that is quite rare and in this case, we don't
really have the details of
his death. So I think we'll have that
in the coming months. In any
case, the foundation spoke out and the
protocol received a lot of
community support, even some
stock market support and increased in
value. So, best wishes to his
loved ones and may the project bounce back
following the loss of its CEO. Bitcoin
falls out of the top 10 global assets.
Is this normal? We're going to do
a very, very simple, very
thorough analysis because, as you'll see, I
'm a particularly
precise person. Tech stocks are increasing
in value. The world is uncertain.
Gold is still highly capitalized.
All actions related to
artificial intelligence are
valued. Bitcoin is losing value.
Why did Bitcoin drop out of the top 10? A
mixture of all of that. Trump will
never abandon crypto. I don't even
want to read this article. All I
want to tell you is that Trump is
starting to make some
pretty virulent, very strong statements,
saying that he will never give up on
cryptocurrency, that for him it
really is the Eldorado that he won't let go of,
that it's the fight to take and that it was
the turning point not to miss. It didn't do anything
at all during the lesson. Not even a
little, not even slightly, nothing at all. This shows that
Trump's positive outlook on
cryptocurrencies has faded. Well,
now good news about the
war in Iran or bad news
will move the markets as a
whole. But in any case,
simply saying good things about Bitcoin, where at
the time it created a tidal wave
upwards, is no longer the case.
And now, my friends, this is the news, the news that's one too many
. So, why is this one piece of news too many
? Because I see this news
, it's been picked up by everyone.
I'm not pointing the finger at the local newspaper at all
. Kisses, friends. Everyone took it
. This is the news that shows us we're at the very, very end
. We don't have much left to talk about
. We are currently hitting the
bottom in terms of interest. Tesla and
SpaceX, at least in
Elon Musk's speech, seem to be the subject of a
rapprochement. Perhaps Elon Musk
planned to bring the two structures together, to
merge them, to do something like that
, but you get the idea
of ​​transforming two legal entities into
one. Both hold
Bitcoin. Basically, if you read
the article and if you read all the
articles, the merger of these two
companies would create an entity with
more than 30,000 Bitcoin, placing Musque
among the largest
corporate holders of Bitcoin. Basically,
imagine you have a top 20 company
that holds Bitcoin, a
top 30 company, one with 15,000, one with
16,000, and
one with 14,000. Then you say that if the
two merge, well, that makes
one with 30,000 and you say "We're going to have a
new giant holding [something]". No,
it's just two big companies that
already have them and if you add
the two together, well, it's a lot, that's
all. It's like there's a
BlackRock and MicroStrategy merger,
all the Bitcoin that's going to happen. Yeah,
but that doesn't change anything. Finally, overall,
if it happens tomorrow, it's not going to change
much on the price of Bitcoin,
really. 107 Bitcoin parties up in smoke,
folks. Someone sent 107
Bitcoin to a burn address,
that is, an address for which no one
has the private key, an address from which
theoretically no one can recover
the lost bitcoins. It makes money.
$8 million that were
sent just like that. Some say they were
sent there as a kind
of bounty for those who might
one day master
quantum computing and retrieve them. Others
say it was
mathematically resolved because there were
several wallets that made a
transfer to the same address. It's a bit like
someone 5 or 8 years ago
setting something up like, if I don't log into
my wallet for 8 years.
Sending all my Bitcoin there to
consider them lost, even if
I don't have them or I'm
dead, and even if nobody else has them
. For example, my latest news item has been
so augmented by
artificial intelligence that it's cannibalizing everything else. In
this video, I really focus
on something crazy that's happening
and that's transforming all
mining farms.
Artificial intelligence is
pumping all the electricity that is
in industries and in the
electricity production destined for the data
center. And overall what you will
learn about Bitcoin, about the market,
but especially about
electrical installations and what will happen
in the next three years, I think
you will find very interesting.
Friends, tomorrow there is the second edition
of Snapchat, the newsletter that we put
online last month with Gaetan and
which covers all the blockchain
and crypto news in a very condensed way. In 5
minutes, you really get an overview
of everything that happened across all
segments. More macro, crypto focus,
Tech focus, hack focus. The first
edition went very, very well. There were a huge number
of registrations. To
give you an idea,
almost 20,000 of you have already signed up for this
newsletter in less than 30 days. Thank you to
everyone who registered and
received it. I'm actually going to post a
short message about that on Twitter.
And the second edition arrives tomorrow. We
adapted some topics, we changed a few
things. I hope you
like it. At this rate, we'll quickly
become the biggest
French-language news newsletter. If we manage to get 20,000
subscribers to be market at a time when there is
no interest in cryptos,
let me tell you that as soon as
cryptos take off, it will very
quickly become a reference newsletter.
So thank you for the time you
dedicated to this and I hope
you will enjoy tomorrow's edition,
friends. This concludes our live news coverage.
