Hi, welcome to the Grafana Alloy for Beginners
series. My name is Mischa Thompson and I'm a
Senior Software Engineer at Grafana. In the
previous episode, we talked about ingesting
and exporting traces to Tempo. In this episode,
we will cover ingesting and processing logs that
come over the network. These episodes build
on one another. Before starting this episode,
make sure you've watched episodes one through ten
and completed Alloy configuration sections one
through five in the repo. To get started, open the
Grafana Alloy for Beginners repo, and scroll down
to section six. As a quick reminder, each section
contains the starter code, tasks that explain
what you'll need to do, and a solution with the
finished version. If you haven't already, fire up
the learning environment and open config.alloy.
I'll go over the logs pipeline we'll be building
visually and then walk through the solution. Feel
free to give it a try on your own first and then
compare with the solution once you're finished.
Let's go over the logs pipeline will be building
today. Our mythical microservices are already
configured to send their logs to Alloy, and we're
going to configure Alloy to receive, process,
and send them to Loki. We have our environment
set up this way for the demo to show you how to
use Alloy to process logs. Receiving logs of the
network is sometimes done when using two layers
of collectors - one to collect telemetry and the
other to process it. First, the logs are sent over
HTTP from the applications to the loki.source.api
component, sort of like how it might send it
to Loki. This component acts as the entry point
for our logs. The loki.source.api component,
then forwards those logs to the loki.process
component. This is where we'll process the logs
through a pipeline of stages, extracting key
information like timestamps and adding labels.
Finally, the processed logs are sent to the
loki.write component. This is the final step in
our pipeline where the logs are exported to our
locally running Loki instance for storage and
querying. Here's a visual of the loki.process
component, which is where we'll process our logs
with a series of stages. You can see how the
logs will flow from top to bottom. First, we'll
add a static label to every log to identify its
source. Then we'll use a regex stage to extract
the timestamp. Finally, we'll use a timestamp
stage to properly parse that timestamp and set
it for the logline. This three stage pipeline
will prepare our logs for writing to Loki.
To configure the first part of our pipeline,
we'll use the loki.source.api component. In the
http block, we set it to listen for incoming log
traffic on all network interfaces (0.0.0.0)
on port 3100. This is the port where our
applications are currently sending their logs.
Finally, the forward_to argument directs all
received logs to our loki.process component,
which is the next stage in our pipeline.
For the loki.process component, which we've named
"mythical", we're setting up a processing pipeline
with three stages. First, the stage.static_labels
block adds a service label with the value mythical
to every logline. This helps us identify the
source of our logs later in Loki. Next, the stage
.regex block uses a regular expression to extract
the timestamp from the logline and saves it to a
temporary field called loggedtime. Finally, the
stage.timestamp block tells Alloy to use the
value from our temporary log time field that we
just extracted as the official timestamp for the
log line, parsing it using this specified format.
This ensures that our logs have the correct time
in Loki. The forward_to argument sends these
fully processed logs to the loki.write.mythical
component we defined in section one, which we
will write them to Loki. Once you're finished,
don't forget to reload the configuration to make
sure that it's applied. Once you're finished,
scroll down to the verification section
and navigate to the dashboards tab. Open
up section six verification, and you should be
able to see both the requester logs, server logs,
as well as the rate of logs coming in at the
different levels. In this episode, we began
ingesting application logs sent over the network,
processing them and shipping them to Loki. In
the next episode, we'll build a pipeline for
generating logs from traces with Grafana Alloy.
