Hello and [music] welcome to this
special conversation hosted by the CFA
Institute Research and Policy Center.
I'm Mona Naki, uh, managing director for
research, advocacy, and standards here
and head of the RPC, the research and
policy center. I'm thrilled to be joined
today by Roger Irwin who is head of
investment content globally for Willis
Towers Watson and a longtime friend and
partner of CFA Institute and we're going
to be talking about the topic that's on
so many asset owners minds today and
that is TPA the total portfolio approach
of which Roger has been a leading
architect over the past several decades.
Roger welcome to the podcast.
>> Delighted to be here Mona. Well, Roger,
uh, I I'd be remiss not to start with
your incredible background and
contributions to the investment industry
over the last several decades. You are
known to many, but there are maybe some
listeners out there who know your work,
but maybe don't know that you're the man
and the genius behind them. So, why
don't we start by walking us through
your career to date, how we got here,
and your role within the investment
industry.
>> Uh, that's a big question. Um, I have
been around for a long time. uh my the
first part of my industry background was
in consulting. I stepped away from that
to do asset management. I was head of
quant at uh an investment organization
in the 1980s. That was Gartmore. In the
end, it became Henderson. But um it
actually kind of gave me a lot more of a
clue as to why I love this industry. And
it is because it's just so full of
fascinating perspectives and people and
it's been a thrilling challenge all the
way. So I started up the WTW investment
consulting business in 1989. I was
employee number one and I took it
through to um a position where it was
fairly close to about a thousand people
um as at 2010.
And my work that was as a global head of
a business and it was contributing a lot
of thinking, thought leadership and
client stuff. And then at that point I
started to maybe run out of steam a bit
and I thought I want to commit my time
just to clients and just to thought
leadership. And that's what I've done
for the last 15 years at WTW. We founded
the think ahead institute which many
people know as one of the big think
tanks actually trying to create new
avenues for the investment industry to
pursue in the next coming years. And
there's so much change that it's a very
uh a very resonant place for new
thinking to to u to be occupied. And
when I look at it, um, I've got this
track record really of being around at
the early stages of a number of the
industry firsts as it were. So I was
very involved with passive management in
the early stages. I
started up the target date funds and the
life cycle designs in the 1980s. But you
know one of my proudest things is that I
was very involved with total portfolio
approach in the mid 2000s. there were
several funds um thinking about it,
pursuing it and in the end uh putting
into their their arrangements and since
that time I've been a contributor to the
forerunners of of the RPC and what we
now have looking forward is the
opportunity I think for the CFA
institute to produce some very original
research around future of finance and
thought leadership themes. and TPA is is
is one of the big themes that's out
there at the moment.
>> Absolutely. Couldn't agree with you
more. I mean, we it feels like we are on
the precipice of a major structural
transformation for the the global
economy in general, I would say, but
very specifically also for the finance
industry. And whether it's disruption
through artificial intelligence, the
sustainability transition or uh the
growth in private markets, it really
feels like there are so many things
happening. It's a confluence of so much
right now. And I do know that TPA is one
of the tools that can help uh investors
kind of make sense of all of these
seismic changes. But before we get into
TPA, maybe we could start with the
basics and where we've come from. So why
don't you walk me through the basics of
SAA, strategic asset allocation, what
purpose it served and maybe where it's
worked well and perhaps where it's
worked less well and then we can discuss
how TPA fits into all of that.
>> Yeah, brilliant. And I always think that
actually going back and um remembering
history is crucial. You can't really get
today's context without thinking about
where we've come from. So, so the big
factors here were that um performance
measurement came out of the early 1970s.
We didn't measure performance uh
regularly or consistently before that
time. That created a sort of league
table orientation to funds in the 1970s
1980s when I was kind of starting out my
craft. And as a result, funds uh were
were were very much caught in a very
circular race um to just do the best
they could without regard to their
circumstances.
And it was very obvious that uh pension
funds with certain types of liabilities
should not be compared with different
types of insurance funds or endowments
or other types of organization at that
time. there needed to be some um
customization to do with circumstances.
And that came along uh in the tail end
of the 1980s into the 1990s with um
particularly the advent of asset
liability modeling which created the
um the route to how SAA came about
because an asset liability model
basically was able to suggest a policy
that was matched to the specific
liabilities of a fund. And before that
it was too uh inaccurate I would say a
process and it wasn't uh really fit for
purpose. So now I did a a stack of work
in the 1990s with these funds. So these
funds generally had not um customized
themselves hadn't got saas they put
saasa in place throughout the 1990s. It
was a decade of a lot of change in the
investment industry and it was to me,
you know, doing Trojan work to make
things just more effective and efficient
and um fit for purpose. And I didn't
think other than it was [snorts] it was
actually exactly the right work for the
time and the right process for the time.
Uh, fast forward a little bit and I was
getting um a little bit twitched about
it because the flexibility um that was
involved with SAA was limited and
markets were starting to move rather
more fast and it was at that stage when
CPP and future fund in particular said
actually we'd prefer more flexibility.
We can arrange um our board to do a
somewhat different job. we can do it in
a different way where we don't have to
be quite as um quite as anchored to a
benchmark.
>> So benchmarks SAAS are one of the same
with having a strong benchmark. TPA is
much more about multiple comparators and
absolute return orientation. So at that
stage the absolute return argument
started to emerge and the flexibility
that came from a TPA started to emerge
and those funds started up and they have
not looked back. There's never been a
thought um about those funds including
now New Zealand super which was the
third to group join the group. GIC then
joined that was the fourth. So those
those are the four names that you get
when you go back to the TPA origins.
Yes, I was around. I was talking to all
of those funds at the time, but
essentially the TPA started to tick away
in the background. No one really paid a
huge amount of attention because they
were happy enough with an SAA. So
essentially, fast forward to today, we
just have a different set of conditions
and there's more reason why some of the
SAA restrictions and frictions kind of
use that word quite a lot. And um I did
want to reference uh the work of Grenald
and Khn in 1989 who created the
fundamental law of active management.
Basically
the um the efficiency and um information
ratio you can get from investment
propositions does include uh an
allowance for how much there are
constraints,
frictions that hold performance back. An
SAA has several frictions. So that we
could talk a bit more about.
>> Yeah, certainly. I mean uh by way of
some of my background, I spent many
years at S&P building index um
strategies and uh one of the things that
came up often was obviously the purpose
of a benchmark. The purpose of an index
was to as it says in the name benchmark
the performance and to represent and
reflect the world as it is so that we
had a way and a mechanism to communicate
the um the value ad of a given strategy
relative to something universal and
foundational that can be used for end
beneficiaries to truly understand how
they've performed in the market. Now, do
you feel that TPA
loses some of that in that SAA's more
rigid rigid rigidity
creates a level playing field that is
particularly in the pension fund space
where you know these are very conceptual
and nuanced technically proficient term
terms that perhaps as you communicate
the strategy to the ultimate
beneficiaries can get lost in the mix.
And if you have this more flexible
approach with TPA, do we lose some of
that underlying universality to help
communicate the value ad?
>> Yeah, that's very interestingly framed
and it's correctly framed in my view
that the SAA actually does have a degree
of of comfiness in it. comfiness through
a board's lens but also comfiness
through the end investors uh view as in
actually you know we go back to the 6040
thing you know obviously we don't have
6040s anymore we have much more
sophisticated SAAS but but by and large
you kind of know a bit where you stand
just through those very figures you see
so the benchmark actually leads you to
understand what to expect and that's
actually an asset for some parts of the
ecosystem but it is a little bit of a
I'm going to say liability to flexible
investing uh which is therefore
ultimately you know what people are
looking for when times get tough,
markets change, complexity kicks in.
>> Yeah. So, how is it that TPA equips
investors to address and deal with
complexity in a way that SAA can't?
Well, it's actually a bit contested
which is the more complex of the
strategies. So, essentially really
investment maturity, investment funds
have matured. They they get smarter over
time, but they also kind of get a bit
more muscle bound to some extent. It's
actually quite an interesting journey
but essentially when you look at it
through that lens the flexibility um
that comes with um the TPA does afford
new opportunities and so the heart of
TPA it is alignment to goals it's best
ideas
and its dynamism which isn't meant to be
tactical asset allocation it's more like
a dynamic
um opportunity
which is um open to a TPA on a
continuing basis, not a a not a
timetabled
>> calendarbased uh opportunity. So it's
it's it's basically that what you get
from a TPA is the opportunity to refresh
your portfolio a lot more than you would
in a in in an SAA. So those are assets
that seem to point to more investment
skill getting through and that's where
I'll reference again the fundamental law
of active management because essentially
aligned to goals is that point about
friction. TPA doesn't really have a
friction. It's set up to be the most
efficient portfolio you can come up
with. SAA will always have um a degree
to which the returns are downgraded
because you build tracking errors in and
benchmarks in you know so there's bound
to be a bit of a a downgrade of your
skill you know so you can have the skill
but you can't make the skill work as
hard in an SAA and then best ideas is
clearly
opening up the opportunity to as much
skill as as you have you know that's an
issue because TPA is not going to make a
poor investor better that doesn't make
any sense and then the last one is is
this thing about dynamism which is
actually about breadth you see so
dynamism gives a TPA portfolio more
breadth than an SA will ever have and
breadth is a prince of equality in that
equation
because um it's statistically
um a fact, this is really an axiom that
uh you want to uh put as much breadth
and diversity into your investment
policy as you can because
diversification is that only free lunch
that we ever get in the investment
industry.
>> Very fascinatingly put. I mean as you
were speaking it reminds me I mean I
wonder do you think this is a a fair
characterization to say that in its
simplest terms SAA is on one end of the
spectrum providing accessibility
but TPA provides
flexibility in that in that SAA is
easier to understand easier to
communicate more consistent more
universal so it absolutely plays a role
for how the investment industry works in
terms of it's a level playing field.
It's a way in which we can communicate
consistently and universally to a system
that has that is ridden with information
asymmetries but it simplifies by design
to help us make sense of that. Whereas
TPA is inherently more agile, more
dynamic, more responsive to the
conditions in the market in the real
economy that are inherently complex. But
therefore in that we it loses the uh
accessibility afforded by SAA because of
its rigidity. And so in some ways you're
it's a it's it's a fundamental
trade-off. Do you have accuracy or do
you have understanding or accessibility
in some way? and and then
>> it's up to the end investor or up to the
strategy to decide which of those is
more appropriate in a given case.
>> Yeah. Uh by the way ma I I love the way
you put that and it was very very
accurately put it was actually of course
this trade-off between the simpler
version which is actually what we call
what I call u basically comfy governance
right against uh efficient investment. I
don't think there's any doubt that that
you called out that u TPA is set up to
be investment efficient but maybe it's
rather stretchy governance as a result
you see
>> and therefore that is a choice and
really
>> what we have in the um asset owner space
across pension funds through to
sovereign wealth funds etc is quite a
complex governance setup which is other
people's money being covered by uh
different uh bodies that uh coalesce and
have to work together and not all of
them see the construct the same way. You
know, that's kind of interesting. So, so
on a practical basis, you got to have
you got to have comfy governance to some
extent. If you got uncomfortable
governance, you're not going to get
anywhere. And so what one of the big
challenges of TPA is making sure that
the mindsets converge on something and
that there is a level setting of
expectations and there is more teamwork
um really across the organization.
That's that's implied in a TPA relative
to an SAA. SAA you have your buckets,
you have your different parts of the
portfolio. they they operate a little
bit more independently in silos whereas
the TPA is really trying to unlock
marriage value across the whole
portfolio. Yeah, it it very much is a
systems thinking approach to identify
the the space in between these various
different concepts which which is why I
wonder maybe that's why it's so hard for
some folks to get their head around
because it's just inherently complex and
you're basically saying there's no
shortcuts to the complexity. You've got
to wade through the muck as it were and
avoid, you know, get out of your comfort
zone from your comfy governance. And if
you're really going to navigate
disruption in a period of, you know, um,
systemic risk and opportunity, this is
the tool to do it. and maybe in the past
the relative stability of the global
financial system and I say relative
obviously there's been periods of major
instability but by and large to your
point around the underlying prevailing
philosophical orthodoxy around modern
portfolio theory and uh you know all the
other things that you mentioned where
those legacy models haven't necessarily
been challenged but as we enter this new
era of disruption and technological
innovation at a pace that we've never
quite grasped before. Maybe that
simplicity
won't get us far enough and actually
this is somewhat existential in order to
make sense of this complexity. Is that a
fair characterization?
>> Um again it's very accurate. Um but it's
it's a lot of things right you layered
them on top there. So if I try to unpack
that there's a couple that are really
really important. It is basically that
this complexity
is weighing heavy on an industry that
built its past practices and basically
foundations up around physics envy.
Right? So for that reason I think a
model that's more sensitive to the
system the ecosystem
is really important and indeed that's
realistically reflecting the idea that
the fundamentals in market affect and
are affected by our behaviors as
investors.
Um, that is the concept of reflexivity,
which I I'm kind of going to go out and
say I think there's about one person in
a million who understands what I'm
talking about when I talk about
reflexivity.
It's a really important concept. Soros
did great work in narrating it. I
recommend his work on it, but it's a
really important concept which marks the
difference between
ecosystem thinking and the classic
versions of modern portfolio theory that
uh we know and love. And I'm not
throwing them out. This is not the same
as how the capernac turn worked out. So
we got it all wrong. We thought that the
earth was the center of the universe and
capernacus
showed it wasn't and every calculation
had to be changed. You know, you had to
come completely reset your view. We can
build off modern portfolio theory
because it is just a simpler version of
what is taking place within the
ecosystem. And I think that's the
ambition for the investment industry is
to get wiser and sharper around that.
And you used the phrase earlier on that
that risk models have to go wider,
softer, longer than they have before.
>> Yeah. It it it reminds me of um of this
idea of you know how the poles shift the
magnetic poles, the north and south pole
of the planet Earth shift every few
millennia. So if you have a compass and
it's pointing north, true north,
>> um that's going to continue to work for
a long time and it's going to guide and
and direct uh any navigation, but every
so often there is some upending of the
system around us that requires you to
recalibrate. The the the compass will
still point north, but will it get you
to the intended place where you want to
go? And so I wonder if what we're facing
at the moment is this upending of the
system where MPT and SAA, they were fit
for purpose in an era of relative
stability when the polls were aligned
with the tools at hand. But every every
so often something comes along and that
requires us to rethink things. And it
might be why I suspect on the margin TPA
versus SAA doesn't produce very
different results. And so you may have
some skeptics that say, well, what's the
difference here? um the old system works
perfectly fine and that's maybe because
it's been in an untested period of
stress and it's kind of like how does it
perform under the stress test which may
not be happening all the time but there
is every so often this once in a
millennia event that does create that
upending of the system and the stress on
the model in which TPA may or may not be
superior but I suppose that's that's the
vision that you're championing is that
correct
It is correct really that I'm I'm very I
I work incrementally with with the the
funds that I advise. So it's not like um
there's any scrambling to do things
completely differently. Um this is a
multi-quarter type process that funds
are looking at to move forward. Be be
progressive
just become more sophisticated.
I think sophisticated is better than
complicated. Um I think sophisticated
often has complexity attached to it. But
sophisticated is um something where you
can get an edge and you don't want to I
think be caught too much with
yesterday's practices. And so in this
area we've we've created a bit of a
difficulty because SAA had all the sort
of apparatus around it. It's what I call
a meta construct. You can't see SAA as
just an investment thing. It is an
investment thing. It's a governance
thing. It's a risk thing. It's a
sustainability thing. It's a people
thing. You know, all of those things.
And so is TPA. So from that point of
view, we're not changing one thing.
Change one thing, you change everything.
you know, you've got to actually see
this as quite a big deal to move to
something new. And it's in that area
where I think it's been a relatively
slowm moving um diffusion of this
innovation that has been out there for a
while.
>> Let's talk about the people for a
moment. You've been working with a lot
of firms trying to help them evolve
their processes. What does it mean for
the people and for the skills and the
mindset and and what challenges are you
encountering uh if any in the adoption
and widespread implementation of TPA? Is
is the are the incentives set up in the
right way for the investment profession?
Is that all it is or is it a cultural
issue? Um what what would you say has
been the biggest barrier to the mind
shift inong among the people that would
be leading this change?
>> Well firstly I think you've got to say
that if you don't shift minds on it then
you you're really going to have a an
unsuccessful change process. So you
actually do have to very much put uh
people first in this in this change. And
so from that point of view, the mindset
that we've had has been built around a
the idea that um individual
departments or asset classes are where
people do their work. There hasn't been
a look across the portfolio as much as
as there might have been in that
context. People are happy enough in
their silos. And then the incentives
have also aligned with performance
within asset classes against benchmarks.
So people respond to incentives. The
rest is commentary. You know, that's
oneline um definition of e economics
when you get down to it. It's pretty
clear that that that needs to be changed
if you're going to be successful with
TPA. So So you're you're creating um a
change of mindset. It's called usually
it's called first team mindset. Um
Patrick Lancion wrote the book about
five dysfunctions of a team. He used
that principle which is when people
spring out of their department or
whatever they will um need when they
come to f the first team which is the
overall total portfolio team they will
need to leave their baggage behind. They
will need to be oriented around one goal
which is to get the best performance out
of the total fund and therefore they
will need to reflect on whether or not
their asset class is the place where new
capital should be applied you know so
that becomes you know point number one
you're actually working on a different
objective and of course if you haven't
changed the incentives you're in trouble
so incentives are crucially oriented
around really that any of the the
variable comp has to be kind of put in a
currency where it's total fund outcome
that that actually is what pays people.
So a vertical is a deep domain expert.
We have a gazillion deep domain experts
in the investment industry. You know,
they do their job brilliantly, but
they've got to respect the idea that
their work doesn't spring up in
isolation. It has to be put in the
context of the whole portfolio. And that
makes them need to be a little bit more
T-shaped, capital T. They've got to be
vertical, deep domain, but they've also
got to be horizontal here with respect
to understanding what's happening
elsewhere and understanding where their
portfolio fits visav these other parts
of the organization and indeed visav
other parts of the organizational
functions including this very important
growing bit which is to do with
technology. So individuals have to be
more T-shaped, capital T. It's really
important concept. Previously, they were
all right being eyesshaped, deep domain.
Now they've got to be more T-shaped.
And it's really then coming through a
little bit more with organizational
changes as well, where the organization
is looking to people to be a little bit
less
caught by the hierarchy and a bit more
able to contribute to the networks. you
know the network you know which starts
with investment committee contribution
but can be other places as well and in
particular you've got in a sense a new
vertical entering the equation which is
how technology has to be seen alongside
investment specialization and expertise
>> yeah I mean you you took the words right
out of my mouth the next thing I was
going to say as you were speaking was
this just seems so timely with the
disruption that AI is bringing to the
workforce. We at CFA Institute, you
know, are grappling with similar
questions around, you know, we're a
credentiing body that's designed to
equip the investment industry with the
highest levels of integrity, trust, and
ethics,
but the very foundations upon which the
financial industry is based on are are
being challenged. And so questioning
what skills are needed to equip the
profession of the future in a world
dominated by artificial intelligence and
the intersection of it with human
intelligence which I know is a phrase
that you've championed. I'd love to dig
into that. But as you were speaking it
sounds as if you know we we have or we
will have more of a reliance reliance on
machines to help us do potentially some
of that analytical deep analytical work.
But then the connections and the
patterns and the implications
are what perhaps the human brings into
the equation, the human in the loop.
It's that broadspanning expertise that a
machine led by prompts can only do so
much of. But it's again those spaces in
between the prompts and the spaces in
between the pre-training and and and
that kind of quintessentially human
cognitive capacity to to to to envision
something that doesn't isn't written
down on paper and to imagine a scenario
that I think machines at least from what
we've seen so far are less capable of
doing. And so do you think that TBA
coupled with AI transformation and
questions around the role of the
analysts, the role of the investment
profession in the future in some way
kind of um uh solves that that that I
don't want to call it a crisis but that
anxiety that that so many of us have
around what role will we as humans play
in a world dominated by AI. [snorts]
>> Yeah. for the foreseeable future. I'm a
big optimist that this this is good
news, but I can't I can't see that far
into the future. And on that basis, um
we have to be a little bit more
concerned about the longerterm future.
Um because these machines are super
smart. I mean, I think everyone's been
shocked as to how much they've
contributed already to our own
operational efficiency before we've kind
of changed the parameters of how we do
our work. You see? So, so yes, I have
championed a phrase which is very very
simple. It is that HI human intelligence
times artificial intelligence AI is a
very powerful proposition and clearly
comes out well ahead of HI on its own,
AI on its own or anything that is the
summation of those two. It's the com
combination that matters and that
implies that the role of the investment
professional will migrate over time a
bit away from the discretionary decision
making that they've been extremely good
at but not consistent enough at an
aggregate of a population. they're going
to have to actually migrate more towards
um really uh designing governance um in
a different sort of way and making sure
that they can mark out the investment
process in its different phases. So
really unpack everything that goes into
an investment process at the moment but
allow some of the functions that go into
that investment process to be handled by
machines that can do it better than the
human. You see? So it's obviously that's
where the product term comes in. So
essentially when you look at it through
that the the big uh I think dimension of
change is that we now have an
intelligence um ecosystem change which
is pretty substantial. That is to say
previously data has been out there and
it's been handled really in a in a a
sort of rough and ready higgledy
piggledy way. But we actually have to
become much more systematic about really
harnessing
um more data than we had before. A lot
of it is unstructured. We have to pass
that data pl R SA E P A R S E. Um we
have to um push that data towards some
sort of decision useful shape which can
be um
addressed and used in a very decision
useful way by the collective
intelligence of our organizations. Now
collective intelligence here obviously
has a certain amount of it that is based
on the intelligence that's coming from
machines but the but the the the vast
majority of that is then individuals
making judgments on the back of improved
intelligence on risk factors on return
tradeoffs on everything that's moving
and doing so in a much more responsive
way to the fast changing conditions that
we encounter.
So from that point of view, every day
stroke every week stroke every quarter,
there are better portfolios
that can be created under that type of
paradigm if you've got the combination
of consolidated real-time data. You've
got decision useful analytics
really built in there and there are a
number of sort of outside providers that
can put that on a plate in front of
organizations by the way if they've got
the consolidated real-time data which is
you know the weakest link at the moment.
And then lastly, you've actually got an
an element where you've actually got to
make sure that the engagement around
some of these factors is properly built
in because often you've got an asset
owner asset manager interface that makes
the thing a little bit more complicated.
>> More complicated, but actually more open
to unlocking value as well.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean the the the
level of complexity and the inter
relationships between all the players is
another dynamic yet still that has to be
managed as well. We started this
conversation by talking about how the
legacy models have served well in a
period of relative stability. We're now
clearly entering unprecedented
disruption. But one would hope that at
the end of the the light at the end of
the tunnel is that at some point there
will be a new status quo. No, who's to
say whether that's 10, 20, 50, 100, 150
years into the future? I don't know when
that will be when our super intelligence
overlords potentially take over. But at
that point,
will TPA's relevance cease to exist if
the universality of the system has
reached a point of singularity and
therefore the role of the T-shaped
thinking becomes redundant?
Um it's actually you know beyond my pay
grade to answer that actually Mona but
the I think the key aspect of it is
really um managing to a horizon that is
long but I think it's very difficult to
manage to to anything longer than I'm
going to say 10 20 30. Um, I've got a
client that I work a lot with, New
Zealand Super. They've they they've been
working on their reference portfolio as
though it's the risk exposure for the
next 30 years. You know, I like that. I
think it's well done. I don't think you
could you could anticipate anything like
the uncertainties that going to going to
manifest in the next 30 years. But on
the other hand, it's the right
discipline. But from the point of view
of TPA, I think the methodology of TPA
actually has got more uh resilience than
the SAA had. The SAA was put together
kind of a I think a little bit more with
with a bit of sticking plaster at the
time which is really trying to manage to
the circumstances of the industry.
Strong boards not so much in the
internal teams. Now asset owners have a
lot more internal capability. they can
work with more degrees of flexibility
and with fewer constraints. You see, so
TPA is set up to be relatively
resilient, stroke, robust. I use those
words slightly differently. I see
robustness more in the portfolio sense.
I see resilience more in the
organizational sense. Both of them have
to be covered here. So, so when you
actually look at it through that lens,
you're asking almost for this impossible
perspective around um where the speeding
up and speeding up which is a fact is
going to lead to and um I have my
concerns about that. I can't really sort
of I think we should do you know so from
that point of view we are
introducing into our ecosystem, you
know, at the planetary level, a lot more
systemic risk than we had before. That
systemic risk doesn't really have a
past, but for sure, for sure, it has a
big future. And so some of those risks
are
apparent,
not necessarily fully discounted.
Climate risk, I would say, is apparent,
but not discounted. But I think that
elements of the artificial intelligence
proposition which carries so much
promise for
society in the broad but also the
investment industry in in our own
narrower base. You know I I actually
feel that the risks are difficult to pin
down what are the externalities of of um
AI. It's clear it's got an externality
around energy use, but I think it's it
may be a little bit more
um insidious and latent what type of
things are out there with respect to
those things. I think we were on a a
more confident wicket saying TPA has a
bright future. I'll I'll stick to that.
[laughter]
>> Oh, I think you know um these are
questions that I'm I'm I'm just playing
around. I know that I doubt that we'll
ever reach this singularity or at least
if we do it'll be well well past our
times. Um I hope anyway so we won't have
to worry about that. But but I do
>> the idea about the singularity by the
way Mona is that uh those that kind of
understand the gig there are a bit
worried that it's it's certainly within
our time put it that way. Well, that's
true. Well, well, it remains to be seen,
but I I mean, it poses a broader
question around you talked earlier about
value creation and the fundamental rules
of active management, and I you know, we
we've um you also talked about real time
information.
In other conversations, you and I have
talked about this notion of well, what
what does the so the role of the
investor obviously is to try to maximize
riskadjusted returns and to create uh
value, but some of that is speculative
in that it comes from market moves. And
then there are other fundamental
underlying economic reasons that push
out the production possibility frontier
that are genuine innovations and growth
of the pie rather than just reallocating
the slices. In a world where we have
potentially real- time dissemination of
information and no information
asymmetries, how how do you think the
investor can continue to create value?
Is it is it a better scenario because
we're more focused on genuine value
creation? Um or are we maybe creating a
system where because of universal
knowledge, there can be no winners and
losers. And so the notion of investing
itself as a as a as a zero- sum game
potentially becomes challenging. And and
and is there a role for TPA in all of
that to help
identify those new synergies and new
opportunities where perhaps SAA would be
more focused on a broader picture
including the speculative gains?
Yeah, it's a spot-on question again and
really um it's a question that I think
is very very um central and a bit
misunderstood by um different types of
analysts uh who look in on it that I
think therefore the worry about
investment being a zero- sum game I
think is a little bit overplayed. it it
obviously is in certain areas but in
other areas there are tremendous
positive sum um investment decisions to
be taken. So from that point of view
I'll just give you a simple example
obviously diversification itself if you
actually start with a a basic reference
portfolio which is now what TPA suggests
you should do so listed equities and
bonds starts the process off you know
call it 7030 whatever uh the opportunity
to build uh a better portfolio return
per unit risk by um introducing other
risk drivers return drivers into the
portfolio is actually fairly
considerable. that is a skill thing that
is a positive sum. So all investors can
benefit from a certain amount of of uh
diversification in that type of context.
Not every investor can can benefit from
shuffling the um the property rights
around listed markets. That's that's
obviously correct. So from that point of
view, you've actually got to make sure
that you play your cards more
substantially in the area where positive
sums can exist. And one new area of of
opportunity and ambition should be
stewardship you see. So so at the moment
we allocate less than 5% of our
resources to stewardship more than 95%
to capital allocation decisions and I
think there's a there's scope for more
resources to be allocated to stewardship
including systemic stewardship. So that
becomes more the gig here that we
actually recognize that we're not
managing a completely stable closed
system. We're managing something that is
part of a bigger system, right? And that
bigger system can support our future
returns or it can be a big drag on those
returns. Think of climate change, those
externalities. So net zero investing was
was conceived and is in my view
delivering something where it it
actually contributes to the reduction of
the externalities on the investment
industry because it starts to chip away
at the sort of return losses we would
have if climate change uh ran a muck as
it were.
>> That's right. So the investment industry
is is set up to address that. Not
everyone sees it the way I see that, but
I think it's very clear-cut that there's
opportunity in what people are now
referring to as system level investing.
>> It reminds me of, you know, you have
these universal asset owners who um
which is very pertinent in the context
of indexing. I mean, you can't beat the
market when you are the market. So your
only opportunity is to reshape the
behaviors of the market itself subject
to the external conditions be they
externalities and whatnot. Um we are
going to have additional conversations
Roger as you know and in and in future
versions I'd love to get more into the
specifics of how an investor can
practically take the steps to start to
implement some of this. But before we go
there, can you just um explain to me
whether there might be circumstances in
which both SAA and TPA could work
alongside each other? Are they are they
fundamentally mutually exclusive? Um how
would it work from a uh you know from a
resource allocation, construction and
time spent, you know, the actual
specifics of the governance? Are these
things potentially consistent with one
another in different parts of the
portfolio or are they inherently a
substitute one for the other?
>> Yeah. So, so this is an important um
idea to to plant and to make sure people
recognize that really it's not binary
between SAA and TPA. There's different
versions of it and a number of the
versions actually include um a future
for the SAA within a TPA. you I don't it
might sound uh a tad confusing but it
isn't trust me you know so so um one of
the levels of TPA that we talk about in
our work that we is of course WTW think
ahead with clients is top down TPA where
an SAA is still around you know so so
you you don't actually get rid of it but
actually you want to to deemphasize its
benchmark quality you want to actually
use it as an influence inuencing factor
to the investment thinking. So, so it's
a little bit of a change of governance
>> and it's a change of emphasis. So, I
think that's becomes important. So I
don't see SAA and TPA as completely at
odds with each other. But I do see the
need therefore to be very sensitive to
individual circumstances to boards
views, beliefs and preferences to work
through these issues. The boards
actually have a tough job here. They
have to reconcile a lot of conflicting
stuff.
Nothing in investment um comes across
without a contest. You've got a contest
for the ideas as it were. So I see that
going on into the future. I see really
um a lot more spectrum stuff where
people are a bit a bit one a bit the
other and they're fine with that. I I I
cannot see anything other than overall
more movement towards TPA principles. I
think it's I think it's baked in. Now,
the reason I say that is really because
2025 was a year where we we jumped the
chasm. People were previously saying, "I
don't know what I'd do to get to TPA. I
might like the argument, but it's too
difficult." But actually, in 2025, it's
been a case of watching a few exemplers
do great work to jump the chasm and be
out there in a better place. And I'll
call out PGGM and Kalpers as two uh
organizations that are examples to us
all
>> and historically ones that have led the
charge on many initiatives around which
the rest of the industry tends to follow
suit. So, so I'm sure there's something
there. You had mentioned to me in
previous conversations that, you know,
over the years, you've been working on
this for decades. It was a drip and now
a bit of a drip drip and now it's a
full-blown fire hose. Um well thank you
Roger for spending the time on
explaining the big picture concepts of
why this is and I think as I mentioned
in our next conversation we'll we'll
dive even we'll dive even further in and
we'll try to equip the industry with
what they need from a practical lens to
actually go about um taking their first
steps towards TPA and to your point
making sure that it's positioned
alongside the other tools to try to
contextualize the big upended disruption
that we're facing but in a way that
makes sense and is accessible. And I
know you've done so much research both
with CFA Institute and with others of
course Willis Towers Watson Thinking
Ahead Institute. And there's uh some
research that will be coming out soon to
help contextualize this even more. But
are there any kind of um parting
thoughts you'd like to share for our
listeners beyond what we'll get into
next time when we actually speak about
the specifics of implementing this
stuff?
>> Well, I'm thrilled that there's much
more coverage of this subject. I think
much more awareness has come through
this year as well. So all I do is to
encourage this principle of level
setting. Um you have to do that with
every fund. Uh individuals have to come
together with a certain um I call it
scaffolding really. They've got to
actually understand enough of uh the
principles here and by starting out with
the level setting of that knowledge you
get a long way. That's why it's so
important for CFA Institute to be on the
case as it is and trying to help with
the education of a difficult subject.
It's not this is not uh this is not at
all straightforward but um it's truly
rewarding and you know I love my work in
part because we seem to be making
progress on this.
>> Absolutely. Well, I'm here with you
along that journey. We're going to get
out of that comfort zone and wade
through the muck and we'll figure it all
out together. But for those of you at
home listening, uh we hope you've
enjoyed this conversation. Like I said,
this is the first of a minieries in
which Roger and I will wade into that
muck together and join us on that on
that journey and hopefully um engage
with us on this topic. It is something
that is inherently complex. We invite
you to to join us to uh participate in
our society conversations across our
member network or reach out directly to
myself or Roger or anyone at CFA
Institute and we would be happy to have
a conversation with you. But thank you
for your time. Thank you for listening
and we'll see you next time.
[music]
