There's a secret about Apple style
animation that no one talks about and
that's storyboarding. So in this video I
will show you exactly how I created a
intro of an editing challenge in the
Apple Cell and so I won't only show you
the animation process but also the
storyboarding process. Now let's jump
into it. So I'm here in Milanote and I
always use this for my storyboarding.
And by the way Milanote is also the
sponsor of this video which I'm super
excited about because I love their
software. If you don't know what
Milanote is, it is a tool for organizing
creative projects. You can add links,
images, notes, to-do list, and a lot
more in one place. They have some really
unique features which I will also show,
but check them out. Link is in
description. Anyway, I have the script
here on the left, and it really depends
on the size of the project. If it's a
simple project, then I don't have to do
a lot of animation. I just use the
script and then maybe write down some
notes or some ideas that I have and then
I don't even use the whole storyboarding
feature. If it's a bit of a bigger
project, which this was, then I do use
the storyboarding. And it's really like
a nice way to give a clear view of what
you want to work with. And what I really
like about Milano that it has some
features that are really good for
editors and animators. For example, the
hex codes, uh, which is really nice to
work with, and also the columns where
you can just cluster some things, a
to-do list, which is also really nice,
and even a font card where you can
select some fonts that you want to use.
And not only that, you can also have
boards and boards. So in this board, for
example, I have some general inspiration
that I just pasted in. And these are
just some things that I like. Now, this
is of course all cool, but I also want
to show you how to create this. So,
let's go through it. So, for the sake of
the video, I'm just going to create a
new board. So, let's drag that here. And
I'm just going to call this Apple style
storyboard. And then we can double click
on that and we'll open it. You can
choose a template. I'm just going to use
an empty board for now. And then when
you paste your script, you will see this
unsorted column. And I think this is a
really unique feature. I will show you
in a bit why I love this feature. For
now, I'm just going to drag this script
to my board. Uh, so I have it here. I
can look at it. I can come up with ideas
based on it. Now what I first always do
is I find some general inspiration and I
do this by going to Pinterest for
example, but you can also go to dribble
behind. You can also find stuff on
Twitter or Instagram. And here I just
select some things that I think like
okay these could be cool for the project
but it's just like some general
inspiration. But sometimes I already see
some elements. For example, this I love
these buttons. I think they're really
cool. And then I might use it for
specific elements. Anyway, what I do is
I just take a screenshot uh using my
Mac. But if you're on Windows, you can
also just copy the image. Then we go to
the storyboard. And if we now paste it,
it will be in the unsorted also. And
what's nice about this is I don't have
to think where to place it, where to put
it. I can just paste it all in the
unsorted. So I can just continue going
through my inspiration. Maybe I see
something more, I can copy this, I can
paste it, and again will be my unsorted.
So this is really quick. And why I like
this is because of workflow. Because I
don't like to already be busy with how
this board is going to look like. No, I
just want to focus on the inspiration.
This also looks super dope, bright. Oh,
love it. Um, copy this, paste it, and we
already have some inspiration. And now
we can just drag it in wherever you
want. Uh, we can just put it over each
other. And again, we can use this as
general inspiration, or we can even use
some elements in here. I also really
like these colors. So, maybe I want to
work with these colors. Now, I'm looking
for some other stuff. And once you have
a bit of like a general style, you also
want to go through the keywords. And if
I look at my script, there's a few
things in here. So, like eight editors.
I want to do something with this maybe
with the $1,000 price. And also here,
here's a twist and results are wildly
different. I think the keyword weld is
really cool. We can do something with
that. And to give you an example, I just
search for wild or wild design. And I
already see this really cool stuff here.
And then when you open it in Pinterest,
you can see also other other
inspiration. I think this also looks
really cool, right? And maybe we can
create something like this. So, we can
copy this over and paste it again and it
will be in unsorted. In this case, I
want to drag it already because I'm
going to use this for our storyboard.
And also with the $1,000 price, maybe
going to search for like a credit card
design, something with money. I really
like how these cards look. So, let's
copy this, too. Paste it. There we go.
And already put it a bit in the order.
Maybe I search for breakdown. Maybe for
the breakdown, we can use some This
looks really cool. Maybe we can do
something like this. And again, these
styles are all over the place. But what
we can do is basically use this for
these styles and then use this for the
elements. So we already got a few
things. Now what we can even do is
select them. Uh I can align them to the
vertical centers so they're nicely
aligned. And I can connect them and they
will just have a line between it. Then I
can also add some notes to it. So for
example here, what I want to do is have
like the cards sliding up. can also use
the drawing feature where we can draw on
something. For example, I want like a
spotlight around this and we can move
this of course or delete it again. Let
me add a quick note to this spotlight.
We can also hold alt and then drag this
out and then uh just type in breakdown
blueprint effect. So these nodes are
nicely floating around. We can just put
them wherever we want. Now I want to
organize this a bit better. So we can
also select these, right click and then
do group into column and they'll be
nicely into a column. And we can call
this inspo. You don't have to put it in
like a card like this. We can also put
this in a separate board if we want to.
And you can do that by right clicking
and convert to board. And then it will
just be like a nice board already with
the name. As you can see, it works
really simple. Now let's also add some
of our colors. And we can even click on
the color and color pick it from our
inspiration, which is really nice. And
why this is important is because I see a
lot of editors that have their colors
and fonts all over the place. They use
like 200 different fonts and colors in
their edit. And in my opinion, that
makes it a bit messy, right? So, we can
literally just have a few colors that
we're going to work with. Maybe this
darker blue. And then maybe also with a
off-whiteish,
something like this. And now later on,
we can just copy these hex codes, which
is really nice. Now you know how to make
these storyboards. Let's go back to the
storyboard I made before. By the way, if
you wanted to try Miller node yourself,
it is available for free with no time
limit. You can sign up using the link in
the description down below. So now I'm
here in After Effects and I have my
voice over already ready in After
Effects. Now what I like to do is to
keep my Mila node on the left and to see
a bit like what I wanted to have in the
animation and also this is not set in
stone. Sometimes I get other IDs and
then I still change it up. Let's start
with this uh with the cards popping up.
Imagine this. So let's start with this
text. Imagine this. Uh, let me just type
it. Imagine this. Let me change this
font to SF Pro medium. Let's make this a
bit bigger. And then, of course, center
this. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to right click, layer styles,
gradient overlay. Add a bit of texture
to this. Uh, let's reverse this. And
also change the opacity to maybe like
27%. I also want to animate this. So,
let's go to animate position and then
animate opacity. Opacity to zero and
position to something like 150. Go to
the range selector. Go to the advanced
tab and let's change this to ramp up the
ease low to 100% and then we can nicely
animate it using the offset. So, let's
set the key frame on the offset minus
100. We go like one second further and
we'll set it to 100%. So, we already
have a cool animation. Let's set this to
quarter. We can watch this. And I'm also
going to turn off the audio because I
don't want to hear myself 200 times. We
already have this cool animation in my
opinion. I like it. I also want the this
in a different color. So, let's just
select that. Let's go to our properties
and change the fill to a orangey color.
Uh because it's my brand color now. And
going back to our Milode, we also have
the hex code here. So, we can copy that
over, making sure that we always use the
same orange. And as you can see, this
already looks really clean. Now, I want
the Apple Mimojis popping up. Of course,
we can just search like a Apple Mimoji
pack. They exist. They're also in Figma
that you can use or export. But the cool
thing is using Chpt, you can also
generate them. I ch want you to generate
eight Apple Mimojis, all from different
races and different genders. Make sure
they're on a transparent background. And
there you go. You have some Apple
Mimojis. They're not official Apple
Mimojis. They're copyrighted, but we can
definitely use this. So, just save this.
Can call our folder assets. Let's put it
in there. Now, we can just import this.
And basically, what you can do is in
Photoshop cut them all out and have
separate PGs. But you can also just in
After Effects mask one of them and then
duplicate it by hitting command D or
control D on Windows. Double clicking on
the mask and moving that. Then doing the
same thing, duplicating it, double
clicking on the mask and moving it. And
you just have to do this eight more
times. And the cool thing is is that I
might want to use these later anyway.
We're not just doing it for one
animation. Now we have eight apple
emojis and we can turn those into cards.
Now I'm going to create a quick cart.
And I do that by using the rounded
rectangle tool. Let's just drag here.
Make sure nothing is selected. Maybe
something like this. I'm going to turn
the fill into a linear gradient. And the
stroke is fine. Now I'm going to go to
the selection tool and I'm going to
change this gradient to be more soft.
Something like this. And the other one
I'm going to maybe drag something like
this. And I'm going to change the fill
colors. Uh so let's make that maybe like
dark orange. And then the other one
brighter. Maybe something like this. I
do want it to be a bit more rounded. So
let's increase the roundness to 50. And
there you go. We have a clean and nice
looking card. Now we can add these
basically on top of the card. So let's
move this. There we go. And then I can
link this to the card. Now in the end
animation, I want to have eight cards of
these and like have them fold out or
stack out in some way. And in my
inspiration, I actually found this
really cool card. And this is more
horizontal. I don't think it's fitting
for our Apple Mimojis. And that's why I
went with more of these like vertical
cards, almost like a playing card deck.
So the only thing I have to do now is
duplicate this shape layer a few times.
And again, command D, control D on
Windows. Just dragging it out. And
ideally, I want this to be nicely
aligned. Now, I'm doing this a bit on
the eye because it's really difficult to
align this like perfectly. I just make
sure that this Apple emoji is with the
right card. In this case, it's layer
number nine. And then we can do the same
with the other ones. What I like to do
is just make sure that this is above the
layer that we want to move it with. And
then drag that here. Then I'm going to
link that. And the same for the others.
Now that they're all linked, I want to
animate them. So I'm going to select all
the cards while holding shift. I'm going
to press P for position. And let's set a
key frame here. Let's go a bit to the
front. Maybe 1 second before that. And
I'm going to go to the align tool,
composition, and I'm going to center
them all in the center. So they will
basically fold out like this. Now the
top part is already visible. And we also
have to animate that one in. And with
this one, I'm just going to move it from
the bottom. And I'll fade it in by using
the T for transparency, setting a key
frame, dragging this out, setting this
to zero, and then maybe having the
Mimoji pop up. The anchor point,
however, is wrong. So, we have to move
that. Let's use the pen behind tool for
that. And let's set this to the center.
Press S for scale. Set a key frame. Drag
this out. Put this to zero. I'm also
going to make sure that this is bouncy.
You can use an expression for this or
use a external plugin like motion tools.
Uh so this will make it bounce. Let's go
to the shape layer. Press U to see our
key frames. And what I'm going to do is
I'm going to uh move this position a bit
more to the left. Make sure that there's
another position key frame so it's a bit
stationary. And then let's ease our key
frames. So hit F9 on our keyboard. Go to
the graph editor and make sure that this
is like easing in. Right. So it goes
quite quick in the beginning and then it
like smooths out. And then for the next
animation, select all these position key
frames. Uh so we're going to just select
them all holding shift, clicking on the
first one, clicking on the last one,
pressing P for position uh to just see
the position key frames. Let's select
all these position key frames. I'm just
going to uh ease them on both sides. I'm
going to even drag these out by holding
Alt. And basically what I want to do is
make sure that the other cards are not
visible yet. So just the top one. And
that's actually really easy. We can just
select all of them and hit alt or hold
alt and then do left bracket so it will
cut them off. So we already have this
really clean animation. The only thing I
want to do is make sure that the text
once the card comes in also disappears.
And to do this I'm just going to hit P
for position. Set a key frame. And once
this is here, let's move this up. And
this will be a nice match cut. I want to
of course easy ease this graph editor
and make sure that this is nice and
smooth. and press T for opacity. And
what I want to do is also fade it out.
Right? So make sure that it's goes from
100% to zero. What we can even do is hit
P for position and move this a bit. So
it uh basically starts a bit earlier
with the animation. And as you can see,
this animation is all really, really
smooth in my opinion. Now I want to turn
these cards into a line. So let's select
all of the cards again. Let's go a bit
further and let's go to the align tool
and make sure it's aligned in the
center. And we already have a nice
animation here. And what I also want to
do is select all the rectangles here in
the layer contents by selecting the
first one, holding shift and selecting
the last one. And then we can set a key
frame for the size. So let's go and
start here. Set a key frame for the
size. Go a bit further. And then unlink
this and setting this to zero. Now, this
will look really ugly because our uh
mmojis will still be visible. But what
we can do now after we done this
animation, we can basically select all
of our mimojis. And by the way, quick
tip, we can just type in here PNG and
then we'll have all the mimojis. Then
select one of these and uh use a
trackmat feature to uh change it to the
shape layer. It's really easy. You just
every time choose the shape layer below
the Apple Mimoji and you know which one
that is because it's grayed out. So just
do it like this. And we do that a few
times. Now this will also turn all the
uh shape layers invisible. So let's
remove our PNG search. And let's turn
them all back on. Now nothing will be
changed until we see the animation where
it will mask all of our emojis. Now we
can also easy ease this animation. Let's
see what it will look like first. Let's
select all of our layers by hitting
command A and then type in uh size. So
we can select these and hit F9 on your
keyboard. And then you can also easy
ease them in the way that you want. And
as you can see, this looks really cool.
Now I want to have a line shown up. So
let's create a quick line. Go to the pen
tool and I'm just going to fake it
basically by creating a new line.
Holding shift to keep it straight. Make
sure nothing is selected. Make sure the
fill is off. Uh let's set that to none.
Make sure the stroke is set to a solid
color. And three pixels should be fine.
Maybe a bit more just to make sure that
it's filling the space. So, select the
shape layer, make it a bit thicker. And
what I can just do is press T for
transparency, set a key frame, and make
sure this fades in once this animation
is done. Now, I can also add a quick
deep glow to this. And I don't want this
to be that bright. So, let's set this to
like 0 maybe like comm, 05. That's
already bright enough in my opinion. And
then let's add a text to this. We can do
$1,000 because it's $1,000 on the line.
Now, I do want this white. Uh, let's
change this to white. And I also want to
have that layer style over it again. So,
layer style, gradient overlay. And
again, go into the gradient overlay.
Change that to reverse. And change the
opacity to something really low.
Something like 27. And let's move this.
And then we'll just do the same
animation. You can uh copy or paste
this. But what we can actually do is
also go to this animator. Go to the
text. And we already have this animator.
And you can drag this to the effects and
presets panel. And once you did that,
then you can actually reuse this effect.
So I named it character up. As you can
see, user preset. We can just drag that
on. And uh it's really nice. We already
have the animation. Now, of course, it
still needs a background. And it also
needs some continuous movements cuz
there's quite a lot of like stationary
shots here. And the key to have like
smooth animations in my opinion is to
have continuous movement. And we can
really easily do this by creating a new
null. So go to layer, new null object.
Then what you want to do is select the
layers that don't have a parent yet. And
once we select those, we can actually
parent these to the null. And now we can
add some animations to this. So first of
all, I might even like move this anyway
to make sure that this is nicely
centered. Now the rest won't be. So
maybe I'll move it. Let's see here. It's
fine. Maybe I'm going to put a P for
position here. And make sure that once
this animation is done, this is nicely
centered. Probably something like this.
Then I think the line here is also fine.
Yeah, nice. Just have to easy ease this.
And then what I also want to do is I'm
going to create another null. Uh layer,
new null. And I'm going to use that one
just to scale with. So we can parent
this one to this other null. Press S for
scale. And then basically what you do is
make sure that this is just for the
scaling. And this one we just keep in
the center. Uh and what we can do, for
example, set a key frame here. Set a key
frame here. And then make sure that it
scales up a bit. So there's a bit of
movement here already. And then maybe
here it zooms out again. Then maybe here
it zooms in again. And then maybe we'll
zoom it out again. And again, of course,
select all of these key frames and hit
F9 on them. Let's move this a bit. And
this one is a bit too much. So let's
remove that. And as you can see, we
already have a really nice animation.
There's a lot of movement happening and
is really entertaining to watch in my
opinion. Now again, it needs some
background, but we're already getting
somewhere. Now for the next part, I want
to do a match cut. So, I'm just going to
set R for rotation key frame. We can
move this a bit further. So, maybe it
goes to something like this. Again,
hitting F9 on your keyboard to make sure
that this is nice and smooth. So, it
goes like this. Maybe we'll make it even
a bit more rough. And we can already
start this key frame a bit earlier again
to make sure that there's continuous
movement. Now, of course, we have to
fade this out. We can also add a layer
on top of it. And by the way, I'm
skipping some part because it's just
adding more text, more layers, doing the
same things. Otherwise, this video will
also be way too long for YouTube. And if
you want to see the deep dives, then
just join the full stack editor club.
Link is in the description. Anyway, this
is the card where we're busy with. And
going to the next part, I want the
roaring tiger because it's wild, right?
And for this, I actually recorded this
Apple emoji on my iPhone. I'm going to
align this a bit better. And the cool
thing is that once we now link this
while this is straight and the rest is
not, it will move with the null object.
So it will turn the opposite direction.
And that's also how we can do a really
nice match cut. We can either fade it
out or cut it off. I am going to fade it
out. So I'm just going to create a layer
new uh solid. And let's make that just
black. Okay. Move that below our tiger.
And then press T for transparency. And
basically just fading this in. Once we
do that, this will fade in this
background. And then what I also want to
do is fade in the tiger. So press T for
transparency, set a key frame, and drag
that out. And once we time this right,
you will see that you get this really
nice match cut. We need to move these
key frames a bit. So it's basically on
the peak this happens. Maybe it goes a
bit. Move this a bit. And of course with
some motion blur, this will look way
better. And we can even make this tiger
pop up. But I think this is already
cool. Then I'm going to add the text
wildly different. But we can also copy a
text that we made before. We can
duplicate the uh $1,000. Make sure it's
nicely centered. So go into the uh
transform and let's reset this. I'm
going to unlink it. Uh reset it. And I'm
going to type here wildly
different. Perfect. It's not perfectly
aligned. Let's fix that first. And I
also want to make it a bit bit bigger.
So I can just scale it up. It's a bit
hard to read as you can see. And that's
basically because the tiger is quite
bright. Uh we can just like dial the
tiger down. So it's a bit dark in the in
the beginning. It's a bit in the
background. Now once it roars, I think
we need to move this emoji movie a bit.
So press U on our key frames and let's
move these and then let's move this
layer because I want it to roar a bit
more quick. We can also link the text to
the null so moves with it. Uh so we can
move it a bit earlier. That's very nice.
Now we maybe want to scale the null a
bit here so it like zooms in. For
example, once it roars, I want it to of
course move to the sides. There's
multiple ways to do this. You can also
mask it. So, we can also go to the
rectangle tool and then just mask
wildly. Duplicate this layer. Command D
or control D on Windows. And then we
still have this other layer open. So, we
can set this to subtract. It's really
simple. We just set a key frame for the
position on both. And basically, once it
roars, it moves to the sides. This one
to this side and this one to that side.
And of course, easy ease this. This is
really dope. Uh now I also want while
this is happening to have the emoji or
tiger scale up and the opacity to go up
too. So basically it looks something
like this. Uh which in my opinion looks
already really dope. What I don't like
however is that I also want some
distortion in this text. Now you can use
bolts or you can use CC lens for that.
Let's see. Let's try CC lens. And let's
change the size to be a bit bigger. And
then I want the convergence to be on
minus 100. So it basically wraps around
a bit. Now I can even change the size so
it even bends a bit more. And then I can
just copy this effect and paste it on
the other text. As you can see, it gives
this really cool effect. Now for the
next animation, I want these trophies.
And I want this style specifically cuz I
think it looks really dope. Now I can of
course make this in 3D. It will take a
lot of time. So we're going to use AI
for this. And I will have a separate
tutorial on this. So basically now I
want to transition to the next layer and
we can just use a circle for this. So
let's use a ellipse. Let's make sure
that nothing is selected and let's drag
this. Hold shift to make sure it's
circular. And then we can go to the
selection tool and move this up.
Something like this. Very nice. Then we
can even set the fill to black uh stroke
to zero. And then press S for scale and
set a key frame. Basically, what I want
to do is once it roars, it's basically
coming from the mouth or somewhat from
the mouth. And again, with motion blur,
this will look uh really cool. And
there's no background now, but if we
have a background, uh you'll really see
this. For example, I have this uh cool
gradient background. I can use the
circle that we just created uh as a
trackmat. And then once this opens, as
you can see, it will have this cool
effect. Now, we can add the trophies,
which look like this. Um I created these
using AI. I will have a separate
tutorial on this how I created this. The
only thing I want to do is add a extract
to this. Let's make sure that the others
are not selected. I'm also going to do a
quick rough mask and then just change
the black point. It will make it look a
bit ugly. As you can see, if we change
this to full, you can see that it's not
properly keyed out, especially at the
edges. A quick and easy fix is adding a
rin edges to this. As you can see, I
just changed these settings. So border
27, edge sharpness one, fractal
influence to zero. And basically what
this will do, it will smooth the edges a
bit. And as you can see, feathers it a
bit. It's still not perfect if you
really zoom in. Uh but again, you have
to really zoom in. If we zoom out,
you'll see that it still has this really
cool effect. Now, what's cool is that
this trophy is rotating. Uh so basically
what I want is to move it from the right
to the left. So I'm just going to press
P for position, set a key frame, and
drag this out. and then move it to the
right. And basically, we'll just move in
the screen. And of course, we have to
easy ease this. I want this to be
really, really smooth. Go to the graph
editor, select the last key frame, and
drag this out. So, we have this really
nice smooth animation. Uh, we can also
add some motion blur to this, of course.
Now, we might want to blend it in a bit
better uh using a like dark mask around
this. Or what we can even do is create a
black solid and then uh using a ellipse
like dragging this a bit, pressing F for
feather, then feathering this by a lot,
pressing T for transparency, and then
making this side a bit darker. And then
maybe scaling it up a bit just to make
the scene look a bit nicer, right? And
these subtle things, as you can see,
will really make this trophy pop. Of
course, we need to add some text
animations, but this is nothing too
crazy. So, we have the trophies, we have
the awards. Now, I want to have the
cards pop up with something like this.
And I also want to have a cool 3D cursor
flying in. That's all I want. I just
want a 3D cursor. So, let's just create
a new solid. I'm going to make it white
for now. And let's cut that in. So, we
can even have a match cut where this
trophy moves to the left and then like
the rest of the elements also move from
right to left. And what we can actually
do is select all of the cards that we
had before and just duplicate them. What
I'm going to do is I'm going to select
them all by clicking on the first one,
holding shift, and then clicking on the
last one, duplicating that, and moving
this all the way to the top. Now that we
have our cards here, let's move them in
a nice circular way. And for this
effect, I'm going to create a new null
object. So, layer, new object, and
basically press R for rotation. Uh, but
before I do, let's move this a bit like
down. Something like this. Then, select
all the cards. So holding shift and then
just selecting them like that. Then I'm
going to align them to the center so
they're all at the same spot. Maybe like
something like here. And then basically
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
link every time a shape to it and just
rotate it a bit. So a bit like this.
Next one. And so on and so on. Now once
you've done this you already have a
really cool effect and you can keep it
like this. But I want the cards to stay
upright. And for this I created a cool
expression. Chic created it. And
basically it's a simple expression this
comp layer and then null 29 which is the
null transform rotation. So it will
basically use the same rotation as this.
And by doing so it will uh make it
straight. And we can also just copy and
paste this expression to all these shape
layers. Again pressing R for rotation
holding alt clicking on the stopwatch
and pasting it. There we go. And as you
can see they will stay nice and
straight. And if we now rotate it, they
will stay uh straight, which is a really
cool effect in my opinion. So, we can
now set a key frame and go a bit further
and have them pop in something like
this. Now, to light them up, it's really
simple. We can just add a deep glow to
the ones that we want to light up. And
then we can just key frame the exposure.
Uh you might also want to add a curves
to it just to make sure that the colors
stay a bit nice. Something like this.
And again, we can just set a key frame
on the uh exposure going up. Now,
there's two more things. The cursor and
making it look nice. For the cursor, I'm
actually going to create a new comp.
Something like this. Press okay. And I
have this 3D pointer, which you won't be
able to see now because it's uh laying
flat. So, press R for rotation. And I
downloaded this from Sketchvap. Press S
for scale. So, we can scale it up. And
as you can see, we have this nice 3D
pointer. And we can do whatever we want
with this. It's it's really that simple.
If we make it transparent, uh you can
see it a bit better. And uh we can, for
example, have it fly in with a P for
position. And of course, we also want to
set a key frame for the rotational
values. Maybe drag this out. Uh let's
move it towards the camera. Maybe a bit
lower, maybe a bit rotated, so it will
fly in. And then, of course, I want it
to be uh upright. And you can also
change the anchor point, but I don't
think that should be needed. If we just
move it a bit like this. And again uh
maybe like have it a bit like rotate it
to make it a bit more more cool. And
again just select the key frames and
then maybe ease it a bit so it goes like
this.
Very good and very nice. And of course
we can add some motion blur later on.
And you can't do that here because it's
advanced 3D. However, there is a cool
effect which I will show you in a bit.
So we have the cursor coming in and then
maybe we want it to click and we do that
by hitting a key frame for scale. So,
press S for scale and then maybe like
scaling it down and scaling it up again.
Copy and paste that key frame. So, it's
like maybe this goes a bit too slow.
Nice. And again, we can just go back to
our main comp and add this comp to that.
And uh what's cool about this now is
that we can add a CC force motion blur
over this. And as you can see that we'll
add some motion blur to it. We of course
have to align it a bit and things like
that, but we already have this cool
animation. Now, to finish it up, I want
to make it look nice. And that's by
adding some adjustment layers. So let's
start with the beginning. I want to for
example create a new adjustment layer
and just add like a soft vignette over
this just to blend things a bit and it
will already make it look a bit nicer.
Uh before and after. As you can see it
will just add a bit of moodiness to it.
Also here I think that will look really
nice. Then of course I want to add
motion blur to everything. So I'm just
going to select everything and hit the
motion blur icon. I think it also looks
cool in this scene. Uh, in this scene,
maybe I'm going to even add some like
edge light to it or a CC lens. So, what
we can do is duplicate this adjustment
layer here. Hit alt left bracket. So,
this adjustment layer only starts when
this scene starts. So, that's around
here. We remove the vignette. And I'm
going to add a CC lens to this because I
think here with the cars coming up,
having some distortion can actually make
the scene look way nicer. Let's increase
the size so we don't see the black
borders anymore. And then let's go to
where the cards come in. As you can see,
it's way too much. Now, uh so what we
need to do is change the convergence uh
to maybe something like this, like 16.
Uh also make sure that this is then
below the uh vignette, otherwise it will
also move the vignette with it. And we
can also make blurred edges. And then
you get something like this. A huge
shout out to Milanote for sponsoring
this video. I love their software. Their
link is in the description. So do use it
for all your storyboarding. If you want
to learn more about this editing style,
then do join the fullstack editor club.
A link of that is also in the
description. Then of course, don't
forget to subscribe. Thanks for all the
support and then I'll see you next time.
Bye-bye.
