[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IC Capital offers
intuitive, scalable digital solutions
that have transformed how private market
and hedge fund investments are bought
and sold. With I Capital, financial
adviserss, wealth managers, and asset
managers around the world now have
access to everything they need to
deliver the return and diversification
potential of alternatives to high-n
networth investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, Bill Kelly is joined by
Cain Brennan, CEO of TIFF, and Anne
Dugen, managing director at TIFF, to
explore the firm's origins, investment
philosophy, and the evolving landscape
of institutional investing. Kane and
Anne share how TIFF was founded to
deliver institutional quality returns to
endowments and foundations, the
structural advantages that drive their
manager access, and the firm's strategic
approach to asset allocation. The
conversation covers macroeconomic
influences, the impact of new endowment
taxes, liquidity considerations, and why
private equity and hedge funds remain
critical to long-term portfolio
performance. They also examine the
nuances of manager selection, structural
premiums in private markets, and the
challenges of adapting sophisticated
institutional strategies for retail
investors.
[Music]
>> Kane Brennan and Anne Dugen, welcome to
Educational Alpha.
>> Thank you so much for having us. We're
excited to be here.
>> Thank you, Bill, for having us.
>> It's great. And as I said to you in the
green room, I don't do many of these
with two guests, but we had the prep
call and and you do a lot on the content
and thought leadership side and I always
love to find an excuse to get a fellow
KAIA member in the house. Anyway, so
here we are and I think it's going to be
a very good discussion. So typically we
ask the guests in this case it is plural
to give a little bit of a background so
the audience knows your point and where
you're coming from and then we're going
to move from there to what is TIFF and
is it TIFF or TIFF? So we can get into
that in a moment but maybe Kane I'll
start with you. My background is I'm
currently CEO of TIFF and it is TIFF and
we can get into the origin story of our
organization and prior to coming here
about five years ago I spent 22 years at
Goldman Sachs some portion of that time
as an investment banker a lot of
leverage finance related obviously to
alternatives and a bunch of time on the
secondary private equity side and then
for the last 10 or 12 years ran the
multi-asset class group which did OCIO
as well as some strategic partnerships
around the globe as well as some large
retail funds in the multiasset class
space.
>> Well, we're going to find out a very
good proving ground for what TIFF is
doing today. Ann,
>> thanks Bill. I am a managing director at
TIFF focused on working with our clients
to come up with solutions that align
their investment portfolios to their
institutional and missiondriven needs.
Before coming to TIFF, I have always
worked in financial services, in
professional services across the
alternatives landscape at other
outsource investments office as well as
some of the investment banks like Morgan
Stanley and Credit SW even doing manager
due diligence earlier in my career.
>> We're going to certainly come back to
the importance of due diligence probably
more important now than it ever has
been. And I think that's been part of
both of your backgrounds. Certainly, I
think a big part of what TIFF is. Kane,
with your backgrounds now in record,
maybe a little bit of the origins of
TIFF and maybe to lead where I'm looking
to go with this. It's interesting what
little I know about TIFF and thinking
about democratization for the average
investor, maybe we need a TIFF 2.0 for
the wealth space, but we can get to that
in a moment. So, I think TIFF is about
30ish years old. So maybe some of the
origins, where it grew up, and what your
expectations and plans are as you look
forward today.
>> TIFF has an amazing origin story. TIFF
was founded in the early '9s. People in
the nonprofit space came together and
basically had the observation that
smaller endowments and foundations, and
TIFF, by the way, as a digression,
stands for the investment fund for
foundation. So it's an acronym. That's
how we come up with TIFF. The insight
was that smaller now foundations don't
get the same level of returns as the
large places the much bali hood Ivy
Leagues and the Gates Foundation the
Ford Foundation these large
organizations that could we create
almost an industry utility of some of
the world's and in our minds best
investors sitting in one spot and
delivering those same types of returns
to smaller endowments and foundations.
When TIP was founded, it was founded by
some of the heavyweights in the
industry. The David Salemss, the Larry
Landries, the David Swenson's, the Jack
Meyers, the Alice Handies. All of these
people came together in the '9s and
said, "Let's create TIFF." TIFF was very
early into alternatives. It was really
innovative around hedge funds, private
equity, and that's basically what we've
been doing for the last 34 years is
delivering institutional type returns
with a heavy dose of active management,
a heavy dose of endowment management, a
heavy dose of alternatives to
predominantly endowments and
foundations. Over the years, at
different junctures, people that have an
endowment and a pension plan. Our
foundation happened to be high net
worth. We've taken on some smattering of
clients away from the core of endowments
and foundations, but that has continued
to be the majority of our client base.
You'd ask the second question, which
what is our vision going forward? TIFF
was founded as I said solely to deliver
investment returns and if you look back
and because of compliance regulations I
won't go through our returns but people
have told us they're top decile maybe
even top whatever a 5 percentile would
be and so we have an opportunity I think
to continue to deliver those type of
investment returns to the endowment and
foundation and base but also to be able
to customize for some of the larger
clients because of that origin story. It
really was focused initially on the
smallest endowments and foundations. And
what we found in the last decade or so
is that larger organizations 200, 300,
400, 500 million also need the same
level of exposure, the same types of
returns and allocations that the smaller
organizations need. but they demand and
merit and want a level of customization
that is different than call it a 20 or a
30 or $40 million school or foundation.
So, we've been able to say that that's
plan one. plan two is we do have and
we'll probably get into this later in
the call what we perceive to be
privileged access to really hard to
access general partners and particularly
in the private equity and hedge fund and
even in the long only space and we have
found that some people want to use us as
parts providers for that access and I'll
just do a quick digression here we think
one of the reasons we get such good
access besides our origin story besides
the team which I can get into. One of
the structural advantages is having that
endowment and foundation base. If you're
a general partner and you have people
throwing money at you, frequently you
feel you get some psychic satisfaction
in saying, "I want to get to choose my
LPs." And somewhere very near the top of
your LP list is someone that has the
type of client base that we have. So
there are other structural advantages we
have but we think that origin story and
the fact that we have worked
predominantly with endowments and
foundations for 30 35 years actually has
this virtuous pinwheel effect with
giving us great access and therefore
great investment results. So let me stop
there. There's more to what we do and
more to our plans but I think that's
enough to begin. It is absolutely and
I'm going to park my observation on
democratization for a moment because I
want to take it in somewhat order and I
think Ann you have some views on that as
well but Kane maybe just segueing to the
macro because you've got to navigate a
lot and the more things change the more
they stay the same. This time is
different. It usually is not but we just
signed the big beautiful bill a week or
so ago and this will probably air in
September but we're sitting here in mid
July. Tariffs are an issue. Geopolitical
hotspots around the world. Fed
independence is under constant threat
and what that means visa rates and
inflation. So, you've got to factor this
all into your calculus as an investor.
And sometimes it is noise in the short
term and doesn't really impact things
longer term. But how do you take all of
this in and how does it affect your
investment thesis? This being the macro
backdrop,
>> we countenance macro a lot. I would say
our starting premise is though and I
think this is a mistake a lot of
investors make. You don't actually have
to have a view on everything and a
position on everything. So we generally
like to be fully risked. We think that
there's clear resilience to the equity
risk premium in our mind clear
resilience to alternative returns. And
so we generally start with our strategic
asset allocation. We end up customizing
that for most of our clients that may
have a different risk posture, a
different ability to take on equity
risk, etc. illli liquidity risk. But
once we have that starting point, we
don't feel like we have to do anything.
And our bias is to only do something
when we see a fat pitch. So if you think
about March and April this year, we were
really close to a fat pitch. Actually,
we would tell clients that we were more
biased to go long than short, that
neutral point. Our view was that some of
the difficult things for the market to
digest like tariffs and some of the
volatility were being front-loaded and
some of the positive elements and
tariffs would be a long discussion.
What's positive and what's negative?
Probably predominantly negative but some
decent things. But the unambiguously
positive things like deregulation
and some of the likely tax breaks that
would come through would be more backend
loan. So we were pretty close to going
overweight. We did some modest things
like rebalance early, but we didn't do a
significant overweight because we didn't
think we were quite at a fat pitch, but
we were really, really close. I could
put some numbers around that if that's
interesting. So, some of the views we
have today that I think are interesting
versus the market, there's a lot of
discussion about should you now be exus
and is the US exceptionalism or
outperformance gone for forever. We're
probably more balanced on that view. We
have looked at some opportunities
outside the US, but we've continued to
think some of the natural and structural
advantages to the US are going to
persist. So on the margin, we've made a
little bit of changes, but we haven't
done like some have done and said, I
have to be overweight Europe to a
significant degree. I have to be
overweight other parts of the world.
Some of the things we're debating today
are around the US dollar. At least one
of us and here I will say me believe the
US dollar is going to depreciate for
various reasons not least of which by
almost any measure it's been overvalued
by a long period of time people that
invest in currencies know they tend to
go in cycles some of the things we've
done as a country think on the margin
have made the US dollar slightly less
attractive and that's all markets are on
the margin so when you see Bitcoin and
gold and other precious metals going up
you know that there's some bid away from
the dollar towards other things that
might hold their value. But I think at
least as importantly is if you cycle
through what Trump wants to achieve and
this administration wants to achieve
around making a manufacturing
renaissance and changing our trade
dynamics, having a weaker dollar would
be highly beneficial to those types of
things. So for lots of reason there's
not unanimous views around the dollar in
our organization but I guess I would say
that and maybe the strongest view just
to hit one that we clearly have in our
portfolios is short rates. So versus our
benchmark we are short overall fixed
income we are short duration. It's a
view we've held for a long time. We
think there's real asymmetry towards
just to pick the 10 year. Is the 10ear
more likely to go to 6% then call it 2
and a half% from here? And we think it's
more likely 6% for various reasons not
least of where some of the deflationary
impulses that persisted in our country
for 10 to 12 years called from 09 to
2021 have dissipated. We also are
worried that Congress has not shown a
great proclivity to reduce its profleacy
and we are very disappointed that Doge
and some of the other initiatives
weren't more successful. Put aside all
politics, just what is the one biggest
risk to the US continual outperformance
exceptionalism is this debt bomb of
whatever it is today 35 trillion plus
another 50 trillion that are off balance
sheet. And so when and how are we going
to address that? And so as investors,
multi-asset class investors that have
the ability to move assets around, we
have just stayed short duration, not on
every given day, but just long term. And
so that's a position we have today.
There's a lot of other macro views. So
we count it in our portfolio. But I want
to zoom back up just for a second. The
way we think about investing for our
clients is the majority of the money is
picking the right strategic asset
allocation for their objectives. Then
the second thing is producing alpha for
them by getting them into what we
perceive to be exceptional managers. And
then the third thing is on the margin if
there's a fat pitch tactically moving
the portfolio. So everything I've been
talking about is in that third column
and it's not actually a huge part of our
risk budget, but it does inform and
contextualize everything we do on any
given day. Maybe one followup and we'll
get an in here. Maybe it's an
observation, maybe it's a question. This
big beautiful bill, I absolutely agree
with your sentiment is it's very much
tied to the dollar. The debt and
deficits, there seems to be no ceiling
to this. And I look at that long end of
the curve and we can talk about
independence of the Fed all we want and
we can set the short-term rate at zero
if we want to, but the outside buyer is
going to determine what the risk premium
is of investing in the US dollar and
funding this deficit. And I think the
longer end of that curve has no chance
of going anywhere but up. I agree with
your investment thesis there. And I just
don't know what the rating agency's
eventually going to do over time and
raising the debt ceiling and constantly
kicking this can down the road. And Doge
could have been a very good solution.
But I agree with you, it's failed to
deliver.
>> It's a really hard issue. As people have
said, the world only ends once. So
betting chronically for the world to end
is a money losing strategy. So when is
the 10ear going to have its UK, as
people like to call it euphemistically
Liz trust moment? I don't know. None of
us know. The one thing that argues
against it happening in the next week,
month, year is where is the money going
to go? Everyone talks about the US being
the cleanest dirty shirt. And in some
ways that's true. And so you just hope
that there is maturity in Washington and
a view to address it earlier because it
will eventually be painful. But when
that is, people have been saying it for
a decade as we went from 60% to 80% to
100% to 110% of GDP that we're going to
have a moment where the bond vigilantes
run wild. It's hard to figure out when
that moment is.
>> And maybe just staying on this big
beautiful bill for just another minute
or two, a couple things in there. It was
over a thousand pages long got left on
the cutting room floor and one early
which was this revenge tax which could
have impacted 60 to 70 trillion of
foreign investment coming into the US.
So I'm glad that got shot before the
final bill hit the Senate. But there was
also this endowment tax that impacts I
think some of your clients, not all of
them because it seems like the larger
ones got nicked with this. So I think it
was better than forecasted. But if I
understand it right, and I think you
wrote a thought piece on this, I think
it might be an 8% tax to the larger
endowments. And they've got to pay that
regardless of what inflation is. So that
is a big hit to their business line when
the corporation is taking out 5 to 6%
net of inflation every single year, too.
I guess it was a win relative to where
it was. But what is the current
viewpoint? And maybe I misstated exactly
what the final analysis was in the bill
for this endowment tax. You're right in
that the final version included an
introduction of a tiered endowment tax.
The current tax is a flat 1.4%
on private endowments
over 500,000
AUum per full-time student. That has now
increased to including a 4% tier and an
8% tier. And you're entirely in one
tier. you're not paying a little bit
like you and I may pay our income tax.
The final version is certainly worse
than where it is today in that you were
formerly in a 1.4%
and now you're 6x and an 8%. Better than
the house version which the highest tier
was 21% which was put at that rate
because it's about the corporate tax
rate. It kind of depends on where your
reference point is. Better than the
initial proposal but worse than where we
stand today. I think it's important to
understand and appreciate the size and
impact of what that tax is because it is
larger than it is before and it is of
course meaningful from a budgetary
perspective for any school that's
impacted. Those are now dollars that
will not be going into the budget that
will be going to the federal government.
But from a investment perspective, an 8%
and again this is on net investment
income. The impact is per some analysis
that TIFF did internally is about 30 to
50 basis points in an 8% tier. Now
that's not atrocious. It's meaningful,
but it's not something where we think
you'll see a wholesale change in
investment approach to try to offset
that. We think it's more a tweaking of a
strategy to either ensure that your
target return is a little bit higher so
that your after tax return is where you
were before or to minimize the tax. Now
you can't get rid of taxes just like
people always say the certainty in life
is death in taxes. That's going to be
the same at least for the tax part for
endowments where they can minimize the
tax, they can try to defer taxes. There
will likely always be some. You'll
probably see some strategies around
that. Whether it's taking a page from
taxable investors and doing tax loss
harvesting, perhaps we'll see routine
secondary sales now become more common
because there's a value to taking a
loss. Or perhaps you'll see endowments
who have the liquidity move into more
tax friendly asset classes like private
equity, which we're likely to talk about
here, and perhaps away from tax
unfriendly strategies like high turnover
hedge funds. I think those are some of
the things you'll see as endowments look
to offset some of that tax. But again,
the magnitude from an investment
perspective, 30 to 50 basis points
tweaking of the strategy, not a
wholesale change of approach.
>> Maybe this is a good segue because all
things being equal or on the margin or
however you want to categorize it, I
think all investors, particularly given
this endowment tax, they're going to
have to be more liquid as opposed to
less liquid for various reasons. We've
seen a lot of merchandise going on sale
at some of the larger endowments. And
this follows a trend. You can't pay
taxes with DPI distributions paid in
capital. So you need to have greater
liquidity. There might have been an
article that TIFF was quoted in or wrote
that was in PNI and it's on PNI daily.
I'm a subscriber to PNI but not the
daily. So I couldn't read the full
article, but I think it was titled the
latest in private markets. But I could
see two very interesting and competing
headlines when I went there. And these
there's no magic to it. One was CalPERS
joins growing wave of pension funds
offloading PE stakes volume hits record.
The very next headline and maybe one
after that, so right almost next door
was retail investors projected to
account for at least 1/ half of private
market flows by 2020. They're on the
receiving end of this large S. And then
we just saw this week that Trump is
likely to sign an executive order
directing the SEC and the DOL to provide
guidance to allow DC plans to commit to
this space. And I saw a quote there that
some of the big PE shops or at least
this article described it as a pot of
gold for the PE industry. That pot of
gold belongs to the investor. I hope
it's a pot of gold for them as well. So
a lot there. You don't have to comment
specifically any of those headlines, but
maybe it's a good opening bid for what
you're seeing and what TIFF is seeing
around democratization.
>> Going back to your broader comment
around what issues are institutional
investors facing today, I think what you
see with Kalpers is actually what you
mentioned is perhaps a data point for
broader headwinds that face the
nonprofit space at large. There are more
challenges and more headwinds. These
investors are hyperfocused on ensuring
that their investment portfolios deliver
for them so that they can deliver on
whatever their end mission is. As you
noted, they're facing all sorts of
different issues. Whether it's broad
economic issues like continued
inflation, like we just saw the print
come out, was worse than the month
before. a lot of federal policy changes
that are impacting the space. Federal
aid, federal services getting cut,
changes in tax incentivizations, then
even more specific industry issues,
higher ed, facing drop in enrollment.
These institutional investors are facing
issues at the highest level. They're
looking to their investment portfolios
to ensure that those portfolios can
deliver for them. And liquidity is one
of the biggest issues right now. When
you think about all of the issues that I
just noted, our clients are really
focused on ensuring they have the right
amount of liquidity given that the
underlying assumptions of their rules of
engagement, I'll call them, are
shifting. They need to make sure that
they have an alignment of what's
available in that pool of capital for
potential emergency needs or some of
them are even scenario planning of okay
well what if some of these bad potential
outcomes come we go into recession we
have lower future withdrawals how do we
shore up shortfalls one thing that has
happened that I think everyone listening
to this podcast will be aware of is that
private equity allocations for certain
investors has gotten overallocated
There are institutions that have gone to
the markets to rebalance their
portfolios to increase liquidity to one
get back to where they need to be in
terms of their asset allocation but also
improve their liquidity profile because
they're facing so many challenges. They
don't want to be caught on their back
foot in serving what their institution
needs because all these pools of capital
are for another purpose. They're not
just to make more money for the pursuit
of more money. They're all intended for
an end goal, whether it's a pension or
an educational budget or more charitable
giving approach.
>> So, your client base covers a spectrum
from probably the small to the very
large, very sophisticated, maybe a
smaller investment office or less
sophistication in some cases too. But
all things being equal, and Kane
mentioned this as well, part of your
offering is access. And that's
critically important. You could have a
very small and sophisticated CIO office,
but unless you have that access, it's
very difficult to find those right
managers, especially when performance
dispersion is so very wide. But if I
think about all of what you just said
about these big endowments, foundations
trying to balance against calls in their
capital, charitable giving, they're
moving more liquid. If you have a
foundation for the very first time
that's coming to you trying to get into
the private markets, this could be an
opportune time to come in because there
are a lot of interesting entry points.
Maybe a manager you know very well is
kind of been closed. Maybe they're
opening back up again. So there's two
sides to every coin and is this not only
for TIFF? You could speak about that
model if you want, but generally could
this be a very good time for a small
foundation or one that's not been in
alts to be coming in for the very first
time?
>> I would say yes. When you think about
what is underlying the endowment model
and really a lot of investing, it's
going where other people are not and
finding value in that approach. Right
now, I think the industry is split on
whether the future of private equity is
positive or negative. TIFF is strongly
in the camp of that there's a lot of
value there and there is a return
premium to be had within the industry in
particular for our clients where
traditional 60/40 isn't going to cut it.
They are looking for delivering on their
target return. And how do you do that
when you probably don't have more risk
that you can take and maybe you have
some liquidity capacity, which is where
private equity comes in, but maybe it's
just around improving your overall alpha
potential, which back to the access
point is really important to ensure that
you have the right managers that you can
deliver on the overall alpha composition
of your portfolio. Private equity is
interesting right now in particular
because people are running away from it.
The institutional capital is probably
just a time when you should say maybe
that is actually an interesting space to
be in. Are there fundamentals there that
are still holding strong despite some of
the past 2 to 3 years that we've seen in
the overall market in particular the
exit market which has really been kind
of a desert
>> for our client base. We tend to have a
significant chunk of the portfolio
committed to private equity and we do
believe there are governance and market
dynamics that make private equity well
accessed superior to the public markets
and I actually put it into three pieces.
Just overall we think of private equity
and kind of the alignment of interest
the ability to get non-public
information within the law. The ability
to add value to portfolio companies, the
ability to get term debt, the ability to
not always be 100% invested are
structural advantages to private equity.
That's point one. Point two is we think
there are particular sectors within
private equity that are more interesting
and more attractive and the ability to
add value and outsize returns there. And
then the third is the point that an has
been touching on which is the manager
access. Everyone has seen the same
charts where public market managers tend
to be within a 100 basis points of the
benchmark and private equity managers
tend to be within a thousand plus or
minus from the benchmark. So clearly if
you're able to access the top first or
even second quartile managers you're
going to get outperformance. I put it in
those three buckets. We can talk about
access because it's really a critical
critical point but just on your question
about retail I put it into two buckets.
One is these interval funds and things
that are trying to introduce liquidity
to what is by its nature an illlquid
asset class. You buy a company and you
have to wait seven years till you've
improved the operations to sell it. And
sometimes there's sparse exits like
we've gone through for the last two
years. And there are other times where
it's better to sell companies and access
the public markets or sell it on to
strategics and you get a lot of
liquidity. So it's not by its nature a
daily liquid asset class. So some of
these vehicles are trying to make it a
daily liquid asset class and so what you
end up getting I think there's been a
huge movement to this these tender offer
interval funds evergreen you're really
trying to square peg and round hole or
vice versa and so you end up getting
diluted private equity you have to
change something about the core
characteristics to make it fit in that
structure of having some level of
liquidity the 401k market actually
depending upon how you use it actually
makes sense to If you got a 2060 target
date fund for it to have some private
equity in there where it's committing to
the private equity and you got a whole
bunch of people coming in and out of
that 2060 target date fund, it's not
going to have to get liquidity till 2060
for some of these people. And even if
you have a different shareholder base
during that period, that actually can
make sense. You're really trying to use
the asset class as it was intended, very
long term, kind of like an endowment or
a foundation or a pension plan or
sovereign wealth fund. It's when you try
to say, "Hey, I want to have private
equity, but I wanted to have it weekly
liquid." It's not really private equity.
So, I do think the manager access point
is one of the most important points if
you're going to try to do private equity
well or hedge funds well, but private
equity for this conversation. Manager
access is one of the keys.
>> We could take this in a lot of different
directions and run out the clock of my
record long podcast came. But I think
it's worthwhile staying on this for a
moment because I agree with most of what
you said particularly manager selection
being so critically important. On the
one hand, if I have my self-directed IRA
or let's for argument sake say Trump
signs an executive order and now I can
choose a whole host of interval funds
for my 401k.
The likelihood I'm going to get a
differentiated return is very very low
versus I think what you just said. I
think the very best entry point for
privates is in a target date fund.
You've got professional management.
You've got a portfolio manager with a
pool that might be billions of dollars
of assets. They get access to hopefully
these top quartile top decel managers
and you're holding it for the long term.
And I haven't seen this recently, but
Morning Star, I think they do it every
year. They do a gap analysis between
what the average fund has done in
long-term space. So equities, debt, I
think they do one for alternatives. They
also do one for target date funds. And
invariably the investor is day trading
their way to at least 100 basis point or
more shortfall versus what the fund
itself delivered. One of these I saw
recently from Morning Star is the target
date fund didn't do as well as the
individual because they're clipping the
coupon every two weeks, putting money in
dollar cost averaging. And that is the
way smart investors think. And I think
if there's anything that in the more
retail mindset is on cruise control, it
is the target date fund. But I think the
challenge for the investor is that if
I've got the house and I've got taxable
investments and I've got my 401k plan
and in my 401k plan I have say a 20%
allocation to a target date fund. If you
add up my net exposure to the
alternatives, it might be a very very
low number. So you can comment on any of
that. But I want to come back to the
observation I was making before which is
I think it was the Ford Foundation
created common fund. The MacArthur
Foundation created TIFF. Do we need
somebody to create I don't know what the
acronym would be but a tiff for the
individual investors where I could go to
them and say okay I've got this small
corpus of money. I'm the equivalent of a
small foundation similar to what we see
in the Australian super fund model.
could you be the aggregator along with
all of the other small investors and do
that manager access for me as well? Hard
to scale it, but I think we need
something like that ultimately because
you need that professional management,
the due diligence, the manager
selection, education is a critical
component of it as well.
>> I'll try to address that in two pieces.
One is first on the manager access. In
some ways, manager access and private
equity is easy in the sense that you can
tell who the winners are. And so I'll
give you some stats to amplify that
point. And this is from a research paper
done by University of Chicago in late
2022 and people can find it online. But
the persistence of buyout managers per
this paper for Q1 first quartile from
fund one to fund two or fund A to fund
B, it's 35%. And so if you were in the
first quartile in fund A, the likelihood
that you're going to be first quartile
in fund B is 35%. That's astonishing
persistence. Actually, it doesn't seem
like it, but if you do that with lots of
public market, it's like 25.00001.
It's a coin toss. With VC, it's even
better. It's 45%. And the likelihood
that you would drop from first quartile
to fourth quartile is only 12%. So, just
think about that astonishing
persistence. So, you can identify, I
think, who the really good managers are.
Sometimes you can't get access. You need
an angle. The way we do it is we have a
few angles. We tout our client base
which a lot of GPS like. We have this
board which I know you know about.
Similar to our origin story, we've been
able to maintain a board of these
allstar CIOS in the industry that help
us think through investing and help us
get manager access. We've also been
doing it for a long time. We use the
analogy we have beachfront property you
can't build in front of us. These
managers haven't taken a new LP in 20
years. Those are our structural
advantages or ways we think about it.
Other people may have other ways that
they get into and maybe it's their
friend or their sister-in-law or
whoever. You have to have some ability
to have access and to get in. On your
second point on retail needing an
industry utility, it's about our
business, but we have worked with a lot
of raas that say, "Look, I know I'm not
going to be able to get access to the
same types of managers on alternative
side." And the conversation is usually
broader than just private equity. How
can I use you as a parts provider? And I
actually love that model because what a
lot of those RAS and family offices,
they're extraordinarily good at things
that TIFF doesn't do today, which is
wealth planning, tax planning, estate
planning, all sorts of adjacent services
that mass affluent and high net worth
and ultra high netw worth want. And
they're really, really good at that. and
they know that the missing piece for
them is to get access to things that are
going to be drivers of the overall
portfolio at least for a portion of it
and who can they find to do that that
that's their area of expertise. So we
have done some of this where I'd say
where the intel inside for some of these
rais in short I think that industry
capability or utility so to speak exists
today and not only with obviously with
some of our competitors as well
>> the sustainability of performance and
those stats are astonishing and I think
a good reminder about the persistency of
performance and it doesn't exist in the
public markets and this is maybe one of
the reasons why Jack Bogle created
Vanguard 50, 70 years ago, whatever the
timeline was. Some could argue that was
a windfall for the average investor
because they could get exposure to the
beta very inexpensively.
And this may be sort of fantasy land
cane, but if I think about trying to do
right by the retail investor and the
wealth investor and some of this is
probably not quite your target market,
but if we could build a thesis that
private equity on average has a 300
basis point return over time, better
than public equity, and I'm making that
number up. We could discuss what the
number is, but is there a way of
creating beta access to private equity?
And I've had a couple of guests on this
program and a few folks I've met in the
course of my travels. Not for want of
trying. There are some replication
indices out there where you can
replicate it. But I think the flaw is
that if you're creating access, even if
it's a public market proxy, if you're
allowing day trading at a regular basis,
the likelihood you can end up with
anything better than the S&P 500 is
probably low in the first place. So
maybe to get it back to the original
thesis, could you ever see a sustainable
replication for private equity beta to
at least allow the investor to have
exposure to it somewhat cheaply?
>> I think the short answer is no because I
think it's a fundamentally flawed
premise. I think the beta of private
equity is the same as the public
markets. I just think the beta is the
same. And so you're saying, can I get
better beta than the public markets? No.
I want to have all the alpha but not
suffer the downside of locking my
capital up and really trying to get
access to the best managers and doing
significant diligence and think about
what all that that entails and having an
angle to find diligence and then
convince a manager to let me be an LP.
No, that alpha is hard to do. And so
when you say can you get private market
beta? Yeah, it's called the public
markets and you should do that in the
public markets and be daily liquid.
There's a huge role for people like
Vanguard and huge role for 401ks and
people doing that. But if you want
alpha, you actually have to get alpha.
So whenever I hear people say, "Oh,
private equity is just small cap levered
or I never should have done private
equity. I should have just done S&P." I
always look at that and say, "Yeah,
that's great. your weather reporting now
that you've been able to look back and
tell me that the S&P's had its best run
ever. That's what you would have done.
Tell me what you're going to do for the
next 10 years. Tell me what's the new
S&P because it's easy to kind of look
back and say I should have just done X.
X changes. And so far, if you look at
it, I'll give you another stat. P's had
a terrible last two years. 25 shaping up
to be another terrible year versus the
public markets. Public markets have
zoomed ahead 20% 25% this year on pace
for 12 15%. Private markets haven't
marked. There haven't been a lot of
exits. They've been flat to down. So you
look at any the last couple years and
you say private markets lost its mojo
and it's a terrible place to be. If you
zoom out and say over any 10-year period
starting in the beginning of this
millennium and you roll back 10 years,
any of those 10-year periods, every one
of those 10 years, private equities
outperformed by three or four or 500
basis points. I'm not arrogant enough to
say it has to always be that way, but
I'm also not short- term to say it will
never be the way it's been for the last
20 years. So, when you ask about saying,
"Oh, can I just get private equity
returns in the public markets?" I think
no
>> I agree with you and I think something
you said a simple observation but an
important one is that equity risk premia
doesn't know if it's public or private
equity risk premia is equity risk premia
and you mentioned something structurally
about the private markets early which I
think hammers that point home unless I'm
the Norway sovereign wealth fund if I've
got exposure to the public equities I
own a stock I don't own a company my
ability to influence outcomes and get
board seats and get involved in
strategic plans and allow those
companies to take risks about what
they're going to say or not say on a
quarterly basis. Very very difficult to
do. But you can have a much more of a
strategic input in the private markets.
And I think that is a big big part of
the secret sauce. Bill, one comment I
would just make on private equity, a lot
of people comment that private equity
has the ili liquidity premium. I
actually like to think of it as more of
an activism premium in that when you're
in the public markets, you're trading,
thinking a lot about intrinsic value,
stock price. In private equity, the real
value is that you have control and that
you can change things actively with
inside of the company. And the
illquidity premium is something you
should get because it's illquid, but I
like to think of it as an active/control
premium. And I think that that control
premium dictates when that underlying
portfolio companies has reached its
maximum value. And I think there's an
expectation that if it was a 10-year
fund that every portfolio company is
going to reach its fruition inside of
those 10 years. And when you have
liquidity freezes, like Kane alluded to,
all bets are off. But it doesn't mean to
say those portfolio companies are
forever damaged. The liquidity window
might be very, very different. And these
stats bear themselves out not over one
year like 2022 over the long term.
>> I love that you said that an I have
heard so many people in the 25 years
I've been doing this saying the
illquidity premium and I literally think
almost every person has gotten it wrong.
That's why investors demand excess
return. They need to get compensated for
locking their money up. That's what
people call the illquidity premium.
That's completely wrong. The question is
why does private equity deliver that
excess return? Not why do the limited
partners demand it? That's so obvious
and simple because they're locking their
money up. But why has private equity
been able to deliver it? And one of the
reasons is an I think appropriately says
is it's that control that value add
ability that's what deliver. There's
other reasons people don't want to be in
the public markets. They don't want to
pay the cost of audit. They don't want
to have the short- termism of quarterly
reporting. They can invest for the long
term. You have industry expertise.
There's lots of other reasons, but
that's why private equity delivers it.
Everyone knows why investors demand it.
>> You talked about the various rappers
we're seeing. And I think that's some of
the flaws in these rappers when not only
is the underlying illquid, it demands a
longerterm commitment of your capital.
put aside if there's an illquidity
premium or not, but to take those types
of investments and allow it to leak out
through quarterly withdrawals. It's a
suboptimal wrapper. I don't know if
we're going to come up with a better
one, but I just don't think it's
perfect.
>> And Bill, one other thing I like to
remind people when they think of
interval funds, evergreen funds, is that
they are liquid until they're not. And
you're seeing this with a number of
funds in particular in the real estate
market right now. I think there was
actually another one announced this week
that wants to change to a closed end
fund because the underlying assets are
liquid and you promise the investors
that they're liquid but there's a
mismatch in liquidity and it's all works
fine when there's enough inflows and not
too many outflows but when everyone
wants to leave all of a sudden the fund
becomes illquid and all of a sudden
you're trapped. So for those new high
net worth or retail investors coming in,
hopefully they appreciate that there's a
bigger dynamic here at play than your
regular 40act daily traded fund.
>> And I look at where private equity is
and it's still a young industry and the
first GPS active in the space are
probably just 40 years ago and sounds
like a long time but probably in the
2000s where things really start to
accelerate. So I still think that we
have a lot of runway in front of us, but
I look at the secondary market as an
example, and that was probably a
distressed place to a large degree
coming into and coming out of the GFC,
much less so today. But if the secondary
space is 1 or 2% of the entire private
capital pool, it still needs to grow. I
think we need to have a larger, more
active secondary market. I think that's
a natural maturation part of where
private capital including private equity
is going. So I think it's going to be
interesting to see how that goes because
I think we've seen that investors even
the most sophisticated ones need greater
liquidity and sometimes it's not to pay
a benefit. It might be because they want
to get into the next vintage fund as
well and they're not getting the DPI to
do that. It's going to be interesting to
see how the secondary market develops as
well. I've kept both of you a reasonably
long time. I do want to finish though
and maybe stay with you on hedge funds
because I think in this news cycle we've
had a tendency to talk about hedge funds
less but when you have rates high and
maybe trending higher high relative to
where they were and then volatility
sleepy and not so sleepy at times maybe
some of your views on hedge funds I
don't know if this is part of tiff's
model but I know it's an area you've
spent some time in and I think this
could be an interesting space for
investors if they're thinking about
diversification
>> I think the question that you most
frequently get is do hedge funds still
make sense? And I think since the advent
of hedge funds, there's been waves of
interest retreat, certain subsectors
doing well and then not doing well and
so on. And I think many investors have
been disappointed by hedge fund
performance. In particular, even now
with rates being much higher, TIFF has
been successful in investing in hedge
funds. I think it's because we invest in
a very specific way that is not the same
as other investors in this space. I
would actually argue broadly that hedge
funds is actually a catch-all bucket for
a very wide range of strategies. I'd
actually argue that it's one of the most
complicated asset classes because it
isn't just one style of investing with a
couple flavors. It's actually many, many
distinct substrategies that are
dissimilar to each other and many of
them are actually very technically
complicated. Bill, you and I both know
having both taken the Kaya that learning
the calculation for theta and what
exactly that means and all of the
derivative type metrics, it's heady
stuff. I think when we look at the
market of what is it that has brought
disappointment to hedge fund investors,
it's really because investors are
approaching the asset class in the wrong
way and have incorrect performance
expectations. What we typically see is
that investors are usually on one end of
the spectrum in terms of hedge fund
investing. They're either incredibly
basically zero beta, so too defensive,
or the other end of the spectrum where
they're trying to match or exceed broad
equity markets, or given the complexity
of hedge funds, they're actually only
invested narrowly within their comfort
zone of spaces that they know and
understand. They're really approaching
the space in what we view as the wrong
way. They're too concentrated and one
fund. They're too concentrated in one
style. They're too concentrated in one
risk category. They have too much
leverage. And they just probably don't
appreciate the nuances of each strategy
and how to kind of put them together.
And I think for TIF, what we're trying
to do is really thread the needle on the
balance between having it be a
diversifier to equity. So we're not
trying to match equity performance but
be a diversifier but also provide good
risk adjusted returns. So high sharp
type return strategies and that is
really hard to do because it requires
you to get a lot of things right. It
requires you to get manager selection
right and as we were just mentioning
there's so many strategies you have to
get portfolio construction right. So
maintaining the appropriate beta which
as we all know with hedge fund moves
around with leverage and different
trades and then also most importantly is
risk management. Are you actually
maintaining an uncorrelated portfolio?
Are the crossorrelations between your
managers the same? It's challenging to
nail each leg of that stool. for TIFF,
we luckily feel as though we've been
successful doing that, but it's very
hard to do to both get returns and be
defensive at the same time.
>> And again, maybe coming out of the GFC
as an example, I think there's a lot of
disappointment with hedge funds. And how
can you be disappointed with something
that exists in name, but you're wrapping
so many different strategies underneath
it? The concept simply does not make
sense. And it's interesting that I think
we're repeating that same mistake when
we're banging the drum for access to
private equity. Not only is the
performance dispersion very wide and
managed to selection matters a lot, but
are we talking about the buyout space?
Are we talking about growth? Are we
talking about VC? Is it sector specific?
It is lower middle market. So I think as
many different managers there are that
many different strategies and that's
probably driving the dispersion to some
degree. But I think it gets back to some
of the observations you made and you can
pick hedge funds, you can pick private
equity, private debt, real estate. Due
diligence is so so critically important.
>> Yes. And I think that is the case in
private markets as we were just talking
about. It's also the case in hedge funds
in particular for going back to hedge
funds because we're just speaking about
them being able to do appropriate due
diligence on managers is critical and
it's challenging within this space
because there are so many subsectors.
That means you actually are doing many
different styles. You're looking at
different metrics. You really have to
understand and have a base deep
understanding of what they're actually
doing on the other side and what's just
the story versus what's real in terms of
their investment approach. Due diligence
is key. TIFF having been an investor in
this space for so long. We're fortunate
that we are known in the space and we
are a nice size in terms of our AUM
where we can be in a lot of those niche
managers. And we're also lucky because
we have our advisory board who they also
know a lot of different managers and are
also able to help us in terms of getting
that access of you can get access to the
best managers and then ensure through
your due diligence that you're picking
the right ones to go into your
portfolio.
>> Great observations and maybe a good
place to leave it. So a final
observation for me, it's great to see
what TIFF has done and I've known the
common fund model for many years. They
were a client way back when and Mark
Anson was on our board. And as I alluded
to in the conversations with both of
you, if I had another act and I think
I'm too old to have another one in my
career, but I think we need Tiffy, the
investment fund for you, for the
individual. If you can find a foundation
that's willing to fund that and they're
looking for an executive director and
age is not an issue, you can have them
ring me. But I appreciate you taking the
time today. I think our listeners will
take a lot away from this and look
forward to seeing you soon in the real
world.
>> Thank you, Bill. Thank you for including
us.
>> Thanks, Bill.
>> All right. All the best.
>> Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's cia.org.
See you next time.
