Aaron Philbeck here at Kai Association,
head of global content strategy uh for
the association and I am joined by
Elizabeth Burton, an investment
strategist at Goldman Sachs and one of
our board members uh for Kai
Association. So Elizabeth, really
excited to have this conversation with
you on what it means to become a CIO.
Thanks, Erin. I'm excited, too.
>> Awesome. Well, you you wrote this really
interesting paper um for Goldman talking
about uh your experience as a CIO
sitting in the asset owner seat uh
before coming to Goldman and some of the
things to look out for, which I thought
was just it was really interesting to
kind of go through maybe the more
qualitative elements of investment
leadership and the things you need to be
watching for as you get into that seat.
And I would love for you to just spend a
little bit of time talking through a
couple of of things. Maybe starting with
the that first 100 days concept. And um
one of the things that you mentioned was
that you don't always know the real
culture of an organization until you
actually get in the seat on day one.
Maybe you could just talk through that
concept a little bit and uh things that
you look for or strategies that any new
coming incoming CIO could take to
actually discover that real culture
before they actually sit in the seat on
day one.
>> Yeah, I think that's a a a great
question. Um look, I think a lot of
folks when they get a CIO role for the
first time, and this was sort of geared
towards that, but it could be multiple
times. We're I at least for myself I
came into it initially before I started
thinking like is there something wrong
that I need to change and I think that's
sort of the wrong attitude. Um most of
the time these organizations are pretty
wellrun and folks are pretty happy with
how they're being run. There are clearly
exceptions where there might need to be
some upgrades. Um but you know I was
young when I got the job. I was like 34
35 and I wanted to make my mark and I
wanted to stand out and I felt a lot of
pressure to like have some some genius
aspect to it. Thankfully what I did
before I started uh taking the CIO role
was I surveyed a lot of my peers and my
now peers at the time I didn't really
know a ton of CIOS other than the ones I
reported to and um so I took some time
asking them what should I be doing in my
first hundred some people call it 90day
plan. So a lot of these insights are
taken from and I didn't ask them if I
could say their names so I won't but the
CIOS of large public lands that you know
or that were in those roles and have
since retired. So it's a conglomeration
of a lot of those ideas. And I think the
most important thing that really saved
me before I went in was knowing that you
need to know the history of why
decisions were made in the past. The
history of the people on the staff and
around the staff. So not just the
investment folks, the other folks at the
organization in operations or benefits
or stakeholders like government or
governors etc. and figure out like what
they did and didn't like or why they
voted for something or not for something
because a lot of times if you just I've
noticed this since I left if you just
read the public minutes of of a fund
they have edited a lot out right because
they don't want get reporters calling
and asking well why did you say this? So
it's a sanitized version. You don't get
the full context. you don't get what the
feelings were in the meeting or or how
people were feeling or or the work that
was put into it. So, there's a lot of
preparation you have to do before you
get there. And it and it's the people
that you may not think about talking to.
So, on the public pension side, one you
should talk to is the consultants who
have served this organization before you
got there. Hey, can you tell me how the
board members feel about private equity?
Can you tell me how your first steps
into private credit went? um are is the
team happy with the lineup in public
equity. So you you got to start there
and then there's there's many others
that I sort of outlined in the report.
So, one of the things that I think ties
in with this and you've also talked
about in this um in this report is the
idea of emotional intelligence and
getting to know people which you know as
an investment professional and and an
industry that's focused on investment
professionals. we tend to prioritize the
technical expertise uh to a large degree
and can you manage a portfolio, can you
analyze a deal, can you underwrite um a
GP uh from all those uh different
angles, but we don't really get into the
the emotional intelligence, the
leadership aspect. So, what are some
things that you did earlier on in your
career when you were sitting in that uh
on the precipice of becoming a CIO
>> to try to develop that part of yourself
and advice for people who are trying to
do that for themselves as well? Sure. So
I think one thing that I realized before
I got there having uh before I took the
CIO role was that my previous
institutions sometimes people are in
roles um not necessary because they
applied for those roles but maybe that's
where they ended up or maybe they were
covering that because there was short
staff or maybe they wanted their foot
into the organization or maybe they
thought they wanted to cover one asset
class but now they're really gravitating
towards another. So one thing is it's
really important to find out are the
people happy in their current roles and
if they're not what are they looking for
and most importantly what you're trying
to figure out is what motivates them. So
I'll just take the public pension side I
think it's well fairly well known that
in public land in government you're
you're limited more than in some other
type of allocator roles on the
compensation part of it. So if the issue
is that well I want to make 20 million a
year you're not going to be able to
solve that for them. So what are the
other things that really motivate them?
So one example might be this person
might be covering private equity. Well
private equity takes a lot of time going
on the road and doing due diligence.
Maybe this person has young kids and
wants to stay home more often. So could
you reorient them into another role that
is more of a homebased? Do they have an
interest in risk management? that may be
something where you don't have to travel
as much. So, I don't always love when
people say, "Well, you pay play wide
receiver, so you can also play running
back." I think there are skills for
different jobs, but you can transition
people into learning other skill sets
and have coverage in the meantime. And
maybe they'll be much more interested in
those roles if they feel motivated for
that. There's other scenarios where
someone might feel like, well, I've been
an associate for five years. The VP is
junior. I really want to move into that
role, but like you know this is going to
take a long time. So you might want to
think about other leadership
opportunities. For example, um do you
have a tactical committee or risk
committee or um a birthday committee or
something? You know, hopefully it's
investment related to give them more of
a sense of ownership, but if it's not,
is there a community service committee?
Things that can give them more of a feel
of ownership and seniority to kind of
align them with their job. And then the
last thing I'll say is it's not just
finding the correct role, it's finding
out strengths and weaknesses. So
there are different skill sets and
different ages of skill sets and
organizations, right? So my husband and
I always joke like I'm a really big fan
of um Ray Lewis and the Baltimore
Ravens, but my husband's a Giants fan
and a very big fan of Lawrence Taylor.
And he always tells me, "You weren't
watching Lawrence Taylor when he was
playing and that's why you think all
these um why you like Ray Lewis and why
you think the linebackers are the
quality is different." He's like, "But
you've seen reruns. You've seen 30 for
30." He's like, "I was there. I know the
weather that day. I know what the
stadium felt like. I knew who was on
injured reserve." He That's true in
investing, too, right? So, I live
through the GFC, but I didn't live
through the com bubble. And there's
other sorts of market environments I
didn't work in either. So making sure
that you're getting the context from
multiple perspectives. People who were
actually there knew what it felt like.
And that doesn't have to be a time. It
could be volatility in one specific
asset class, right? Um so I think giving
people credit for what you may have
missed because it's impossible for
someone to be an expert in absolutely
everything, right?
So, I want to pivot a little bit to um
when you're actually in the seat and
you're starting to make some decisions
and there's always that I guess there's
that moment where you go in to an or new
organization in a leadership role and
you're doing the listening tour and
trying to understand again maybe some of
the things you talked about the
motivations uh the historical experience
how decisions were made and to your
point you're trying to make that mark as
well. So you're you're balancing the
collaboration versus decisive action and
kind of making your mark as a leader.
How do you balance the two of those
concepts? Because you want to be
listening to people, but you also want
to make sure that you're moving things
forward and not living in the past uh to
I guess to say uh the least. So how do
you balance those two?
>> Well, I think the first thing is to buy
some goodwill, right? Because before you
started, there were conversations h
being had behind your back. what they
hope this new person brings to the
organization. Like, man, I really hope
they fix our operations or I really hope
they cut down on the amount of legal we
spend or I hope this person really
pushes hard to add more infrastructure
to the portfolio. You have no idea what
those conversations are most likely. So
the first thing is you got to find out
like what are the pain points? What are
the bottlenecks? What are the sticking
points? What is it that that the team
wants and that they're not getting? Why
are they not getting it? And see if
there's any easy wins, right? Like see
if there's something that can be tweaked
at the margin that helps out in the
short run because what you want to do is
you want to build some credibility. And
I'm not you look you got to get the
context right. If if they want to buy,
you know, a risk management system, you
can't just go out and buy it. You got to
find out why. Oh, it cost $2 million.
That's why they didn't buy it. So, but
one, you want to find a way to to buy
some instant credibility and to fix some
of the sore points that maybe hadn't
happened in the past. One one easy way
to do that is when my first couple
weeks, I realized they had meeting
fatigue. There's too many meetings.
Okay, that's an easy fix. Let's cut down
on the number of meetings to find out
which ones we really need, right? Um, so
I think that that's one way. And then
in terms of the priorities you want to
accomplish,
I found that I had a set when I was
interviewing, but then when I got there
and really understood the organization,
I actually wasn't that far off from
their priorities. From the outside
looking in, it's it's easy to have some
judgment. But when you get in along the
history, you actually might find that
you're a lot closer. And so the way to
get to both priorities is is to
literally set up a glide path. Okay, in
the first three months, I'm going to
bring you the case for this. And then
we'll see how you feel. And then the
next 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, we're
going to build the case for this. Let's
see how you feel. But to be honest,
Erin, it probably takes months for you
really to survey enough people to know
if your ideas even really make sense.
>> Yeah. And uh I think that makes a lot of
sense. And one of the other things that
you talked about was the uh aside from
the people and maybe the processes and
stuff, it's also the portfolio to some
degree. So whether it's policies or
governance um documents, you know, you
you talked about kind of combing through
all of that to make sure that one you
understand the history that's there, but
two, like what do I need to change? So
as you've interacted with other CIOS and
even in your own seat, are there
particular blind spots that you found
that some CIOS have or things that maybe
you learned along the way as you were
making some of those initial changes at
the IPS or governance uh document uh
level? Again, I think a lot of it comes
back to history. So, obviously, you need
to read through the IPS and see what is
and isn't allowed, but I think there's
there's also maybe some things in the
IPS don't need to be there anymore,
right? So, maybe they're if you're
people are busy. Um, allocators are
really busy. They have a lot on their
plate. So maybe they were trying to get
around to streamlining the investment
policy or to removing an outdated uh
regulation, but they've bandated it so
much it's actually working just fine
sort of, but this is the time to go in
there and sort of reunder it. Do we need
a 40page policy on why we can or can't
invest in this? This leverage
restriction from the post GFC area, is
that still relevant here? Um, do we
Another good one. So sometimes they'll
say the number of reports they put out a
year or what these reports are the
cadence. Do you still need those reports
or are those creating extra work that
you have to do because they're in the
policy but they're actually not really
relevant anymore. So going through that
what's really important as I point out
in the 100 day plan is finding out the
file tree. So, I say biology and I
realize it's really dated because um we
we don't really operate off of of those
sort of things anymore and we certainly
don't print them out, but but knowing
where all the bodies are buried, for
lack of a better term. And having
someone help you find that before you
arrive on day one because you can spend
hours looking for files, that's a waste
of time. So, find someone who knows
where all these things are um and and
can help lead you in the right
direction. And you probably want to look
at past versions too um and find out
what sort of the evolution was. Now
again, some of that can be streamlined
by just talking to someone who's there.
Um and it may not be the most senior
person on your team. It may be a junior
person that's been there for 15, 16, 17
years and has more institutional memory.
Um and so you want to talk to those
folks as well. Um and at least on the
public vention side, you probably want
to involve some people in IT in
compliance.
um particular compliance or ethics to
find out like what is and is not
allowed. Um you probably want to find
out about who the important external
stakeholders are um and and go about it
that way.
>> So Elizabeth, maybe a final question for
you. You talked about uh building your
personal board of trustees uh as as you
kind of
>> get your peers and you're trying to kind
of formulate yourself uh as a as a
leader. uh what have been some of the
more valuable voices that you've added
to that quoteunquote board of trustees,
your personal board of trustees, and how
did you actually seek them out uh when
you did it?
>> Yeah. So, um a couple things. First of
all, when you do get that board, I would
highly recommend doing a blind survey of
them. Have someone create some something
for you. And and you don't want to know
who's responding and tell them what they
think your strengths and weaknesses are.
And it's not necessarily so much about
the weaknesses. It's actually about the
strengths. Um, I think we all want to be
known for something. Um, so an example
is that I I would like people to think I
was smart, right? I'm sure you want
people to think you are smart. When
these surveys came back from me, it was
like it said that, but it also said
she's wellconed or she has high energy.
And I was like, I don't want to be known
for being hyper and connected. Like
having friends and being hyper is not
necessarily what I want on my LinkedIn
profile. But what I realized is that's
actually that's valuable, right? It's
valuable for establishing connections.
It's valuable for getting um introduced
to interesting funds. It's valuable for
getting feedback um and for building
your network and helping find people who
have already done stuff to not create
recreate the wheel. And so one I would
suggest you find out what you're good at
because then you want to find out what
you're not good at and who you should
have on that board to help fill the
gaps, right? So
I grew up or I started my career I
should say in credit. So I learned
equity second. So a good example is I
pay more attention to the bond and
credit markets and I paid equity. So um
it was really useful for me to have some
mentors who had spent a lot of time on
the equity side. Um and then I was a
member of ISRP the institutional society
of risk professionals. it was important
for me to have someone who has spent a
lot of time in risk management at a
public fund because it it just wasn't
something that I had done prior to
Maryland actually. Um, and then there's
people that you don't people you do
agree with in in your financial
philosophy or your investment philosophy
and then there's people you don't agree
with. And you want to make sure that
there's some of both because again,
we're not always all right, but you want
to make sure these people are honest and
that they're going to give it to you
straight. um but that they fill in your
gaps and that they might be able to
connect you with someone else that that
can really help you. Um, so one of the
most important ones that I added, and I
again didn't ask his name, so I'm not
going to say who it is, but he was
someone that everyone on this call
probably know. He worked in public
pensions, was a CIO for a very long
time. And he would basically say like,
"Elizabeth, I know you want to do all
these five things. Here's like the
reasons you should really reconsider."
And I pushed back tremendously,
but he was like, "Give me give me like a
year to kind of think about this." And
he was right. So, you want to find
someone that you think, "Oh, I know how
to do this better. I'm young and fresh."
But like, you know, they've seen this
before in many different versions with
many different boards, with many
different stakeholders, and you need to
give them more credit than you think you
do.
>> Well, Elizabeth, I really appreciate uh
you sharing some additional insight, and
I thought the piece was fantastic. We'll
uh we'll link to it uh here in the
description, but uh thanks as always.
It's always fun uh sharing the stage
with you, whether it's in person or
virtual. So, thank you.
>> You as well. Thanks, Aaron.
