Welcome everyone here today, everyone
watching on the live stream around the
globe. We are so thrilled to have you
join us today for this most exciting
pitch session. This is an intricral
milestone as part of the Milk and Mut
prize program
launched in 2021. The Milk and Mut
innovation prize program is a series of
multi-million dollar innovation prizes
designed to accelerate technological
change, technological innovation to
address our urgent global challenges.
Today you will be hearing from our
semifinalists,
10 amazing companies who have made it
out of our community of over 12,000
entrepreneurs from 136 countries around
the world made it to this point.
The milk and prize in artificial
intelligence and manufacturing is the
fourth in the milk and mutepe innovation
prize program.
We are so excited today to be joined
with our program principles who have
made this whole program possible. I am
delighted to welcome to the stage Dr.
Precious Malloy Mepe and Michael Milin.
Please join us on stage.
Come on.
I like this [music] walk-on music, the
dance on music. Thank you so much for
joining us. We'll be hearing from them
in just a moment to ground you in what
you're going to be doing today. So, you
will be hearing from these 10 semi-
finalist teams as part of the AI and
manufacturing prize. This is a $2
million prize that was designed to
catalyze AI innovation across the
manufacturing value chain in Africa.
This prize was designed to highlight
innovations that deliver efficiency,
reduce waste, and support the workforce
of the future.
These 10 companies have proven
themselves to be strong future focused
innovators in Africa's burgeoning
manufacturing sector.
Essential throughout the prize process
is our rigorous judging panel and
process. Our judges have been hard at
work throughout the year evaluating and
scoring each of the companies throughout
all the milestones in this prize.
They're being evaluated for their
commercial viability, the depth of their
technological integration,
the quality of their operational
economics, the potential for market
scalability and workforce development.
The finalists have been evaluated from
all the data that they have submitted
throughout the round and this is the
final stage of the process for
semi-finalists. After today, at the end
of this session, we will be announcing
the five out of the 10 companies you'll
be hearing from today, we will be
announcing the five who will advance to
the finalist round. Those five will be
joining us on stage at our Milkin
Institute global conference in Los
Angeles in May 2026.
Today, we are joined by three of our
judges uh who I would like to welcome to
the stage at this point. We have Guy
Dietrich, senior vice president and
global innovation officer at Cisco.
We have Quellin Ellen,
global institute director and senior
partner at Mckenzian Company. And John
Kamara, founder and CEO of AI center of
excellence. Thank you so much for
joining us today.
We'd also like to thank our judges who
were not able to make it here today.
Christina Shim, chief sustainability
officer at IBM, Fran Katsudas, EVP at
Cisco, and Meg Whitman, former US
ambassador to Kenya, and the CEO of HP.
Okay, so now we're going to get to the
part that you're all here for. Each of
our 10 semi-finalists are going to have
90 seconds to present on their
innovation and their impact. We're going
to be strict in the timing so it can be
fair for all. The judges will have a
combined two minutes to ask questions to
each of our innovators
and we will after we hear five, we'll
hear from our principles. We'll hear
from the second five and then we will
announce the winners. So without further
ado, I'm very pleased to welcome to the
stage our first semi-finalist, Digitech
Oasis.
Every year manufacturers across the
world lose billions from inefficiency.
Warehouses lose 3,000 hours annually and
supply chains bleed a whopping $390
billion dollar in operational waste. For
context, that's enough to buy everyone
on the planet a fancy new smartphone and
still have change left over for a round
of lattes. At Digitech Oasis, we're
redefining industrial automation by
seamlessly integrating into existing
warehouse ecosystems. Our autonomous
robots navigate with a 97.7%
accuracy, operate with zero downtime
thanks to autocharging capabilities, and
cut energy cost by up to 57%.
We've transformed over 5,000 businesses
across 68 countries, saving clients 28
million in inefficiency, time on
repetitive tasks, and helping them scale
revenues by 250%.
the trusted partner for businesses
seeking operational excellence. Our big
hairy audacious goal is to be the
worldclass hub of AIdriven automation
products. So join us on the quest to
find out what we will automate next
because predicting the future isn't
magic, it's artificial intelligence. And
my name is Ayan Muhammad, the girl who
wrote lines of code in her bedroom in
Nairobi, Kenya, and dared to take it to
the world. Ladies and gentlemen, all
protocols observed. Thank you for your
time. Dr. Precious Mepe, Sir Michael
Milin, and the entire Milin Institute
team, thank you for creating this
amazing platform and for the incredible
opportunity. I would have led with that,
but 90 seconds is such a long time. So,
judges, [laughter] over to you.
So I'll start if that's okay. Um how
does your technology solution compare
with competitors like E80?
>> Sure. So happy to go back on this slide.
Uh [snorts] are we able to go back? No.
Okay. So we are eligible for 27
patients. Our uh algorithms have
actually been built inhouse and we have
three differentiating factors. One is
that we have the highest uh machine
learning algorithm and we've managed to
get that to a 97.7%.
That eliminates costly mispicks in
warehouses. Um unlike other solutions
that are on the market that require up
to eight hours of charge time, our
solutions possess a autocharging
capability, meaning there's zero
downtime and continuous operations in
the warehouse. And additionally to that,
we have a sustainability element that
helps cut energy costs in the warehouse.
So our solution it very much
differentiates from every other robotic
solution on the market.
>> Very good. Thank you.
>> Um
from an enterprise perspective because
you're integrating into existing
infrastructures.
>> Yes.
>> What has been the most difficult part of
your enterprise architecture from what
you have to you know the different
systems that you meet in different
>> Sure. So we integrate of course with the
WMS the warehouse management systems
etc. What we have experienced uh over
the years is there maybe challenges to
do with path planning but this has been
mitigated. Of course we have Google as
one of our biggest strategic partners.
We've managed to leverage their tech
team. We've also managed to of course
develop
[laughter]
our solution um to sort of mitigate the
the risk management in deployment. So we
have essentially mitigated that whole uh
challenge that we had in the first
instance but in the beginning it was
definitely path planning. Thank you so
much. Thank you. All right. Protect
Oasis.
>> From our second semi finalist team,
please welcome Bleley
>> Management Company. Africa generates
over 200 million tons of waste annually.
Less than 20% of this recycled. If you
visited any African measure city, you
obviously see lots and lots of heaps of
waste that are informally cropping up
from various cities unmanaged.
This uncycle waste is
over 200 22 billion market opportunity
that is untapped. So our solution is to
create opportunities for collecting,
recycling and marketing these
opportunities that are generally not on
generally not stopped. So far we've
processed over 230,000 tons of waste and
created over 500 jobs both formally and
informally.
In 2024, our income was $1.8 8 million
and currently we have 16 enterprise
clients.
Our processes which are end to end are
integrated with our AI system trained
with over 120,000
images.
70% of the model is proprietary.
We strive as much as possible for our
processes to be energy efficient. Not
only because it is great for the
environment but it is also a good cost
saving mechanism for us. Currently we
operate in Cameroon and Sagal and we
have a great team
that we work with. Our ask is $1 million
to be used to scale to new cities across
Africa. Thank you so much
>> judges.
>> Thank you. I'm interested in sort of
sorting accuracy and the outputs of
where you actually sell uh what's
recycled. Ouric accuracy at the moment
stands at 64%. Which means more waste is
diverted from landfields.
Currently we have
businessto business partners especially
government municipalities but we also
have households and we have enterprises
like uh Dan go in in in Sagal um
Coca-Cola in Cameroon and uh Uni Lever
and other enterprise that we work with.
But generally businessto business,
governments and enterprise and
households.
>> Um you said you uh build propriety
models. So are do you do you build
foundational propriety models or you
build secondary layer models for when
you say proprietary what does that
really mean?
>> Yes. Uh we have an IT expert, an AI
expert who is actually um a PhD in
machine learning and is uh ex Google
researcher who is in charge of our AI
developing model who really uh is at the
forefront of this
collecting and building a model for us
that we are really proud of which is 70%
proprietary.
Any
other final questions, the judge? All
right. Thank you so much.
Our third company we'll be welcoming to
the stage, Data Profit.
>> Uh, so I'm France. I'm the founder of
Data Profit. We are a company based down
in South Africa, Cape Town. And for 10
years, data profit has been committed to
improving the quality of the machines
that build the world. Um, on average,
when we deploy our AI solution, we
reduce uh production waste by 40%. When
we implement our solution at a foundry
in or just outside of Cape Town, we
managed to reduce their defects right
down to zero. This saved them 4,000 tons
of carbon dioxide uh emissions per year.
And further to that, they became the
best performing asset in their group,
attracting significant international
funding. Um, this animation that you see
in front of us is the internal thinking
of the proprietary AI algorithm that
we've developed. Um, it learns a world
model from our customers data and then
we interrogate it to produce
prescriptions that we feed back to the
plant operators. They then take action
upon that and we find that prescriptions
enable them to avoid defects ever
occurring in the first place. This is a
step change from predictive modeling.
Um in order to build good a good AI, you
need good data and we've built a
world-class IoT infrastructure system
that we've deployed across hundreds of
manufacturers and today collects about
half a billion data points every day. If
we're successful in deploying our AI
across all of those sites, we'll be able
to elimmit eliminate 100,000 tons of
carbon emissions every year. And that is
the mission. Thank you.
>> So, why would a customer buy from you
rather than Microsoft, SAP, or or maybe
a more direct competitor like a habber?
>> It's a great question. I think the the
key things that we have in our favor is
that we've built our system with
manufacturing in mind. Uh that means all
of our infrastructure is built to
facilitate all of the challenges that
manufacturers find like downtime in the
internet uh machines not sharing the
same time right and further to that when
we build and implement we're
implementing with the end in sight and
that end is that waste reduction right
and so we've got that view to carry them
right through across the line.
>> Very good. Thank you. when you say you
uh build world models. So I'm assuming
there's a lot of reinforcement learning
in that. But my question is is it a
simple self-learning or supervised
learning when you actually use the world
model in your propriety software?
>> I love the question. We could talk for
days on it, right? uh we actually used
an unsupervised model um because you've
got to be very efficient in the training
of the data and then we layer a level of
supervision upon it because your quality
data is typically a lot more sparse than
your production data and so kind of we
you know we're fundamentalists in the
algorithmic development um and we've
built it from the ground up specifically
to solve for the manufacturing problems
you know uh we don't have the whole
internet's data to train a model on
we've got to be very efficient in our
work
>> so you do drop offs in your training
processes
>> yeah so so in terms of dropout.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Um it's I mean a dropout is an
architectural decision. Sometimes we've
employed it, sometimes we don't.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. Our fourth company, please
welcome to the stage Fresh Pack
Technologies.
Come on.
What if the vegetables spoiled today
could have paid their school fees
tomorrow? In Africa, we lose 4 billion
USD every year of fresh produce. But but
not because we did not work hard, but
because the journey from farm to market
has no protection, no cooling, no
storage, no data. And who pay the price?
Women vendor who buy the fresh produce
hope to earning their living but end up
losing 40% of their income and that is
where exit fresh back start. My name is
Edit Shu. I'm the proud CEO of Freshback
Technology. We enabling we enabling
cooling without electricity by using
solar powered and smart fabric. But our
real secret source is a fresh view AI.
It monitor temperature, optimize the
route and send cell now it to the vendor
and its work. In just 18 months, we
already deploy 21,400
unit across four country and 74,800
tons of fresh for use. And the impact
has been fueling our rapid growth. We
are on the track of reaching 1.25
million USD by the end of 2025 and 1.8
by the end of 2026. With winning this
money will help us to scale to nine
country turning spoilage into
opportunity. We are not just to reduce
spoilage. We are creating an
intellectual infrastructure that Africa
needs. Thank you.
Thank you. Can you tell us from a
vendor's like a vendor in the markets
perspective what is the break even for
this refrigerated fresh pack?
>> What the break even for them? uh at
first they did not believe that this AI
will work for them because they did not
see the technology that understand the
vegetable the way they were. After we
test to the market they already saw that
the vegetable stay up to 10 extra days
and it send the SMS salad to them. They
started to ship from this AI to how can
I get these boxes. So for them they are
losing the money and by using our boxes
they reduce spoilage and recover the
money they were using. they are losing.
>> Can you tell us what is the price? How
much does it cost?
>> We have three product. Uh we have fresh
pack box which is we sell at 21 USD per
one boxes. We have solar powered
displayed box which we rent per month.
We get 10 10 USD and we have called
career. We charge per per trip from one
region to another which is 14 USD.
>> Thank you.
you're obviously filling a a real need
here. Um and and I I think it's very
creative. The question is beyond
capital, what do you need to be
successful?
>> Beyond capital, uh what we need uh as a
as a innovator when you studed the
solution, we don't have this knowledge
of entrepreneurship, the network, the
mentorship on how to guide us to to
scale our business by partner with the
Well done. [laughter]
>> Thank you.
>> That buzzer is very strict.
All right. Now, please welcome to the
stage Green BDG Africa.
[music]
Across Africa,
less than 5% of manufacturers are
reporting on ESG. ESG, environmental,
social governance. What this means is
that they're losing out on access to
global supply chains because they're not
positioned themselves well to compete.
So what we're doing in CrimeG, we're
changing that. We are helping them put
together collect the ESG reports in a
very quick time. What used to take them
months and sometimes years to collect
particularly in the manufacturing
context is now taking them seconds. What
they have to do upload their invoices,
upload the ESG data that they normally
collect on Excel sheets and then we
generate an ESG report in real time.
But we don't stop there. We provide
advanced analytics. We help them with
predictive analytics and then also most
importantly we help them plan for
savings
and what does it cost them? Nothing.
It's free to subscribe on our platform
Africa esg.ai
where we recoup our investment through
the shared savings. We employ a shed
savings model. That's where we get our
recoup. What's the next plan?
Integration. First phase is to do light
integration with IoT sensors, smart
metering companies around the globe and
then has to do extreme integration with
um telecoms companies. We already in
phase two actually so we're quite
excited about this. Thank you.
>> How long does it take you with a
customer to integrate and get up and
running?
>> How long is a piece of string? So that's
the time that that's the thing that
takes the time really is just to engage
the customers, sit with the teams,
really explain the value ad, but once
that's done, then the rest of the
process is pretty much seamless.
>> Has the 3.2 years payback period? Um, is
that been an obstacle
in you trying to get out and and expand?
Initially, initially it was, but now
we're finding that once we've actually
adjusted our model particularly around
the shed savings, then it actually
makes it easier to integrate into the
business offerings.
>> So is that 3.2 years been reduced?
>> It has been reduced significantly since
then.
>> Very good.
>> How much data do you collect and what do
you see as a the value of the data you
collect going forward?
As I mentioned earlier, the real I'll
start with the value first is is the
savings. So we that's why we say
subscribe on the platform. It's free.
It's not going to cost you anything.
What we guarantee you is the savings.
And up until now we have garnered about
100 megawatt of savings from the energy
um usage and a lot of it is largely set
on energy. Um 50% of ESG reporting is
largely made up of energy information.
What have you thought about the value of
the secondary data to you? That's what I
need.
>> Well, the value is is the fact that we
can collect the data and we can then
generate our, you know, our revenue from
from that.
>> Okay.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Thank you for our first five companies
that we heard from. Thank you judges.
I'm going to take a moment to hear from
one of the visionary founders of Milk
Mat Prize, Dr. Precious Malloy Modeppe,
CEO and co-founder of the Mepe
Foundation, CEO of African Fashion
International. Um, so many so many
things. Uh, we're so pleased that you're
here with us today.
Now that we've been doing this uh
program for four and a half years, just
wanted to hear from you a little bit
about what you think about the value of
milk and moppe prize uh program and
particularly for this one. This current
prize talks about workforce development
and job creation as part of its
criteria. Why is workforce development
important for community development
across Africa?
Well, thank you, Emily. And um I'm I'm
really excited to see the diverse um
group that we have this year. It's
really been amazing to see the growth uh
Mike, of this program. It's um it's
really incredible. Um I am also excited
to see the areas in which the various um
entrepreneurs are working. Um I I think
for us the biggest issue has always been
Africa has so many challenges and to see
how they have uh how they are
contributing towards the sustainable
development goals and the challenges
that uh face Africa. I'm talking about
uh food security. It's exciting to hear
that you're working in those areas. um
you know uh waste reduction and ensuring
sustainability issues on the continent
ESG. That's really really um exciting.
One of the of my responsibilities of
course is in as a chancellor of the
University of Cape Town in South Africa.
Um and and of course jobs for young
people are really really critical.
um as much as AI has been touted and has
done a lot in terms of um improvements
in productivity which every one of you
talks about uh so well and it's really
exciting to see where I see another
opportunity of course in job creation
especially for young people is um in the
skills that relate to to AI and the work
that you do. Um, I think Africa with its
youthful population can be a great
resource for the world in terms of young
people that are skilled in AI um and can
work on the continent and outside the um
Africa as that skill that we export
people who are savy in AI and um can
take on the jobs that come out of this
new technological era. Uh, and I'm
excited to see how our young
entrepreneurs are actually doing that.
So, thank you.
>> Well, thank you. We will hear from the
next five companies, then we will turn
to Michael Melin for additional
comments. So, thank you so much. We'll
continue with our pitches. Um, so our
next company was actually unfortunately
not able to join us in person. So, this
is Tola, but they have gone ahead and
created a video, pre-recorded a video
and uh answers to questions. So we'll
turn to that video now from Tola.
>> Hi, I'm Kis, founder and CEO of Tola. In
South Africa, your large manufacturing
plants are losing at minimum a quarter
million dollars or more per site per
anam due to energy demand penalties.
This despite all their efforts and
investment in increasing energy
efficiency and sustainability across
their sides. These factories continue
being the biggest stressors on our
fragile grid causing rolling blackouts,
grid instability and high operational
cost. And Tala is changing that. We have
built an AI energy intelligence platform
that coordinates with multiple
industrial bodies across industrial
clusters, making them allies of grid
stability. We do this via installing
some of our energy sensors and gateways
across multiple sites and through that
we are able to forecast when energy is
going to peak before it happens and are
able to do load shifting across multiple
sites. Beyond just load shifting, our
solution has been transformational in
providing realtime condition monitoring,
helping companies be able to get um
maintenance alerts before critical
issues happen on their critical
equipment. To has been transformational
on currently on the 25 sites that we are
operating in and as we scale, we are
definitely going to be the catalyst of
uh energy stability across industrial
zones in Africa. as the continent
increases their manufacturing capacity.
Thank you.
[applause]
>> What problem does your company solve and
what makes your approach fundamentally
different from competitors?
>> So the problem that our company is
solving is that we are doing um we are
helping the problem of peak demand
penalties that are affecting a lot of
your large manufacturing companies
increasing the high um price of their
energy. So we do this via doing
coordinated peak demand forecasting on
an hour to 24 hours time period when we
can be able to predict at an industrial
corridor when there are when buildings
coincident buildings are going to create
some coincident peak demand and are able
to orchestrate uh load shifting or load
shaving. We monitor some uh machines in
the buildings that are using excess
energy but are not critical machines and
are idling and we are able to
communicate with buildings to turn those
machines off. So that allows us to be
able to manage the stability of energy
across entire industrial corridors and
reduce the pressure that they put on our
fragile energy grid.
>> Great. And how do you plan to scale your
business? you know what levers,
technology, partnerships, capital are
you pulling currently to scale?
>> There's three ways that we are we are
increasing our scalability. The first
one um is partnerships with utility
companies and also insurance companies.
With utility companies is using our
platform and our data intelligence to
provide behind the meter intelligence
which is something that a lot of utility
companies especially on the African
continent do not have. They don't have
that granular uh data or insights that
allows them to be able to increase more
intelligence in load generation uh load
distribution and also pick demand uh
forecasting and scheduling. It's for
insurance companies uh they don't have
realtime insights uh on the performance
of industrial buildings that helps them
be able to manage their risk in
providing insurance uh uh premiums. So
we are able to provide those via provide
energy performance of buildings and also
some of the performance of the critical
machinery that influence um the
operational efficiency of those
buildings.
Thank you. [applause]
Okay, we are now going to our next live
semi finalist company. Please welcome to
the stage Indos garment IO.
Okay. So every morning 15 million
uh sorry 15 million workers step into
their factories discrete manufacturing
hoping for a better future basically
with limited tools to unlock such full
potential. a market worth of $320
billion with a silent leakage of
operational waste of about 50 billion
120,000
factories only capable of export
at Indos we believe that machines won't
replace workers but uplift them and
enable them actually with offering
productive based incentive and
development opened way for digital
adoption as well as unlocking business
potential and eventually business
competitiveness on the global side. We
believe our mission in Indos is about
alignment of interest between the worker
and the business.
[sighs] When in the beginning when we
factories operated with no strategy, no
tactics,
basically running around juggling
similar to a football team without a
coach.
So we built an AI platform to transform
such chaos into a guided datadriven
operations and decisions. We had to
start with a series of
uh steps in order to
Okay.
[applause]
Can you tell us how the economics work
in a given manufacturing?
>> Okay, so uh basically we are based on um
uh RFID uh based modules that tracks the
signals of the workers production and uh
workflow of products. So basically we
work in uh kind of a SAS model. So it's
a recurring subscription that actually
uh provides a a very attractive return
on investment and rapid deployment and
basically scale growth. So with 40
factories, three countries at the moment
is the installed base that we are
having.
>> What parameters does your RFID track to
actually create this efficiency that
you're talking about? Basically we have
card that is along that's attached to
the product and another card with the
worker. Our unique proposition here is
about capturing the time of the product
flow along with the worker action and
correlate that together through our AI
machine learning and help management to
take decision like line balancing
allocation of optimized workers on the
machines and also b uh effective
incentive systems. So that's how the
time is checked by that RFID card on our
smart devices.
>> I understand that this is related to the
garment industry, but is it also
potentially a platform software that can
be applied to multiple different
industries around?
>> We are currently in the furniture
industry as well. We are piloting with
the metal reforming.
>> Okay, we're getting into other
industries as well. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Okay, please welcome to the stage our
next company, Spiro.
>> Good afternoon. My name is Koshik
Burman. I'm the CEO of Spiro.
What started uh with a vision and a
deeper purpose that in Africa with 1.5
billion population, there's just 25
million gasoline bikes, expensive fossil
fuel imports. So Spiro's vision was can
we bring affordable motorbikes, electric
motorbikes that can provide convenience
to the commercial driver so that he
doesn't have to worry about range
anxiety. We innovated and brought
battery swapping technology in Africa
and we are the only vertically
integrated company in Africa with four
factories.
Products which are highquality
motorbikes are built in Africa. We are
building out the batteries in Africa and
the battery swap infrastructure. Thus
far, we have deployed over 70,000
electric motorbikes, saving two tons of
CO2 annually each bike. And every single
day, the driver who drives 100
kilometers or more is able to save $2 a
day, which catalyzes the economy because
affordable and cleaner mobility
leads to inclusion, deeper integration.
We have deployed AI across the value
chain but two key areas AI in
manufacturing where we have reduced
costs improved uptime and reduced
defects.
AI in energy network.
Thank you.
How does the Spiro uh EV bike compare to
competitors and specifically on the
battery where China and others are so
advanced?
>> So through our product innovation, we
have built this electric motorbike which
is 150 cc equivalent gasoline motorbike
but 40% cheaper.
And through batteries through the
battery swap network the consumer which
is the commercial driver basically needs
to just come swap in swap out and pays
an energy bill which is about 30%
cheaper than gasoline bike. We are
sourcing the cells from China but we've
built our own BMS and own hardware. So
we are producing and manufacturing the
batteries in Africa.
I think the the battery swapping model
is brilliant because you do address that
huge concern of how far people can go.
Um are you building out a charging
network as well? Is that a future plan?
>> The charging network, fast charging
network would be very relevant for other
form factors like three-wheelers and
cars and trucks. But my experiences from
Southeast Asia, India where I come from,
I see common pattern that for light
commercial vehicles, especially
motorbikes,
battery swap is the way to go because in
3 minutes, less than 3 minutes, he's
able to get a fully charged battery. We
have developed a battery network swap
network which is every 3 km. So there's
no range anxiety issue. Plus, we get a
lot of data which we are training
through our models to optimize the
energy flow. Okay. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
All right, we have two more semi-
finalist companies. Please welcome
TorchIt.
>> Go ahead.
So this last few seconds was unusual,
right? Think about this is a lifetime
for our users. Today world loses every
year a$2 trillion dollars by just not
including 1 billion persons with
disability. They are excluded from the
getting higher education, employability
and everyday participation.
This is not just a economical loss but
this is the loss of humanity and the
dignity
and the solutions available from the
west are not available and the not
affordable as 80% of the population are
coming from developing countries or the
low-income groups.
Today at torched we make innovative and
affordable AI powered assistary
solutions like AI readers which help a
print impaired or blind person to read
any document in any language or AI glass
help them to work independently in
anywhere with dignity or like AI
communication devices which help them
which gives a voice to them who cannot
speak and this is just starting we have
impacted a million lives and we our
mission is to impact 10 million ion
lives by 2030
which is not just create the
opportunities but also create the
billions in GDP we are doing with uh
local manufacturing inclusive education
and uh strategic partnerships so this is
not just for charity this is for in incl
uh economic inclusion have a colorful
day
>> yeah would you like to start sure
>> um so have you thought about um adaptive
learning as part of your skill
especially with you know you talked
about um learning through voice and your
own voice control algorithm so you can
create awareness concepts inside what
you're currently building.
>> Yeah. So uh again we have partnership
with Google and uh of course we are
training uh once a user sign up uh it
got trained uh through our application
and uh our app will recog recognize
their voice. So, so is it personalized
learning inside
>> personalized learning and personalized
data, personalized reading? We are doing
lot of LMS. We are transforming the
education system because if they get a
get a proper education, they can become
an employment.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you talk about how you generate
jobs?
>> Uh simple ma'am like uh if you talk
about blind they are depending on the
braille but after 10th there is no
braille because braille is super bulky,
super unaccessible after 10th.
AI audio is the game changer for
visually impaired and if they can get a
um inclusive education from the
childhood they can become a high and
today in India like we have impacted
almost 600,000 people and almost 20,000
people got indirectly job so this is
what uh it gives a dignity and
independence to them and this is how AI
changing their lives so for we AI for AI
artificial intelligence for
accessibility and the inclusion
Thank you.
>> Thank you.
All right. Our final semi- finalist
company we'll be hearing from today,
Toto Safi.
This changed Amina's life. Amina, a
hardworking tor and mother from Uganda,
faced an impossible choice to buy
diapers or a meal for her baby. No
parent should ever have to make that
choice. These reusable diapers reduce
the cost of diapering by up to 70%.
And Amina can now afford both. I am
Frank Kyuki, COO to Safi. We turn Africa
stealer cooperatives into smart
microactories producing worldclass
affordable reusable hygiene products. We
train them and equip them and bring
their products to market.
We use AI to connect production,
optimize cutting efficiency and reduce
fabric waste. The results 94% cutting
accuracy, 52% reduction in fabric waste
and 42% fewer defects. We have produced
and sold over 48,000 units, creating
1,600 local manufacturing jobs in four
countries. Taylor like Amina have
tripled their income. We are growing at
172% annually with 92% customer
retention rate. This prize will
accelerate us to 100,000 customers
creating 4,800 jobs. Toto Safi is
building locallyowned cottage factories
across Africa, one cooperative at a
time. at the milk and mo price will help
us scale this homegrown transformation.
Thank you.
>> How much do you sell the reusable
diapers for?
>> One usable diaper goes for around $6.9.
>> Is that your real voice?
>> I clear ideas.
>> Your real voice. Love it.
>> Thank you.
>> [laughter]
>> What is the uh what's the total
addressable market here? Um because I I
I assume you're concentrating in in uh
in continent itself, but the same
problem exists all over the world. So uh
what is the addressable market? Do you
believe
>> our eyesight right now is on Africa and
even though reusable diapers are the
main flagship product we're also looking
at pit trainy pants and period wear and
looking at this market segment alone
we're looking at $1.2 billion for the
African market.
Also, have you thought about um using
artificial intelligence to do advanced
fabric manufacturing or you can actually
combine different types of um materials
to create specific type of fabrics. It
could be a very interesting opportunity
for you.
>> Thank you very much John for that
question. Yes. uh we given where we are
we are realistic and have to tackle the
problem we able to deal with at the
point and for one of the fabrics that we
use is the P fabric and it can only come
from China for now but the rest parts
like 100% cotton we are getting locally
yes so that's what we're dealing with
now thank you very much
>> thank you
thank you to all of our semi- finalist
teams to our judges so that everyone
knows all of these extraordinary teams
have been carefully vetted. We've also
already uh awarded $50,000 to each of
these companies. They are all investment
ready. So although we are going to have
five that are advancing, I hope you've
enjoyed hearing from these 10 incredible
worldchanging companies who are so
innovative, we're grateful for the work
you do. We are so proud of each and
every one of you. So thank you so much
to our semi- finalists.
I'd like to turn now because I know our
chairman has to run. So I would like to
turn to our chairman and founder Mike
Milin. Um one of our principles along
with the MOPE family in starting the
Milk Mat prize. Um this prize also was
just named the number one innovation
prize across Africa with last two weeks
ago looking across 25 different
competitions. This was an independent uh
We were not expecting this and we were
really pleased to see that. So we're so
proud of the program. Thank you for your
vision in starting it and all the
wraparound services that the companies
get given the rise of AI uh Mike right
now. This this particular prize is on AI
and manufacturing. When you look at AI
and manufacturing globally, what
guidance would you offer to
entrepreneurs that are leveraging this
advanced technology?
How is that important for economic
growth across Africa?
>> The future of the world is so dependent
on opportunities in Africa.
Parts of the world are [clears throat]
going to lose hundreds of millions of
people and Africa is going to add
hundreds of millions of people in this
century. What are their jobs? Where are
those hundreds of millions of jobs
coming from? And I'd say Emily when I
looked many years ago we did a study
with the Gates Foundation and looked
that you grew grain in United States in
Iowa. You got it all the way to Africa.
It was delivered on a ship and the cost
to the village doubled.
Growing it, shipping it halfway around
the world. Getting it from the port to
the village cost twice as much. It's not
viable unless we can find these. AI is
going to change and disintermediate
every industry. We saw a diverse group
here today.
It's going to make Africa competitive
for products, not only products to sell
within [clears throat] the continent,
but products to sell around the world.
And so people think it's all about labor
cost, but I think what we saw today in
these 10 companies is you have to figure
out how to manufacture something. And
whether it's the cost of energy, the
cost of raw materials, etc.
Uh the what's so exciting about this
prize to me
is it isn't just the 10 finalists. It's
the thousands that have competed.
Uh and it isn't just the five winners
today or the winners. It's going to
introduce this with these cameras.
They're going to broadcast it to the
world
that [clears throat] anyone in the world
who sees these ideas might want to
support them. So it is so invigorating.
Many years ago, they always reminded me
there's more entrepreneurs
in Africa than the United States. And
this morning and this afternoon is a
great example of those entrepreneurs
that are going to change the world,
change the continent and change using
technology. A young girl writing code
can change the world uh from that
standpoint. So to me, it started like a
little pebble in the water that's
spreading and will continue to spread.
And that's why thousands of people have
attempted to compete. And even if they
don't win, doesn't mean they've stopped
going.
>> Thank you so much, Mike.
Yes. for our over 12,000 entrepreneurs
that we have as part of the milk and
what's prize community. We try to
continue to offer services and benefits.
So people please join us. You can go to
milk and what's prize.org. And for our
semi-finalists, our winners, I've
already told them you're in the family
now. So we are with you on your journey.
All right. So judges, have you conferred
and you have your final? Okay, thank you
so much. All right, the moment you have
all been waiting for. We are going to
announce the five companies that are now
going to be named finalists in the Milk
Moteppe Prize in AI and manufacturing.
Please welcome to the stage our
finalists. Number one, Blegley.
Two, Digitech Oasis.
Third, we have Fresh Pack Technologies.
Congratulations.
>> The fourth company, Spiro.
>> And fifth, Toto Safi.
>> Congratulations.
>> Congratulations to our finalists.
>> Congratulations.
>> Yes. A trophy. Yeah.
Each of these finalists will be
receiving an additional $30,000
joining us in Los Angeles to compete
[music] for the grand prize of $1
million.
Thank you so [music] much. We are so
proud of all of our finalists. I think
we have our last medal being Yes.
We get a photo of our finalist, please.
Thank you all so much for your energy,
your [music] innovations, for inspiring
the world with your bold ideas.
Thank you.
If you'd like to learn more about the
prize program, please [music] feel free
to connect with any of us after this
session.
To our finalists, we will see you in Los
Angeles.
Congratulations.
Congratulations. We look forward to
[music] seeing you in Los Angeles. Of
course you can.
Congratulations [music] to our finalists
for the Milk and Mod Prize in AI and
manufacturing.
