I'm Sean Climzac, Blackstone's global
head of infrastructure. And I'm Nadem
Me, global co-head of real estate at
Blackstone. Nadem and I are incredibly
excited to speak with you today about
data centers and power, the picks and
shovels of the AI revolution. As the
biggest owner of data centers and
utilities, we're really happy to be able
to share our perspectives here today.
So, here we go. We kind of all
acknowledge that there are trillions of
dollars of capital that are being
invested in data centers, in GPUs, in
power. And just open the Wall Street
Journal right now and there's going to
be at least two headlines about this
subject. And our hope today is to try to
clarify what's really happening, try to
separate a bit of the myth from the
reality, share our perspectives, but to
start by sharing some of our favorite
factoids about what's happening in AI.
And I'll go first. The cost of inference
today is 99% lower than it was only 2
years ago. And yet we're seeing 37 times
more data center absorption today than 5
years ago. What that tells you is that
even as these models and chips are
getting more efficient, demand is
growing even faster than those
efficiency gains. As the power and
infrastructure guy, uh, I love the next
stat that a 1 minute AI video can
require as much as 10,000 times more
power than a Google search. That's the
equivalent of charging your iPhone 119
times. And then just zooming out a
little bit more broadly, AI, the
electrification of vehicles and heating
and re-industrialization are driving an
expected 40% increase in US power demand
over the next decade. That's relative to
the last 25 years where power demand was
flat. So the next one I love as a real
estate investor. Uh 60% of all AI
funding today, venture funding is
happening in one city, San Francisco.
That makes us very bullish on San
Francisco's real estate market. We just
bought the Four Seasons in San Francisco
and we recommend that all of you stay
there when you next visit.
Good Blackstone ad. Um and then next for
me AI as we all know is not just a US
phenomena. This is a global phenomena
but the data center buildout globally
has been greatly lagging that of the US.
To put that in some context, Chicago,
the fifth largest data center market in
the US, has as many data centers today
as all of India. Uh we're all fairly
sure that a few years from now that will
not be the case. So what does it mean
for data centers? All those stats that
we just shared, I I want to start by
talking about demand. You know, a couple
years ago, the AI labs were generating
less than a billion dollars in total
revenues. Today the number is 30 billion
expected to double next year and yet as
you heard from others we're just at the
beginning um enterprise adoption is
still in its incipient uh sort of stages
5% of work hours today are aided by AI
from a consumer perspective you know we
all use chat GPT for research to ask
questions to draft emails we're going to
go to a world soon where AI agents will
help us with everything help us with uh
booking travel, with online shopping,
even driving our cars. And you know, one
factoid that I I love is that this year
Whimo surpassed Lyft in market share in
San Francisco and we think that's going
to happen in other markets here over
time. And then of course we had a great
panel on robotics. And one thing I can
tell you, I don't know which of those
founders wins, but robots will use a lot
of compute, more than any of the
existing applications. And that need for
compute will lead to needs for data
centers and power. Now in terms of data
centers, we are the largest owner as
Sean said in the world. We've done this
with the leadership and partnership of
our portfolio companies here in the room
QTS, Air Trunk, Lumina. And what you see
on the screen is that the hyperscalers
continue to accelerate their spend
projected to invest $2 trillion of capex
over the next uh 5 years in their
digital infrastructure. And on the right
what you see is the forecast for data
center demand. And each curve represents
a revision to the forecast. Today's
forecast is 60% higher than the forecast
from only a year ago. And when we talk
to our customers, we're seeing it. QTS
has seen a doubling of our leasing
pipeline just in the last quarter. Air
Trunk seeing similar trends. Our
customers are telling us that they're
constrained by compute. That is the
thing that is slowing them down.
Now, anytime something like this
happens, the question is, is there a
bubble forming? And of course, there's
always the risk of that uh in moments
like this, of excess in certain places,
of a misallocation of capital, as John
said yesterday. But by and large, what
we're seeing today is capex that is
rational in the context of the scale of
this opportunity.
To put some perspective and provide some
context around that, we thought it'd be
helpful to frame what's happening in AI
with what happened with the railroads in
the late 1800s with the dotcom boom in
the late 1990s. On the left, what you
see is that we were investing 4.4% of
GDP on average in railroads for decades.
and it peaked at 9% of GDP in the
highest capex year just in railroads.
Today in technology capex were spending
around 2% of GDP. On the right side of
the screen what you see is that in both
the railroad boom and the dotcom boom
companies were overextended. They were
investing two to four times revenues in
the form of capex. Today the
hyperscalers are investing 25% of
revenues in capex. Again there will be
exceptions. Some people uh might make
mistakes but by and large as we think
about where this is heading we think
capex is heading higher that the
technology is real and is going to have
massive applications that we haven't
even scratched the surface of and that
makes us constructive both in the US but
also around the world. And I'll pass it
to Sean to talk about the rest of the
world.
>> That's great. Thanks, Nadine. Well,
maybe what we can do is is zoom out for
a moment and just take a little bit more
of a global context. Let's take a look
at data centers in the US relative to
the rest of the world. As you'll see
from this page, there are roughly three
times as many data centers in the US as
are in either Europe or Asia today. uh
and importantly we in the US are
building more data centers this year
than exist in either Europe or in Asia.
So double clicking on Europe you'll see
65% fewer data centers 80% lower data
center buildout per capita than the US.
APAC is even further behind uh the US uh
roughly uh 70% fewer data centers and
95% fewer data centers per capita. So uh
a lot uh for the rest of the world to
catch up. Uh as you think about just
usage data centers in the US are about
about 60% of the data centers are being
used today for AI. In APAC and in Europe
it's only 10%. in APAC we yet to we've
yet to even build our first training
data center so very very early stage and
then one last uh final fact of the US
relative to the world uh the largest
data center in the US is roughly 10
times the size of the largest data
center anywhere else in the world so as
we take a look at uh uh the world as I
said before we don't expect AI to just
be a US phenomena we do expect uh Europe
to catch up and pretty soon power demand
more broadly. We expect uh just over the
next six years roughly a 28% increase in
US power demand. That will not be spread
like peanut butter across the country.
You'll have a place like Arizona with
60% power demand growth. You'll have
place like Northern Virginia with 85%
power demand growth. and a place like
northern Indiana, they just signed a
contract that more than doubled the
amount of power in that region uh with a
single contract. So, put very simply,
what we think is is that access to power
and the time to power will certainly be
shaping where you place your factories,
where we place our data centers. And
just to use a fact, Northern Virginia,
the time to power for a data center is
now up to seven years versus just one
year a handful of years ago. So uh power
will certainly be shaping the future.
Let's double click on data centers. Only
4% of US power today is being used by
data centers contrary to much of what
you see in the press. That is expected
to grow by 4x over the next 6 years uh
to about 14% but a majority of power
demand in the US is in fact actually
expected to include re-industrialization
and electrification. So, in terms of
re-industrialization,
$9 trillion of new factories announced
in the United States just in the past
handful of months. Put some of that into
context, a new semiconductor facility
represents uh roughly 100,000 homes
worth of power on electric vehicles.
Goldman Sachs estimates that by 2040,
roughly half of all new vehicles sold in
the United States will be EV EVs. Every
new EV that gets added to uh your house
adds about 37% incremental power. Then
we've got roughly 40% of our states in
the US that are actively trying to
encourage the shift from natural gas to
electric heating. Every house that flips
from natural gas to electric increases
power demand by about 50%. So, a number
of different factors, AI, the
electrification of vehicles and heating
and re-industrialization
driving that uh roughly 28% increase
over the next five or so years and 40
plus% demand growth over the next
decade. We believe that will require
about $2.4 trillion of capital uh in uh
in in the broader uh utility and power
sector. So, another spot that we're all
going to be uh focused upon. And so if I
just zoom out again and just say uh as
we take a look at how AI and re
re-industrialization will be affecting
our society, we do think that will uh
meaningfully impact uh where many of you
are thinking about placing your
factories and your people as we go
forward. So with that uh on behalf of
Nadem and myself, thank you for the
opportunity and we look forward to
continuing the discussion about two
topics that we're quite passionate
about. Thank you. Thank you.
