The push toward artificial general
intelligence is today's space race.
Except the implications are even more
profound.
Back in 1997 when I saw Gary Kasparov,
the world chess champion, lose to IBM's
Deep Blue, that was certainly an aha
moment for me. If computers have the
ability to beat the best chess player in
the world, what could computers do next?
I remember hearing about chat GPT on a
podcast. It must have been around 2022
and I downloaded it the same day and was
a little clunky in the beginning. But
think about everything that's changed or
happened since then over just, you know,
a 2 and 1/2 year period.
>> Often these new technologies take longer
to change our lives in the near term
than people expect, but in the long term
have a much more profound impact than
people expect. And we believe we are
investing behind the infrastructure of
the future. We see investing in data
centers as a generational investment
opportunity where we can partner with
many of the largest technology companies
to help them achieve their AI dreams.
When we acquired QTS data centers in
2021, our thesis was the world is
digitizing. It's moving online. You have
the cloud which continues to grow and
you have AI which is starting to take
hold. QTS is the fastest growing and
largest data center company in the
world. AI is so much more than just the
data center. It's the land it's built
on. It's the buildings it sits in. It's
the hardware, the infrastructure, the
chips that are inside the buildings.
It's the power that fuels them. And it's
ultimately about the infrastructure that
then gets it to our cell phones, our
computers, our iPads that lets us
consume it as individuals. If you
project this out three, five, 10 years
and you look at the global amount of
capital required to build this all out
and fuel the growth, you're looking at
trillions of dollars globally over a
very short period of time. Since our
investment in QTS, we've seen a
continued explosion in the usage of
data. Blackstone spends significant time
identifying mega trends and getting to
the flag first. Blackstone saw the
explosion in data and saw data centers
as a way to play the picks and shovels
of AI. We see this as a generational
investment opportunity. As more and more
capital is invested in the sector, we
see a very clear window for Blackstone
to be a leader in the sector. The scale
of each data center continues to
increase year after year. We're now
seeing where the next generation of data
centers can approximate 10 to 20 billion
a piece. Collectively, we see up to $2
trillion of capital needed for data
centers globally over just the next 5
years. And to build out of all of that
requires a lot of financing dollars and
that's where we step in.
>> Today AI helps us with coding, with
writing, you have chat bots, but we're
just at the beginning. You're going to
have AI help us discover new drugs,
medicines, early disease detection,
robots, driverless cars, all of these
rapid advancements. And it's so exciting
to even imagine all of the changes that
are coming. But we're just at the
beginning.
