My name is Nadim Megi. It's February
2024 and I was recently promoted to
global co-head of real estate at
Blackstone. We're doing part two. One
year later, one year on the job.
All I know is that if you give me an
hour, I can give you at least 3 to 4
minutes of good content.
Is this fun for you? Yeah. I mean, why
not? Let's do it. When I got to
Blackstone in 2008, the truth is I
thought I'd only be here for a couple
years. I thought I would get some work
experience. Maybe I'd go start my own
business, do something really
entrepreneurial. What I realized is that
Blackstone is that place. At the time,
John was running the real estate
business and I asked him for lunch. And
at lunch, I said, "Hey, John, you know,
I'd love to do more." And John said,
"You know what, Nadem, I've spent some
time with you. You're really talented.
run the entire regional mall investing
effort for Blackstone Real Estate. As
someone who had not that much experience
at the time, I was blown away by the
fact that one, John had lunch with me,
but two, he gave me this really enormous
at the time responsibility and he gave
me a platform to grow. Became co-head of
US acquisitions in 2015, ran the
Americas starting in 2017, and here I am
today co-running the global business.
I've known Kathleen since she joined
Blackstone, which was a year or two
after I joined. So, we've been working
together for more than a decade. She's
someone of high integrity, someone who I
deeply respect, and someone who I'm
really excited about partnering with in
this new role, and I'm frankly really
grateful that we get to do this
together.
This first year, I think one of the most
important things is that our team
focuses on looking forward, that we
focus on playing offense, that we don't
get caught up in the noise. We have a
lot of dry powder and a generational
investment opportunity in front of us.
And I'm excited to tackle that with this
team. Uh, I feel a lot
older. I mean, it's been it's been a
wild ride. It was a big year for our
business because I happened to step into
the global cohead seat right as values
were beginning to appreciate after two
years of declining. And so, um, in that
sense, it was good timing, but that also
meant that we were busy. We deployed $25
billion of equity capital in just one
year, which was actually one of our most
active years in history. And uh to step
in right at that moment was gratifying,
but it was also very busy, particularly
with all the travel around the world. I
would love to do a fun exercise. Okay.
Where we play back moments from the
first interview for you. Okay. So, this
morning I had a a workout session. Did
Legs Day, hardest day of the week, went
upstairs, played with my baby Maya,
who's 7 months old, took a shower,
blasted some music, and then got to the
office. One thing I just want to say,
I'm wearing the exact same suit in that
video as this one. Um, I probably need
some new suits. One observation, my life
has not changed that much in some ways.
Leg day is still the worst day. Still do
the morning workout routine. Still hang
out with my baby. I try to spend time
with my family in the morning and in the
evening and in between it is complete
chaos at work. One of the most exciting
things that happened over the last year
was our acquisition of Air Trunk data
centers, the largest data center
platform in Panasia. And with that
acquisition, we became the largest owner
and developer of data centers globally,
which is a big milestone and it's an
exciting one because we all know what's
happening with AI and how great that's
been for the data center space and we
have continued conviction in that. So a
few months ago there was a big
announcement deepseek and everyone was
asking questions what does this mean for
data center demand for compute needs
GPUs. We spent a lot of time studying it
and we came out of that analysis really
convinced that these advances will only
result in greater usage and application
of AI over time which we believe over
the medium-term will lead to even more
demand for data centers. One of the
things I'm most excited to do in this
first year is to spend more time around
the world with the global team. Seeing
one thing work in one place and then
asking yourself, can it work in another
so that the team can make even better
decisions investing. So a year ago, one
of the goals was to try to connect the
dots and spend time with the team around
the world. And I think I did that in
terms of travel, but also in terms of
sharing insights. We created a new
meeting called global office hours where
the senior leaders from around the real
estate business on the investing side
can review transactions even earlier. I
think I had 1,700 meetings last year. I
traveled to 26 cities outside of the US
and the goal was really to spend time
with the team to see real estate and
share the takeaways. That is part of the
culture of our firm and that's something
that I try to do as well. One of the
things I could have done better over the
last year is I think is to spend more
time in San Francisco. I did a trip
there recently and I met with a bunch of
startup founders, folks in AI. It is so
apparent how the impact is going to
reverberate across our entire economy.
And I think as an investor, better
understanding that is really critical.
That's something I plan to do more of in
the next 12 months. Starting 2 years
ago, my wife Sheffy got me into cycling.
she got pregnant and she stopped for a
while, but she introduced me to this
person who's amazing, her father, who's
also a cyclist. And so we go together on
Saturdays when the weather's nice. And
when I show up on Monday after a weekend
of cycling, I feel so much better, so
much clearer thinking. So that's my new
hobby. So I did a lot of cycling in the
last year. And one of the rides was from
Vale, Colorado to Aspen, and it was me,
my wife Sheffy, and my father-in-law. It
was a long ride and it was a hard ride.
I was trying to keep some gas in the
tank because it was important to me to
beef Sheffy. And as we were approaching
the peak, I put my heart and soul into
sprinting past her. I felt so proud of
myself. And then she looked at me and
she was like, "This is what you do. This
makes you happy." And I'm like, "Yes, it
really does." I think the the most
important thing for me to do is to make
sure that our people, our talent are
incredibly happy working for Blackstone
Real Estate and where we have a sense of
purpose and fulfillment being here. I
think if we can do that, then we will
accomplish our mission of delivering
amazing performance for our investors
and we're going to have fun doing it cuz
this is really hard work and it's got to
be fun. I still think it's really
important to have fun. It's a hard job.
You got to create an environment where
people are intellectually stimulated, an
environment that's collaborative, and
people want to be on a winning team. And
that means delivering performance for
our investors, making really good
decisions. And if you can create that, I
think it both allows us to attract and
to retain the best people. And it's
something that I'm really proud of in my
seat helping run this business. It's
funny, in this first year of overseeing
the global business with Kathleen, I'm
also fathered to a seven-month-old
daughter named Maya. And you know,
everyone I talk to that's had kids tells
me that it goes fast. And I want to make
sure that despite how busy I am, despite
how much there is to do, how excited I
am about this new job, that I'm there
for them. And I think ultimately that's
going to make me more effective at work.
I've learned over the last year how much
I love being a dad. It is the best thing
I've ever experienced. And it's really
cool cuz now Maya, my daughter, is
actually becoming a person and she's got
a personality. Being present with her,
even though I've got a really big job
and a really busy job, is so important
and so satisfying and I need to continue
to do a better job of that, I think. And
then finally, I'd say I've learned how
hard it is to do conference calls,
especially on Zoom, when you have a
toddler. Anytime I'm on the line, she
wants to like join the call, sit on my
lap trying to turn off my iPad. a bit of
a challenge, but I'm learning to
navigate. Well, let's talk about what
you're buying and what you might buy
more of. Do you have plans to buy more
offices? Office was an asset class that
we had actually underweighted before the
pandemic. As we've now emerged from that
moment, there are some tailwinds we're
beginning to see. It never gets easier
to go on TV. There's a lot of focus on
every word and we run a really large
business. People care about what
Blackstone says about what's happening
in real estate. And you got to be ready.
It's like studying for an exam for any
question that might come up about our
business. It's something that I'm
getting more comfortable with because
you do it more often. But it never gets
easier. You always got to prepare. I
think anyone at our firm that does it
will tell you the same thing. Couple fun
things happened this year. One of which
was I was speaking at a really big real
estate conference in Toronto. We had
2,000 people in the room, and it
mattered cuz I'm from Toronto. And I had
my parents in the audience who are both
in their 80s, who both don't totally
know what I do every day, but who were
both asked to stand up in front of 2,000
people, and I could see how embarrassed,
but proud they were in that moment, and
that was super gratifying. The other
crazy thing that happened last year, uh,
and it happens every year, is that I had
to participate in our holiday video,
which, um,
breaks and bonds, a new
portfolio. Let me show you the
alternatives.
Humiliating might be one word I'd use to
describe the experience.
The thing I'd tell Nadem a year ago
would just be to stay intellectually
curious because we're in a world that is
changing so fast. Think about politics,
think about technology and AI. And you
can't be a successful investor in any
field if you don't have the ability to
connect the dots globally and if you're
not ahead of how the world is changing.
And that's our job as investors. And
it's something I always remind myself of
because we can all get caught up in the
day-to-day. But you got to step back and
you got to try to be curious about the
world.
