Please welcome the panel on US economic
competitiveness in a changing world
moderated by Stephanie Flanders, head of
economics and government at Bloomberg.
[Music]
[Music]
comfy.
>> Well, welcome everybody.
>> I know
>> we have a pretty stellar lineup. You
know all the people. I'm not going to
waste the first 10 minutes doing uh
introductions, but clearly this is the
topic of the day. Uh
we have an administration that has set
out some very ambitious
economic goals.
>> Recasting, rebalancing global trading
relationships and alliances,
international alliances, shrinking the
federal government while extending
and building on tax cuts, controlling
immigration, deregulating finance,
including crypto.
whether and to what extent they're
successful in all of those or the
administration is successful in all of
those goals, we can be pretty confident
that they will leave a mark on the
economy. So I guess I have an obvious
opening question given the title uh
really to to all of you is is what kind
of US economy maybe not not next week,
next month, but what kind of US economy
emerges from this from these policies?
Will it be more or less competitive and
resilient than the US economy that
Donald Trump inherited at the start of
the year? Let me start with you and I'm
sort of asking for just a not a huge
speech but three topline thoughts um
from everyone and maybe a hint of
particular uncertainties or challenges
that you personally are looking at. Gary
Conn,
>> thanks. So look, we're going to come out
of this just fine. Go back and take a
reflection on the US economy and let me
see. We've lived through depressions.
We've lived through recessions. We've
lived through COVID. We've lived through
the financial crisis. And every time
when we thought it was really bad, it
got a lot better. If you if you go 10
years forward, 20 years forward, if you
have any duration of time, this is a
unbelievably resilient economy. The
United States, we're the reserve
currency of the world. We're going to
stay the reserve currency of the world.
We have huge capital here. We've got a a
great corporate system that wants to
invest in this country. I look, we all
have short-term concerns, but long term,
we should be really excited where we're
going with this country.
>> Mr. Speaker, Kevin McCarthy.
>> Um, look, they all talk economics. I
think you ought to get in the brains of
uh the president. He's different this
time than the last time. He he just
called me in texting with me yesterday.
Trump is a populist,
but there's two things
that are principled to him. Always have
been. Tariffs
and drugs cost too much. When he says
he's going to put a 10% tariff on, he'll
put a 10% tariff on. When he says it's
going to be 25 or higher, that's all
about negotiations. We are in the middle
of negotiations. He's also not a rigid
person that will not adapt. He's always
negotiating. So, it's always going to
seem if you take him exactly what he's
saying, you're going crazy. But what's
happening is at the end of the day, he's
not going to have the shelves empty. He
knows he's got about 60 days to do
something. I actually think we're going
to be a lot better off. And I would
point to one part of history. for the
same reason we opened the three
communicates with China when we were
dealing in a cold war.
This is going to be a reset in China
when we get an agreement with India and
Japan and the UK. It's going to be much
more positive for America. Is there
adjustment? Is there disruption? Yes.
But in the long run, it will make us
stronger.
>> Peter Ros,
>> uh let's see, three four really quick
points on resilience. I think we will be
more micro resilient and less macro
resilient by which I mean certain supply
chains in pharma etc will be more secure
but from a macro perspective in terms of
our ability to project power abroad and
our ability to sustain the fiscal
trajectory that we're on and so on I
think we will be more vulnerable.
Second, we will have marginally higher
manufacturing
uh activity and manufacturing
employment, but nothing like the 1950s
shares of either the economy or
employment. Uh third, I think we need to
be a bit careful about I saw uh Simon
Johnson in the hallway. The Nobel Prize
in Economics was awarded for uh the last
year for uh what drives long-term growth
and rule of law
uh inclusive rather than extractive uh
approaches to policym are all core to
long-term economic growth. And so we
just need to keep that in mind. And then
final point is despite all of the
discussion about tariffs uh as Nuriel
Rubini put it tech trumps tariffs if you
look out over the next three to five
years. So what is happening on the
digital payment stack? What is happening
on the AI race? What is happening on in
quantum? We may be hearing about some of
that from Ruth. That is going to turn
out to be more important than the next
two or three months. Ruth to tech trumps
tariffs.
>> Thank you for that setup. Uh so in fact
I I think that there is clearly another
important factor to answer your question
about resilience. And it really is about
this unique opportunity that we all have
this privilege living this time with AI.
And for historic context I actually
spoke to one of my colleagues Vince Surf
who if you Google him you will find that
he is one of the fathers of the
internet. And I asked him to put the
potential upside downside risk
opportunity with AI relative to the
internet. And he said he sees it as a
bigger opportunity because with agents
with generative AI it has the ability to
accentuate support human capability in
really profound ways. And so to answer
your question really directly we see
four upsides from AI. The first is e
economic upside. It could add$4 trillion
dollars to US GDP by 2030 if we
collectively public and private sector
actually address it holistically think
about the implications for our business
how to reach constituents customers
drive more revenue redo our internal
processes it's not a it's not a given
but it's there the second really
exciting building on Peter's point is
it's advancing science so my one of my
other colleagues Demisabas won the Nobel
Prize in the fall for Alphafold
predicting ing the protein structure for
all proteins known to humanity, 200
million of them. It is viewed as the
single biggest contribution to drug
discovery in our lifetime. And what that
can do to bend the curve on cost while
also solving major disease issues for
our country is extraordinary. We can do
a better job delivering education,
health care, cyber security. And so
really the answer to your question for
me comes back to this one visual that I
keep thinking of which is how we've
applied AI at Google. And over the last
20 years we've been working on Google
Translate. How many of you have actually
used Google Translate? Not as many as I
would have thought. So we now translate
in 250 languages. 20 years at it. In the
last year alone of that 250 we added
about 110 languages. So the visual I'd
want to leave you with to answer your
question is you chug along when you hit
AI you hit an inflection point. That's
the inflection point each one of us can
hit with our businesses or running
cities, states, the country if we apply
it. And that would be the answer to the
question, what are we going to look like
in 2030 and hopefully we do embrace it
robustly.
>> Governor,
>> well first of all I'm very optimistic
about where President Trump will lead
this economy. Uh and I do recognize that
when you're fundamentally resetting
trade trade relationships that are
unbalanced around the world uh and on
top of that bringing spending down
dramatically in Washington where we've
lost all semblance of fiscal discipline
uh there's a tough transition and that's
real. But the reality is that between
here and there, we're going to see trade
deals and trade deals with some of our
largest partners and we talked about
India and Europe uh and Canada and
Mexico and of course Korea and Japan and
there will be a deal with with China but
I think President Trump fully recognizes
that that China is an adversary and not
just a competitor. That's really
important. Second thing is I do expect
that we will see a budget deal out of
Congress and I'll be curious to see what
the speaker has to say about that. But I
we'll get a budget deal and that that
will be really important and so fast
forward and I think the ramifications of
that will be one a lot of investment in
the United States. We're seeing it in
Virginia. Our economic development
pipeline is as full as it's ever been
and a lot of it are international
companies who are want wanting to come
to the United States and we are busy
finding them a place to build. The
second thing that we are going to see is
we're going to see energy dominance and
the United States is going to find a way
to not only export our energy dominance,
but the cost of energy and power will
come down in the United States and we
will be incredibly competitive. And the
third thing that we're going to see as a
result of that is jobs and a lot of
jobs. And I think this is a fundamental
shift where all of a sudden we're going
to see a job market that's going to have
multiple pathways. pathways for students
who decide, well, I don't want to go to
college. I want to get a certificate. I
want to get a credential. And I'm going
to go work and have a really, really
good life and make a fair amount of
money, but I don't have to go borrow and
then default on student loans. And I
think this is going to be a fundamental
shift in the competitiveness of the
United States where we no longer are
dependent on supply chains from other
countries in some of these key areas
like pharmaceuticals and like
semiconductors and like our advanced
manufacturing. We're going to see it in
the United States or with trusted allies
who won't hold us hostage when things
don't go the way we want them to go. And
I think the United States as a result is
going to be more dynamic and more
competitive. There's a lot of of what I
as an economist I said microeconomic
interesting points there which I I want
to get to from everybody and I think
that you know the long-term
competitiveness is all is often all
about the micro but on this question of
the trade wars and particularly with
regard to China I'm interested governor
how if you were thinking about a sort of
a path to seriously re-industrializing
the US which is a big target of the
administration and seriously decoupling
as you said reducing our resilience in
these key areas. The OB one you would
think given where we are now you would
build up gradually and you would offer
certainty and in and people will be able
to plan on that path. It feels like the
administration started off doing the
opposite. So I'm just saying when you to
look at your state and how small
businesses and others are responding to
this.
>> Have we approached this the right way
even if you accept the goal? Well, first
of all, heavy transition or
transformation
isn't gradual. You've got to go. And
anybody who's run a business knows that
if you need to transform the
organization, you can't tippytoe your
way along the way. Otherwise, it'll
never happen because there's so much
resistance. And let me tell you, in the
world of government, there's a lot of
resistance. And so, you got to go. And
in this case, what we're seeing in
Virginia again is massive interest in
coming to the United States and building
and investing. We've had over a hundred
billion dollars of commitments from
companies to expand or build in
Virginia, which is more than the last
two administrations combined. You couple
that with the fact that business is
dynamic. You figure it out. And our
port, which is the most efficient
operating port in North America
recently, is one of our biggest assets.
But 20% of the volume comes from China.
And so we've watched the Chinese volume
come down. Well, guess what? We have
opened up trade lanes with many other
countries immediately. So business
figures this out and small businesses
are going to figure it out. We're
actually seeing supply arrangements
arrangements change and you're also
watching other countries step in and
there's lots of lots of supply chains
that are hard to move but they will move
and we will end up with a transformed
supply chain arrangement where we will
see trusted allies or in the United
States take the place of what has been
coming from China. And I think that's
what President Trump will negotiate. I
don't think that we're going to worry
about who makes t-shirts, but we are
going to worry about who makes the the
active pharmaceutical ingredients in
ingredients in our in our
pharmaceuticals. We're not going to
worry about low value ad, but we are
going to worry about who's making the
the design tools that have to show up in
every piece of advanced manufacturing.
Really important. We will have steel
smelters back in the United States
again. We're seeing one built in
Louisiana. So, this is what we'll see.
And it will take a little bit of time
and it will be a little bit of of
disruption along the way if not a lot in
some places but this will happen but you
have to get going because if you don't
it will never happen.
Gary Con, whether it's IBM or anywhere
else, can you do can you respond to this
changing incentives
and try and support the kind of
investments that the government the
administration wants to see when you
have zero clarity about what the tariff
rates are going to be and what the
future's going to be?
>> Look, I I think all of us who run big
companies, we have run big companies,
we're we have to think long term. Like
no one's thinking of like we're thinking
about the next 90 days because we have
to, but honestly we're making
investments for a generational cycle.
You know the everyone's talking about AI
today. AI a lot of the investment that
you're seeing in AI today didn't happen
the last two or three or four years.
Ruth brought up I maybe she didn't but
we'll we'll get to quantum. I mean the
amount of money that IBM and others are
putting into quantum today is just
extraordinary. Quantum will pay results
five year I'll say five years from now.
So we are making extraordinary
investments in this country in this
economy. The one place I'll caution
because I think we need to talk about
this to some extent tax policy drives
investment decisions in this country.
It's if you want to boil down to any one
major factor that drives decision making
in this country, it is tax policy. When
we changed our taxes in 2017,
we affected corporate policy more than
anything else that's happened in this
country in the last 30 or 40 years. When
we deemed repatriation of money back to
the United States, we forced a lot of
this money back. The when we changed the
corporate tax rate, we became
competitive with the OECD, we changed
the way people thought about
manufacturing and and building
businesses in the United States. When we
look at accelerated appreciation, when
we look at R&D credits, all of these
things matter and they will drive policy
more than anything else we're actually
talking about. Because at the end of the
day, when you're running big companies,
you're a fiduciary for shareholders.
trying to maximize the the return over a
long period of time and taxes will drive
a lot of those decisions. So like one of
the most important things that has to
happen this year is we have to at a
minimum extend the Trump tax cuts the
jobs. So so that to me is a minimum. If
we can put something additional in
there, great. If we can bring back we
have bringing back the R&D credits,
bringing back the accelerated
depreciation, those will have more
impacts than anything else we're
actually talking about here.
>> Yeah.
>> Peter, do you agree with that?
>> No. Um
>> I thought you'd say
>> Gary won't be I look I think there's a
large empirical literature on this
question and taxes matter but it's not
even close to the most important factor.
A lot of things go into the future cash
flows and expectations of future cash
flows uh part of which is taxes but
there are lots of other pieces uh that
are arguably more important. And on that
point, I do think we need to also
highlight that a lot of the benefits
that we are we have experienced
historically in the United States comes
from being the world leader in
technology in particular. That is where
a disproportionate share of the
productivity growth has occurred. That
is where to the extent there are any
differences with Europe, that is where
uh the differences have shown up most
prominently. And you we need to be um
cognizant of that because there is some
risk that we will disrupt the apple
cart. Um I completely understand and
empathize with the perspective that our
leading universities went far offkilter
and how they handled the aftermath of
October 7th in particular. But I think
slashing the NIH budget, slashing
funding to the leading universities of
the United States risks exactly what
we're already seeing, which is Europeans
and others are saying, "Come here,
we will invest in science. We don't want
that." So that is just as important, if
not more important than tax policy, but
obviously everything matters.
>> Ruth,
do you agree? Do you agree with that?
There's so much in that. I Yes, I do
agree that one of the most important
elements is to have a pro-investment,
pro- innovation,
>> but also pro- research
>> and pro research. The p the p the
reality is my father was a physicist at
the Stanford linear accelerator center
when I was growing up. He built the atom
smasher, helped design the atom smasher.
In those days, the public sector really
was funding all of research. what we now
have is the private sector is funding
the the leadership position we have in
science whether it's in AI or I
completely agree with Gary quantum and
economic strength is national security
strength and I completely agree with
Peter that that's driven by tech
strength 80% of economic growth in our
country for the last 80 years is
attributable to technology and I think
we need to make sure that we continue to
have the right conditions for investing
in this country so that we can maintain
our lead and it's not just about
economic strength than the US. When I
travel the globe, what I hear from every
out of state, we want to be a part of
the digital transformation. We will be a
part of the digital transformation. We'd
like to do it with us or one of the
other US-leading companies, but if
you're not here, if you're not in if
you're not in this position, if you have
limitations and can't engage with us,
there's another alternative. And that
means that we're seeding an entire
ecosystem and all of the growth that
comes from that to China. So I think
it's imperative that we have the right
investment framework for this country to
support private sector and the right
global engagement.
>> Mr. Speaker, there was actually there's
a question on this and we since we've
got on to um AI and technology. Um what
outcomes were you hoping for from the
chips act and was it successful in
revitalizing US microchip manufacturing?
That's George's posit and also wondering
what the next act like that would be. I
think I mean you you were speaker when
the bipartisan chips act was passed um
there's been sort of different signals
around it but as far as you're concerned
was it successful in doing what it was
supposed to do?
>> Not completely. No. I mean the company
government invested in the most I don't
know is going to make it all the way.
Um,
AI is going to do one thing for America.
Is going to get our energy policy right
because we'll never capture AI without
getting energy policy right. It'll do
more than any climate change has ever
done to our energy policy.
Getting chips made in America is going
to be an agreement with government and
Taiwan. Taiwan is never going to give
the full FOBs here unless they get an
agreement that they're going to get some
type of support. And that's actually
happening now. So I believe there is
enough capital out there. It's more a
government view that in the Senate if
they just throw money at chips, I think
there's a lot of capital in the free
market to give money for chips. I don't
think government needed to make that
investment. Um your earlier question to
the governor was correct.
This isn't normal.
I I tell my friends in Congress, China
has a Congress, too. No one knows who
they are. All the power has usurped to
the White House. Trump has one term.
You can tell him, "Oh, if you went
really smooth, you none of that's going
to matter to him." He's got one term to
get something done. He has his 10,000
hours that he knows how to do the job.
He picked the cabinet that he wants that
will follow what he wants to do. He
does. He feels last time he got told no
at the different parts. He has to be a
disrupture. You had to come in with Elon
because you raised the baseline in '08.
You raised it again after COVID. There
is no way members of Congress are going
to sit there, oh, let's systematically
do that. There is no way members of
Congress going to sit there and say,
"Oh, let's make this trade agreement and
this trade agreement." You have to knock
things off the shelf. And to be
respectful, I believe investment is
important, but under the Republicans, we
we increased NIH. But I don't think any
of these colleges have been audited. Did
you really think taxpayer money should
give Harvard $9 billion? What are they
doing with it? I actually believe coming
after them will make every single
college to start auditing what are we
doing with this money and it will drive
more towards research and development
than prior. Yeah,
>> 100% agree, by the way, that we're going
to find that waste
is so overwhelmingly big that we can cut
waste and actually put more lead on
target. And that's going to be just the
big aha surprise through all of this.
When it comes to Medicaid, the fraud,
waste, and abuse in Medicaid is
somewhere between 15 and 30% of the
overall Medicaid spending. when it comes
to research at the university systems,
universities that have, you know, 160 or
165% indirect cost uh uh overhead
weights can get it done for a lot less.
Um this is what we're forcing and this
is what we're seeing today in America is
the bright light and the exact same
thing happens when organizations go
sideways. You've got to reset them and
you've got to do it quickly and then we
will see a period of real growth. And I
think that is why I started with why I'm
optimistic. Um I think that we will in
fact lead the world in AI development
because we will lead the world in
investing in the best way possible
because private sector will in fact draw
in capital to the best ideas and I
totally agree. We will crack the energy
code. We will be the first we'll be the
first time that small modular reactors
are absolutely the base load power along
with some big ones. But we will be we
will become the nation that will be far
better known as reliable, affordable,
and by definition increasingly clean
because nuclear will be a much bigger
part of everything we do. By the way, we
have to engage with gas power. We have
to engage with everything because we've
got a massive power deficit in this
country. And I think the aspiration to
be energy dominant is not just an
aspiration but we can be and must be so
that we can have power in order to drive
this next evolution of innovation in
America and the world and I fully expect
us to do that. I
>> mean governor I think I think you're
doing your fair bit. You've got your
your data storage capital of the of the
world at this point.
>> We are. Well, um, listen, I'm I'm going
to sell a little bit on Virginia because
I'm the governor of Virginia and that's
my that's part of my job. I just gave
you just Stephanie just set me up. I
mean, um, Ruth, in case you hadn't
heard, um,
>> we're there. We're there.
>> Virginia is the largest data center
market in the world by a factor of four.
And it is that ecosystem which draws in
more investment because people want to
be part of it. Um, we've got all the
supply chains for servers and racks and
cooling systems. We've got an a very pro
data center regulatory framework. And by
the way, we are really cracking the code
on power. And and I launched two years
ago our all-American all of the above
power plan. And I said, "Hey, we're
going to be the first ones to have a
small modular reactor that's
commercially deployed." Now, I like
competition. And so we're working with
other states to see who can get there
first. But we're going to do everything
we can to get there because I think if
Virginia wins this, then we can in fact
not just lead from a commercial
standpoint, but we can crack a national
security need in this country as well.
And so that's why I am so passionate
about the fact that we have to crack the
code here. And there's plenty of money.
I mean, there's trillions of dollars in
the system to do this. And yes, there
will be uh some government assistance
that's asked for, but the vast majority
of the capital is going to come from the
private sector because the private
sector is replacing the federal
government in driving R&D, in driving
capacity expansion, and most importantly
pulling forward timelines on the
timeline of business as opposed to
government.
>> I was I was blowing your horn so that
you wouldn't have to, but I completely
failed on that sort of
Ruth. I know you wanted to get in on
energy and then we'll come back to the
speaker. I very much agree that to
unlock the opportunity with AI, we have
to unlock the power to deliver it. And
we actually published a paper on this
just last week because there has been a
broad body of work and it's great to
hear what's being said on this panel. We
need to come together and land some of
the solutions. We put a re a set of
recommendations 15 recommendations
pulled out of the work that's been done
over many years that has the most
broad-based support and it falls into
three areas. Number one to the
governor's point is we have to unlock
more innovation in advanced energy
solutions in particular nuclear. China
has 30 gawatts of nuclear already in in
construction. They have 200 gawatts
right behind that. The US isn't doing
anything and this is the foundation that
will let them continue to unlock the
upside from AI and there's a lot that
can be done that has been close to the
finish line but stuck on the one yard
line. The second is around the grid.
something that the governor's already
spoken about. As a nation, we have
underinvested in the grid. The
Department of Energy last year said that
we have the ability to unlock a 100red
gigawatts of capacity in the grid just
by optimizing and upgrading the grid.
And so, again, as an example, running
new lines to towers, you can double
capacity at 25% of the cost. There's a
host of things we can do. we with PJM
the the grid that uh that the governor
was talking about of applied AI to the
ability to simulate optimize what what's
happening in that very important grid
with a company called Tapestry a host of
solutions there and the final area
building again on the governor's
comments this leads to jobs there is a
shortage of electrical workers in our
country and we need job training for
electrical workers historically Google's
done a lot of work on digital skills
training We obviously don't know how to
train electrical workers, but we do know
how to design programs. So, we partnered
up with best-in-class for electrical
training content. We're doing a small
bit. It's not the solution for the
country. But we hope that it points the
way to others joining in. We have to
unlock this because if we don't, and we
continue to see the the speed with which
China's engaging, it's the foundation.
We're all going to sit here and say,
"How did that happen?" Well, we can see
it. They've all articulated pieces of
it. So I look forward to seeing the
progress there.
>> Mr. Speaker, I know he wants to come in.
>> I I think the most bipartisan thing
that's going to happen is permitting
reform. We almost had it during the debt
center. We did NEARE reform for first
time in 40 years because it doesn't
matter where you sit on the energy
spectrum. If you're if you're just for
renewable, you nobody can build. We have
so much backlog. And this is where if
you get frustrated with Trump, this is
the part you'll love about him. There's
enough backlog in FK that you could
double the grid right now. He will
change anybody appointed on there.
That's the fundament. And then the other
thing people don't measure, I I firmly
believe in the tax bill and it will get
done, but it won't get done perfectly on
the timeline that Congress says right
now, but it's too much pain that they
not do it. Um,
but Trump will cut regulation. He did
last time even faster than Reagan. That
combination will help energy more and AI
will drive energy to do it more than
anything else.
>> Peter, you wanted to
>> Yeah. Uh look, I think there is a very
positive agenda here that has to do with
expanding the supply not only of energy
where honestly the myth of the
immaculate transition has dominated for
too long and I'm glad we are I am glad
we are past that uh in housing which
admittedly is mostly local but is a huge
impediment to the upward mobility of
many families. By the way, people have
not realized, but the mobility rates in
the United States have been declining
over the past two to three decades. And
you know, part of that is the lock in
effects and the and the difficulty of of
uh finding housing in wherever you want
to move to. This is a problem that needs
to be addressed. And you can go down uh
the list of expanding supply as a I mean
Ezra Klein and Derek Thompson just wrote
a book called abundance which is
fundamentally about let's stop
subsidizing demand and let's really
focus on expanding supply. That is an
agenda that you know I'm 100% behind.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. I just wanted to wanted shift a
little bit of that follows on from that.
If you have a supply side approach to
the economy, one of the things that
investors and others were very were
excited about um in looking at this
incoming administration was around
deregulation
and that whole agenda. Um but we also
saw in the previous administration quite
an aggressive approach to corporate
power which actually was also associated
with an analysis of what was reducing
labor mobility non-compete clauses. you
know that corporate concentration was
itself impeding um economic
competitiveness. So I just wonder how
would you judge where the administration
is on that and whether it's right to
kind of be more relaxed about corporate
concentration if that's if that's the
case.
>> The frustration I've had in past
administrations if one administration
did something the other one has to be
opposed to it. um which I didn't think
good would
>> set when it comes to China. Maybe
>> China has united everybody.
>> I created the select committee on China
and I got the idea standing next to
Nancy Pelosi at the 75th anniversary of
Normandy
looking at those grades and wondering
what could the policy makers have done
that that day never would have happened.
It wouldn't be 10 years wouldn't be a
year from now. It' be 10 years from now.
How many of you ever read Destined for
War by Graham Allison? The city is
trapped. So 16 times in world history,
the number two has surpassed the number
one. Right? Only four times they didn't
go to war. So I sat with Hakee, the
Democratic leader. I said, "I want to
treat you the way I wanted to be
treated, okay? And I'm going to tell you
every single person I'm going to appoint
to the select committee on China. And I
before I tell my own members and we did
it together and this isn't about
preparing for war. We've become too
dependent. This is about making sure we
don't go to war and pure dependency."
And it's the most bipartisan committee.
And when the president of Taiwan came to
see me, I held the meeting at the Reagan
Library simply for the symbolism of
defeating communists without going to
war. And when we sat and had a press
conference together with the Berlin wall
behind us, Andrea Mitchell gave the
first question and she said, "I cried
and I was with Reagan. when we said tear
down this wall and I feel just emotional
as today that you are so united without
politics being and I think it's been one
of the most positive things and
dependency just like they control 90% of
the critical minerals but 95% of the
processing and that really comes down to
Congress are they going to allow us if
we have our own resources to be able to
do that and I think this is a place this
is where the Tik Tok ban came from this
is going to be a very positive situation
>> what happened to that
>> um But I did actually distract you from
Carrick Co. Do you want or do you want
to take on the the antitrust uh
question?
>> No, look,
I I am always troubled by this topic to
some degree because look, we clearly
want our companies to play within the
rules. We don't want anyone to have an
unfair advantage. So that's that's a
given. On the flip side, you know, we
sit here and we talk about we have to
compete against China, which we do, and
we have to win the battle. China's
trying to build the largest companies in
the world to take over the world. We're
trying to break up the larger companies
that are successful in the United
States. I think we've got to decide
which side of this equation we want to
come out on. I think we want to be able
to compete globally. And if some of our
companies are really successful and
happen to be very large, it's okay. It's
probably good for us in this country.
and they probably bring home a lot of
tax revenue and they probably employ a
lot of people as long as they're not
prohibiting other people from competing
in the space. I don't think we as
Americans should have problems with it.
We should actually be very prideful in
the fact that we can build these
companies from nothing. And the
companies we're talking about, and I
know we're smiling, a lot of these
companies didn't exist 30 years ago, 40
years, 50 years ago, none of them
existed. So, you think about the
creativity, and this is why I started
out being so bullish on this economy.
You think of the creativity and the
entrepreneurial spirit that exists in
this country. We've built some of the
largest companies in the last 20 years.
Let's allow them to continue to thrive
as long as they're playing within the
within the laws. That's why we have laws
in this country.
>> So, the biggest uh divergence uh that
the biggest bad crowd had was because
it's easy to kind of just say it's
across the board. It's really quite
specifically with regard to vertical
integration. So that is a firm that is
buying something that's a supplier or a
a distributor as opposed to merging
horizontally. And there I think honestly
there was a lot of rhetoric often
without a lot of evidence. And you're
going to find I believe the new
administration to be that's where the
differences will be the most significant
is a little bit of backing off from the
um all vertical integration is is bad.
And let me just highlight one area where
this tension is paramount. I saw Dr. Oz
uh uh yesterday. He's here. Uh I believe
that CMS under Dr. Oz will push very
hard on value based care and healthcare,
which is fantastic. We should pay for
value and not for quantity. Um, but as
you do that, you're creating incentives
for insurance companies and providers to
act as one because that's the that's
effectively what most of the incentive
under value based care does. And we have
evidence we're here in California,
Kaiser Permanente is a good example of
fully vertically integrated uh health
care players that perform better than
others. So if you go after vertical
integration but you also want value-
based health care which by the way the
administration the prior administration
was saying simultaneously you have
massive cognitive dissonance one arm of
the government saying don't do this and
the other arm saying do it. I think that
will be better going forward.
>> Ruth you obviously you're sitting in a
place that has not necessarily received
the benefit of this change in approach
to antitrust. Um
do you is there a consistent message
coming from the administration? Do do
you understand where it its approach to
competition?
>> Now
it is gratifying to hear that this is
the golden era of innovation because we
believe that it is the golden era of
innovation and we think the opportunity
for this country is extraordinary for
all the reasons we've discussed on this
panel today. We think the DOJ approach
and thesis, as we've said repeatedly, is
flawed and we will appeal. Uh,
as Gary said, AI didn't just happen.
We've been investing aggressively,
meaningfully for well over a decade.
Quantum, we are set helping to set up
the country to have an important victory
with quantum as is IBM and others. It's
going to be critical for the future of
biology, material science. me. In fact,
it's it's incredible asset. Google
actually wasn't the first search engine.
For those who remember, we were the
eighth search engine. I remember when
all of a sudden Google pops up, I'm
wondering why do we need an eighth
search engine from inception. It was
about creating a radically better
experience for users. And that's been
the guiding principle. And when we sit
here today, we've publicly said we're
investing $75 billion in capex in 2025.
That doesn't even include the R&D
investments. We can't do that. We don't
expect we would be able to do that if
the DOJ recommendation is followed. And
so what does that mean? How do you how
do you sync that with golden era of
innovation? No, I I can't understand it.
But what we're doing is we're telling
the legal team, you go deal with that
because we don't think it makes sense.
We will continue. We're telling all the
engineers, do what you do and do well.
Focus on users solutions. continuing to
deliver for everyone in the communities
in which we operate in the United States
and around the globe and when we will
see where this ends up going hopefully
the right direction. Okay. Um I'm going
to change the subject but I did mention
at the start I mean one of the things
that economists had been quote unquote
concerned about um given how much it had
been part of the growth model in the
last few years was uh the much tougher
stance towards immigration of this
administration. Now obviously the focus
has been illegal administration im
immigration and uh companies don't tend
to kind of stand up for the right to
have loads of illegal immigrants working
for them. But Governor Ynan, do you just
worry, you may be in the slightly the
wrong part of the country, but do you
worry about the sort of short-term
impact on employers of a sort of
chilling effect on immigration and
immigrants? Well, we first have to start
with the reality that there was an
invasion and we ended up with just an
uncountable number of illegal immigrants
who were violent criminals. And that is
the first step and we've got to deal
with it. And that's why I was uh so
pleased to be able to partner with the
Trump administration
and go to work. And so we signed an
agreement, a memorandum with Homeland
Security and the FBI, uh, the DEA, and
we went to work with state police. And
we have had eight weeks straight of
targeted effort in order to arrest
really violent criminals who are here
illegally. And we are now cresting over
750 arrests.
Terrorists gang members and and so we've
got to go here because again they are
living among us and what they have
introduced in our community is real.
>> They've been proven in court to be
terrorists and criminals. What they've
been proven
>> they've been actually had any kind of
>> what they've been pro what they've been
proven is that is one they have uh real
proof that they are involved in illegal
activity
that involves either drug trafficking,
human trafficking, membership of of MS13
or trenda and in fact are tied to
violent activity in communities. That's
where we start. And in fact, this is a
normal uh law enforcement practice,
folks, which is you arrest someone and
then all of a sudden you can unpick
their connectivity to the entire
distribution system and slowly undo it.
And we have to do this. And it is
predominantly run by people who are here
illegally, shouldn't be here, and they
are engaged in violent crime. we must do
this. And so that's where this has to
start. And I have to say that the the
anecdotes are one thing because they're
real, but the heart of the matter is the
vast number of violent criminals who are
here illegally that need to be arrested
and need to be dealt with. on on all of
on those cases and the ones we've seen
the last few month there's obviously
been lots of reporting about how how
strong the evidence in some of those but
I actually I really want to get past
that and just to a sort of core of what
has been a source of economic strength
for the US over the last few years which
is to be a very opening
uh environment for legal immigration
>> for foreign citizens no but if we have
people who are now being we have foreign
if if foreign students who are studying
here maybe contributing potentially to
entrepreneurship ship and inventions in
the US and down the road are being
intimidated. If people are worried about
I mean we will know people here who have
been told actually if you don't need to
come to the US don't come or just take a
burner phone. I mean all of this is I'm
sure exaggerated but just about the sort
of atmosphere that it creates for a
country that's trying to attract foreign
talent. I mean Peter do you do you worry
about that? I'm not it's not about these
specific cases. There is there is not a
shortage of extraordinary talent that
wants to come to the United States and
there they are lining up to come into
the United States and study at our
universities and engage in in discovery
and be part of the tech system and to
engage in not just the advancement of
business but also all that comes with
it. And that is legal immigration and we
need it.
I agree that we need to have uh secure
borders and I agree that you know no one
no one can or should be in favor of
illegal immigration. So let me just say
that however uh even if the burner phone
phenomenon is anecdotal
anecdotes can become uh the you know the
telephone game and and affect our
ability to attract top talent. The
number of foreign CEOs with whom I've
spoken who say that they are going to be
bringing a burner phone to the US is
much higher than it should be. So I very
much hope that whatever is causing that
changes because that is not good for our
economy.
>> Mr. speaker, do you think do you just
worry about the again the just the tone
of of of what's happened over the last
few months and the poss maybe the
overreach by some people in individual
bits of uh homeland security which then
contributes to these stories?
>> Look, I I think the greatest strength of
America is not our aircraft car. It's
the idea of America. Okay.
But President Trump got elected on two
main factors, the border and the
economy. And I think 80% of America
believes the border was out of control.
So just like everything else, you have
to actually make this statement to stop
the illegal from coming. We were the
most generous nation in the world more
than a million people ago. Now you're
going to get a gold card. So you're
going to get a whole another set. I
think this is a small part. Um I think
it'll make people rethink. I'm more
concerned the relationship with Canada
and Mexico because I believe that's a
great deal of strength and I think that
has to be we have an agreement with
them. We need to work through it because
if you can't work with your neighbors
that you have an agreement with it's
hard to make agreements with other
people. Okay.
>> Um Gary K I want to go back to we we
started right at the beginning you
mentioned about debt and also about the
importance of making the tax cuts
permanent. Um, you know, that is one of
the things that if you again just doing
a sort of classic economic health check
of the US, you'd say that's the kind of
scariest bit of scariest chart is what
happens to debt under any reasonable
assumptions. So, do you see a path
given the relatively modest gains of
Doge, given the kind of uh cuts that are
on the table uh in Congress, do you see
a path to meaningfully flattening US the
US debt trajectory?
>> There's always a path.
Do we want to take the path? We're going
to have no choice. I think we're going
to have to get to the point where we
take the path. So,
If you look at what Doge is trying to do
in like waste, fraud, and abuse, as as
the governor said, as the speaker said,
there's waste, fraud, and abuse
everywhere, it's hard to go in and find
those pieces. I actually think we'd be
better off to take a step back and
figure out what can we actually
eliminate. It's a lot more cost
effective to start eliminating things.
So, I'll go back to my former former
former life. You know, when you look at
the banking sector in the United States,
I think we have 8 to 11 regulators in
the banking sector in the United States.
If you look at the UK, you look at Hong
Kong, you look at Japan, you look at
Singapore, you'd say all they they have
pretty good markets, pretty good banking
system. They have a maximum of three
regulators in each of those countries.
They don't have an SEC, they don't have
a CFTC, they don't have an OC. I could
keep naming names of things they don't
have. They have a they have a credential
regulator and a market and a central
bank and they have a regulator that
protects the public. We could do that
really efficiently in this country and
we could cut out real real spending long
term. Now look, it will take my friend
over here and his his his colleagues in
the capital to get rid of a bunch of
these agencies, but these agencies in
many respects I think have probably
outlived their needs, outlived their
services. So, if we're gonna get serious
about taking money out and keeping it
out, because the Doge money, I hate to
say it, in the next administration could
come back in, the way to keep it out,
take it out, is to remove part of the
organization that actually doesn't need
to be there today.
>> Well, I guess you only find out if you
needed it once you get rid of it. But
Peter,
>> look, if if I told all of you that there
was a country running 7% of GDP
deficits, as far as I can see, that the
debt to GDP of that country was 100%.
That the political system was deeply
polarized,
that the country was arguably alienating
a third of its investor class.
um and that that country was also
toying with the idea of whether the
central bank should remain fully
independent or not. That would not be a
combination of factors that would be
confidence inspiring. So I agree with
Gary. We've got I think this is in my
opinion now there was a decade and I I
will say even I as a former CBO director
and a former budget director sort of had
just tuned out all the chicken little
kind of the sky is falling fiscal stuff
because all of the dire predictions were
not happening and it kind of got a
little tiresome to keep hearing them.
But uh if you compare where we are now
to where we were a decade ago it's a lot
different. The deficit's twice as high.
interest rates are dramatically higher.
Um, I am particularly pleased that
Secretary Bassant this morning has
cleaned up the question of whether the
administration is doubting whether being
the reserve currency is a benefit or
not. I think there were statements from
other administration officials which
were not helpful. That is a very
dangerous thing to be doing given the
combination of facts that I had. So,
this is I think it's time to worry again
about this trajectory and I do hope that
we get serious about what we're going to
do because you don't want to be in a
situation where uh it gets away from you
and I think the risks that it gets away
from us are higher now than it was over
the past decade.
>> Mr. Speaker, as Gary said, it's all down
to your colleagues.
>> Well, then I'd be really worried.
structure dictates behavior. There is
not one person who gets elected that
they're going to go in and cut. It
doesn't show up on any poll. Now, we had
this exact same problem in 1990 with the
with the um collapse of the Soviet
Union. And there's not one member of
Congress who's going to raise their hand
that we have spent the last 40 years
developing a military to fight the
Soviet Union that's going to raise their
hand and said, "Close my base." So, they
know the structure wouldn't work. So,
what did they do? They created Brack
base realignment and closure. So every
leader got to appoint a point to it. If
they came up with a plan, this is all
they were promised. They'd get a floor a
vote on the floor in the House and no
amendments. You know what happened? It
would pass and it would be bipartisan
because then you're boxed in. I actually
made this offer to Biden during the debt
ceiling. I said, "Let's do it and let's
vote after the election." You got the
tax bill and you got some provision in
Obamacare coming due. So technically in
the tax bill, if you took some revenue,
you're not raising taxes because they're
all going up automatically. You're
actually decreasing them. In Obamacare,
some of them are going to go provisions
were leaving. So if you reform that from
a Democrat, you weren't destroying
Obamacare. And if you did it after the
election, you got a little lame duck.
The greatest strength any politician has
is the first day they're elected and it
goes down each day till the next
election. Then it goes back up. So, and
if you did it together, no one would
lose their job over it. Now, you can
eliminate things in government that's
not going to do anything for you. The
drivers today are the government
programs. And if you do nothing,
>> eight years and nine years, they'll
automatically be doubledigit cuts to
them and few options.
It's the greatest threat we have.
>> Okay, but help me out here because when
you look at the the only serious cut in
a non-discretionary program that's on
the table that is actually gaining some
momentum in Congress is on Medicaid, but
the president has has said multiple
times he doesn't want to see cuts to
Medicaid. Without that number, without
that cut, it's very hard to see how you
start to pay for the tax cuts. So, I'm
just wonder how do you given your
history, your experience, how do you
think that's going to be resolved?
>> Okay. my experience in the debt ceiling.
I cut$2 trillion dollars and I lost my
job over it. Even in this
reconciliation, they're not coming
anywhere near that. And it's a
Republican White House, a Republican
Senate and Republican House. So that's
why I say I don't put my trust in them
getting it's going to become such a big
problem that no longer anybody can
ignore it. But you have to change the
structure otherwise the members will
just the minority will fight who's ever
in the majority. take it out of the
argument and bring it back in one vote
and that's the way you'll have to get it
done. But you have to be able to change
eligibility.
Look at the FM map. When we created
Medicaid, you had to be pregnant or
disabled and we'd pay we'd pay 50%.
We still do that only 50%. But if you go
on Obamacare, federal government pays
you 90%.
And why wouldn't these governors sign
everybody up of 200% of poverty? Well,
you'll go broke during that.
>> Ruth, you're kind of you're luckily for
you, you don't have to think about US
federal debt that much. But I just
wonder
>> the kind of you know the the conclusion
from this is yeah, it's very unlike
we're pretty unlikely to put it on a
sustainable path over the next few
years. And also there's just a
fundamental problem that everyone agrees
on that is not being resolved by the
political process. So does that if
you're thinking about it just as the
leader of a major global corporation
does does that how much does that
undermine US authority in the world if
there isn't clarity on that an ability
to resolve that
>> I thought you were going to take it a
different direction and I'm going to
answer your question but the first part
of it is
I'm a typical tech optimist I believe we
are Google and we're continuing to
invest in the country because we believe
in it. We believe that the problems are
solvable. We've had I think one of the
things that I'm very focused on is what
are the what are the reasons that we see
this polarization in the United States
has become so dysfunctional and are
there ways that technology in
communities that legitimately have been
left behind and are saying well what
about this for me where we can say with
technology whether it's the application
of health care so you can get early
diagnosis and you can have your child
taken care of the right way or in
education or in infrastructure
What are things we can do where people
can say actually government is working
for me? I will give you an example. In
New York State, there was um that we
were brought in because there was an
18-month queue on service delivery and
with AI and working with our cloud team,
we were able to compress it to a couple
of weeks. Well, if governance not
working for you, you're going to see the
kind of frustration and this inability
to get anything done. So, I'm hopeful
that actually we're doing some work with
the governor that we'll be able to land
some things that actually show that we
can make progress and hopefully it's not
quite as bad as he's saying in terms of
landing a reasonable budget. We're
counting on you. In terms of the rest of
the world, I am concerned because as I
said, the conversations are we believe
in in we believe in the upside from
technology, but China is not far behind.
You know, at this point, the US is in
the lead on chips. We're in the lead on
frontier models. And we've been saying
for quite some time that the gap is
narrowing. And I think with DeepSync and
with Huawei's Ascend chip and what we're
seeing with their operating system,
Harmony OS, what you're seeing with data
points like number of graduates in
computer science or publications or the
rankings of universities, the gap is
narrowing. And I think there's still
very clearly a desire to work with US
companies and the values that we
represent. And we just can't take that
for granted. And I think there does
become a tipping point where it becomes
challenging. I don't think we're
anywhere near that. But having had the
privilege of working with Hank Pollson
during the financial crisis, he said,
you know, there's you have to have a
will and the means. And too often by the
time you have the will to do the right
thing, you no longer have the means. We
need to be ahead of this. And I think
right now getting the everything landed
as quickly as possible, as effectively
as possible so that we can move on is um
is is an investment in the future for
our our children. Can
>> I add one thing?
>> Yeah.
>> So about to ask you a question.
>> Yeah. The one thing we haven't talked
about is growth. And at the end of the
day, growth matters. And we need a lot
more people working in five years and 10
years than we have today.
>> Yeah. And just to lay out a couple
numbers, we have 7 million jobs in the
United States that sit empty. They're
available. People can take them and
they're empty. And if you take today men
and women between the ages of 16 and 65,
the numbers of them that are sitting on
the sidelines who otherwise could be
working and if the just the percentage
of them was working today that we had
back in the year 2000, it's another 5 a
half million people working. I mean this
is the key and this is why candidly you
can take this to a stateby-state basis
and see the difference. Remember state
most states have balanced budgets. We
don't get to run big deficits. So how do
you create space? You either grow
or you shrink and cut or shrink and tax.
And that is the truth. And so in
Virginia, Virginia was stagnant. And we
came in and absolutely energized it.
We've had record job growth. We've had
record investment. And by the way, we've
had 9 billion dollars of tax relief and
record budgets. And we're getting ready
to run our fourth straight surplus. The
key to this is growth. And so you've got
to turn on real growth. And that means
we've got to get jobs. That's
investment. That's new kinds of jobs.
That's pathway for people to get there.
And then we have to get people off the
sidelines and to work. America today has
a 63% labor participation. 63%.
Everybody talks about unemployment. This
is the more important number.
>> The more important number is how many
eligible working adults are actually in
the labor force. And that number used to
be 65, 66, 67. And when you begin to
think about what one, two, and three
percentage points means from number of
people have a job, paying taxes, and oh,
by the way, having purpose and dignity
in life, it changes everything. And so,
yes, we have to reign in spending. Yes,
we have to. But we also have to get
growth. And that's why I'm optimistic
because I do believe the investments
that are coming into America to
re-establish
manufacturing and not again low-level
manufacturing but high value added
manufacturing and the tech leadership
that we will absolutely have and
everything that comes with it will be a
job creating engine that we haven't seen
in a long time.
>> Well, that's the kind of grassroots
enthusiasm and optimism from the states
that we might as well end on. Thank you
very much.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
[Applause]
[Music]
