Well, good morning everyone and welcome
to the Texas MBA's uh educational
webinar series for 2024 and 2025. It's
uh part of the education and endowment
committee led this year by co-chairs
Anna Barton and Steven Bertrand. I'm
Scott Holtz uh with Mortgage Capital
Trading or MCT and a member of this
committee. And today we're hosting a
realtor roundtable discussion, Texas
regional
insights on real estate trends, NAR
commission rules and best practices.
This webinar should take about an hour,
but feel free to ask questions anytime
using the chat window and hopefully
we'll have some time at the end for
further Q&A or you can send any
follow-up questions uh by email to Carol
at the address on the
slide. Uh before we begin, I'd like to
remind you of our uh upcoming in-person
events. Our 109th annual convention
happens on April 27th through the 29th
at the Lowe's Arlington Hotel in uh
Arlington, Texas. So, we'd love to see
you in Arlington. Uh today, serving as
our moderator for the panel uh is my
friend Tom Couture. Tom is the mortgage
director and a mortgage loan officer for
Texas Tech Credit Union in Levik. Uh go
Red Raiders. Uh Tom, thanks so much. And
um if you could take it from here and
introduce the rest of the panel, that
would be great. Yeah, you bet. Thank you
so much, Scott. Uh yeah, we have a great
panel of realtors today, and I'm going
to introduce them to you uh one at a
time here. First, we have Joe Atkins.
He's the the dude in the car right
there. Um and a a little bit about Joe,
he's got transactions that he's closed
over $135 million.
He continues to leave his mark on the
real estate
industry. A consistent recipient of
numerous top producing awards, Atkins
prides himself on being one of the most
knowledgeable, techsavvy, and
well-letworked brokers in the city,
which is Dallas, by the way. In addition
to managing his thriving brokerage,
which is called Joe Atkins Realy, he's a
board member for the Dallas Builders
Association. He's served as director for
the local, state, and national
association of realtors, and he's
involved with various organizations
focused on mentoring youth. Isn't that a
great um cause? Then we have Carly
Riley. Carly's from Austin, Texas. And
for Carly, real estate is not about me
numbers. It's about life. Buying,
selling, or investing property is a
considerable investment. And Carly takes
her role as an adviser during these
major life moments to heart. A native
Texan, Carly grew up in Dallas. She
attended the University of Texas, I'll
forgive her for that, I promise, at
Austin before transferring to the
University of Idaho, where she earned
her BS degree in sociology and criminal
justice. After almost 10 years of living
in Idaho and Washington, she returned to
Texas in 2006 to be near family. Karly's
a broker associate and a realtor with
Compass in Austin, Texas with
designations as CNE, SFR, SRS,
resp. And if all of you people know what
that means, that's great. She's very
well uh designated here. And she's been
a platinum top 50 Austin award winner
and finalist every year since 2013.
Thank you for being here both both of
you. Then we have Shellyley Ralph.
Shelley's a licensed real estate broker
since 1982. Shalley Ralph brings a
wealth of experience and a broad body of
knowledge to better homes and garden
real estate Gary Green in her position
as VP of operations and analytics.
Building upon her successful sales
career, Carly's expanded her skills to
include relocation services and
naturally transitioned her experience
and her talents into sales management.
Now, Shelley is al also has an
impressive history of industry
leadership, serving on numerous
committees, task forces, and leadership
positions with the Houston Association
of Realtors, where she was chair of the
board of directors for the 2014 calendar
year. In addition, she's held director
and committee positions with Houston
Association of Realtors, Texas
Association of Realtors, and the
National Association of
Realtors. Welcome, Shellyley. And
lastly, but not least, my friend here in
Love, Texas, Ruben Trujillo. For Reuben,
faith and family are two words that are
near and dear to his heart. He's married
to a wonderful, supportive woman named
Haley and together they have four
energetic young children. Ruben moved to
Love in 2009 to attend school at Texas
Tech University, found himself loving
love so much that he now calls has
called it home ever since. Ruben has
Ruben has a passion for helping people
and has spent his career channeling that
passion into helping his clients in
various industries for over 15 years. In
real estate, he's been helping families
in the Lev area to buy and sell homes
since 2017. And most recently, Ruben has
launched his own brokerage called Clear
Rock Realy here in Lach, which in one
year has grown to nearly 30 agents,
which by the way, in our market, that's
a big deal.
um serving uh all the West Texas and
surrounding communities of Labok and
he's just recently launched his podcast
calling leading love. So, thank you all
for being here. We have a a a whole list
of questions that we're going to ask
these uh these realtors to address for
us. One of the things um that I was
thinking about uh as we prepared for
this is that um obviously your audience
here uh madams and Mr. Realtors is a
bunch of mortgage
bankers. So I would say if you have a
bunch of complaints about mortgage
bankers, maybe we can wait for another
time to to voice those. But um uh as as
we go through these questions, maybe we
can be thinking about how your
relationship and mortgage banking
relationships go together. That sound
good? So everybody just jump in when uh
when you feel but we're gonna I don't
know what that is.
Whoops. I think we Oh, Joe got a phone
call. Sorry. Okay. Well, we'll start.
First one has to do with regional
insights. I want each one of you to to
jump in if you feel like, but the
question is this. How do current real
estate market trends differ across the
different regions of Texas? And are
there unique challenges or opportunities
that are specific to your areas?
Obviously, we've got some bigger
metropolitan areas and some some smaller
local areas.
So, who wants to jump in on that one?
I can
I can um in in Houston, we cover a
pretty wide variety of of markets. Um
the greater Houston area covers actually
a 7count area which um crosses over from
inner city to suburban markets um as
well as coastal um all the way up to um
the lake country and in the Conroe area
and country properties. So, we have a
wide variety of inventory and um markets
that we actually cover throughout the
greater Houston area. Um I don't think
our challenges really vary from one
market to the other except as it relates
to maybe coastal property versus country
properties.
That's good. Ruben, do you have
something you want to offer there?
Yeah. So, I mean really love is in a
large region, right? we we've we're
we're we're pretty well um confined to
to a certain parameter and it's pretty
small compared to some of these other
metroplexes. Uh however, like in in what
we're seeing in our market right now is
we have a lot of new builds like love is
moving south in a rapid pace and so uh
it's interesting because we have
different what used to be I think in
love just one confined area very uh
similar similar homes. Now, we're
starting to see a lot of different
subdivisions being developed. We got
different price points. Uh, and LEC
economically, uh, we're doing well. And
so, we have a lot of people who who are
able to afford higherend homes. And so,
we're seeing a lot more of our, you
know, $750 million plus homes being
built in different areas. So, yeah, it's
it's an interesting market because we're
we're dealing with a lot of builders and
um they're, you know, their inventory in
our MLS is growing rapidly.
Nice. Thank you for that. Well, Parley,
let me ask you
this. Relative to trends and
predictions. Are you ready to predict?
So, the question is, if only we got a
crystal ball. Yes. Yeah, that's right. I
I I used to be in secondary marketing in
in uh in like Scott is and people would
ask where rates are going and I'd say,
"Well, my crystal ball has too many
cracks in it right now. I can't really
see." But the question is this.
What are the key factors driving
residential real estate in Texas right
now? And what predictions would you make
for the rest of this year 2025 and
beyond when it as it relates to what
driving factors?
Well, I think as it pertains to Austin,
you know, we've had a super strong
market here for, you know, the past
decade up until the last couple years.
You know, CO kind of threw a wrench in
all of our markets, I think, in
different ways. um you know 2020 2021
sales were crazy. Every house was
selling in a matter of hours if it even
made it to market. There were multiple
offers on everything. And you know what
we're seeing is 20 last year was pretty
tough. Um sales were down not a ton, but
for the Austin market, we're finally in
what, you know, a stabilized normal
market should look like, but for most
realtors that have done this for a
while, that was a bit of a change for
people. Um, you know, I think here we've
had a lot of major employers move in
here in the past five years. Um, and
some new ones that are moving in
specifically in the tech market. You
know, we're turning into a huge tech
center. And so we already had um, you
know, Dell and Apple and IBM, HP, those
kinds of companies. And then recently,
of course, Tesla has moved here and is
taking up a lot of real estate. There's
Tesla's everywhere now on the roads. um
Oracle, Google, Meta, those have all
become huge driving factors. Um Samsung
is building a huge fab in Taylor, which
is northeast of our area. And so I think
for Austin, a lot of the driving factors
are the tech people that are moving in.
They're following those companies. And
so we're seeing a lot of people move
here from out of state. Um, I think some
of the challenges we're facing are we do
have people that want to sell their
houses that purchased them in the past
two or three years. And a lot of those
people are having to take a loss. I
personally am closing on a property
today. My first loss ever in any of my
real estate adventures, but it is what
it is. You know, sometimes we we got to
move on. Um, so I think what we are
seeing and and the market's already
getting a little bit busier here. I
think it's been relatively flat overall.
I think the the numbers are down
slightly, you know, 2024
um over 2023, but we're starting to see
a lot more buyer activity. And I think
the trends here are, you know, you guys
know in mortgage interest rates have
made it interesting for buyers. Um and I
think the buyers here have finally
accepted that interest rates are not
going to drop significantly. And so they
kind of were waiting. A lot of them have
been on the fence. They've been waiting
to see what was going to happen.
Election years are always weird. So,
we're past an election. People kind of
are settling into whatever that is going
to mean for them. Um, so we're seeing
activity starting to pick up. Buyer
activity. Our mortgage lenders here are
saying their applications have increased
quite a bit in the past couple months.
And so, we're starting to see that
translate into showings for our
listings. Um, I just launched three new
ones on Friday and I'm getting a lot
more activity on those than I did the,
you know, the ones I carried over the
winter. Um, so I think for us the tech
is going to push
it, you know, just understanding the
interest rates probably are not going to
ever go back to where they were, but
there's not going to drop significantly.
So, people are just having to adjust to
the new payment amounts and adjust down
payments and whatever they need to do
for that. Yeah. Isn't that true that the
affordability thing has to do a lot not
just with interest rates but with
insurance lately too? That's a big deal
as far as affordability. And um I think
to your point, I would I would ask a
follow-up question to to the other
couple realtors. Do you think that the
economic um climate here in in all of
the state of Texas, not just the all
this growth in Austin that Carly was
just mentioning with all the um
different industries and and companies
that's come into Austin? Do you see that
same kind of thing happening in the
Southeast Texas, Shalley, and in West
Texas, Ruben?
Shall we? We're still cons um seeing,
you know, quite a bit of of opportunity,
you know, throughout the greater Houston
area. One thing that I didn't mention
before, which is different from Houston
and a lot of other areas, is we have no
zoning. And so, uh you have you have
pockets of commercial and residential,
and you might have midrises and
highrises and hospitals and uh so u
that's an interesting, you know, piece
that a lot of people find uh could some
find challenging, some find the
opportunity in it. um you know when you
come to the Houston area um
affordability is obviously um an issue.
Um however uh pricing of homes in the
greater Houston area still con you know
comparable to other parts of the country
and certainly I think even in other
parts of Texas still remains very
affordable. Um, obviously, um, interest
rates, as Carly said, you know, have
played a little bit of it, but, um, we
try to tell people to, um, fall in love
with the house and date the rate, you
know, it was just, I mean, so you can
you can you can adjust it as you go.
Well, and it's hard to, um, to get
especially younger people, newer home
buyers to understand this, but a 6 and a
half% rate is really good historically.
you know, I mean, the the 50-year
average is somewhere around seven and
three/4ers.
So, but to me, and I would think this um
uh falls over into what you folks say to
your clients, it's about can you afford
that payment on that house you just fell
in love with. And if you can, you can
always get a better rate later on if
they come down a little. Um, anyway, I
got in the way. Reuben, uh, how do you
feel about the economic picture and and
how it's making West Texas grow and
maybe opportunity for more loans?
Yeah, in West Texas, uh, what we're
seeing a lot right now is affordability
remains remains a big driver here. Our
median sales price is still, you know,
under 300,000 and so it is a great place
for people to find jobs to to come from
other places where affordability is a
little bit higher. Uh and so they're
able to come in and and find some good
opportunities. We've had some great
things happening in love with with some
large businesses coming in. It's there
Teslas or Apple or you know, but um we
do have like a large cheese plant that's
coming in uh in the next you know
they've already opened up I think some
of it and there's big big opportunities
for people who who are looking for great
jobs and affordability. Uh I think
that's why love will continue to grow.
Uh, one thing that I found interesting
over the last couple months is seeing
that our our new listings are going
down. We're not seeing as many new
listings hitting the market. Um, and so
I don't know, it may be that interest
rate thing. You know, people are they've
got their houses at twos and threes, you
know, and it's really hard to let that
go for for a six uh to a seven. So,
yeah, we we do see that our business is
picking up in terms of buyers, but new
listings is they are going down a little
bit. So, I think that competition is
going to start to rise. We're going to
see that happen again because right now
it's a balanced market. You know, we're
sitting at about a five month supply of
inventory here and that's, you know,
that's pretty healthy. Uh, we actually
haven't seen that in a while. It's been
closer to the 30s, right? So, that's
things are moving so fast. So, um, yeah,
I think there's a lot of opportunities
here. You know, we continue to have
people eyeing West Texas as a great
place to start a business because they
know their employees can can find
affordable housing.
So you guys um you'll learn throughout
this that I I have the gift of Gab here,
but you you raise a lot of questions as
you give your answers and one of them is
do you think um do you think that the
this affordability crisis and and
whatnot has led more people to cash
buyers? And is that still a thing? Cash
buyers in your
markets? I asked that because of being a
mortgage banker. Obviously, we want we
want people that need loans to buy
houses and you want people just to buy
houses. So, what about cash buyers? Are
they falling away or are they still part
of the thing?
I will say for me, I've been I'm pretty
listing heavy right now. I wish I had
more buyers to bring my lenders, but um
I have seen a lot more cash buyers
coming back. We saw that during COVID.
they, you know, they're coming from
California, Florida, New York, and then
it kind of paused for a while. I am
seeing more of that now. And it seems
like even some of these people sold,
they're local, but they sold their
houses kind of at the height of the
market when prices went crazy and
they've been renting and waiting for it
to come back down. And now that prices
have come back down, they're jumping
back in with cash. Um, so I'm It's kind
of interesting. I'm seeing a lot more
cash buyers, but then first-time home
buyers are coming back out. And so for
them, we're seeing a lot
more, you know, lower down payment
offers than I've seen in a while. A lot
of them are asking for seller paid
closing costs to assist with buying down
the rate or um, you know, just helping
with their cash out of pocket. So, yeah,
for for us, I'm seeing more cash coming
back. We'll see if it sustains, but for
right now, that seems to be true. Yeah.
Cool. Uh there's several questions on
here that have to do with the newer
commission rules um for you folks in the
real estate world. Uh and I kind of want
to consolidate them a little, but so we
don't take up all the time on that. But
I do think it it does relate to mortgage
banking as well because we have to, you
know, we have to know how to
received those on the contract. So, um,
first one was,
um, how are these changes impacting the
way you approach business and client
relationships? And I would add to that
for one of you to, um, answer the next
one was, um, uh, how are you addressing
their concerns, the client concerns
about transparency and the structure of
real estate commission under the new N
rules?
If Joe was here, he'd probably probably
have an answer for that, too. But Ruben
or Shellyley, do you have anything to
add to that?
Yeah, I would I would say here. Yeah, I
could go for it.
U really there hasn't been a lot of
change in the way that that the real
estate transactions have been
structured. I mean, it does bring a
different level of uh conversation to
what's going on. I mean, we're we're
talking to the agents on the other side
of the transaction a lot more about, you
know, compensation. But I think what I
love I'm actually um kind of liking
where this is headed as a as a broker
here in Lach is our agents are having
very very solid conversations with their
clients on the front end. You know,
buyers, it's very transparent. It really
has, it seems like it's heading in that
direction where um we're having more
conversations about who's paying what.
And then on the sell side, of course,
when you're talking to a seller, u yeah,
just this is the advantages to what what
you do when you offer compensation and
this is the disadvantages and vice
versa, you know. So, it really does uh I
think it brings a lot more conversation
to the table, a lot more options. Uh and
so I think the landscape uh in terms of
how the actual transaction has taken
place, uh I think the compensation
layout is still pretty much the same as
it was before. our sellers are usually
paying for compensation on both sides
here in Texas in West Texas and um but
what has changed is that conversation
that has led up to that and I and I do
like the the way that has played out.
What about you and your I would have to
agree. I love the way the conversation
has to go. I mean and I'm on the
corporate side. I have 16 different
offices that I oversee. So, um I like
the fact that they have to have the
conversation. um we are seeing um
probably a shift in some of our markets
um where the seller is really saying,
you know, I I understand it. I'm willing
to pay it, but I'm going to wait and
look at it in an offer. And so, um I
think our biggest challenge then comes
with agents that call and say, "Are you
offering compensation?" We say, "No, the
seller we we might." The seller wants to
see it all in an offer. They want to
look at all of their options. And then
we have people say, "Well, I'm I just
can't show it because, you know, I my
buyer can't pay the compensation." So,
you know, it's it's increased the level
of conversations I am now having at a
broker level with other brokers about
how their agents are addressing it in
their offices. So, um but it's also off
I mean that's opened up more
conversation between brokerages. Um and
I I think that's always a good thing as
well. But, um, we're still seeing the
majority of them being covered by
sellers. Um, but sometimes it's it's not
until an offer actually happens on the
property.
Same for you, Carly. Yeah. I mean, like
Ruben said, I do think there's a lot
more transparency as it relates to
compensation and who is paying what, and
I like that. I I think it's been a good
thing. Um, for me, my sellers don't feel
so forced to commit to paying a
percentage upfront, but like both of
them said, reality is they generally are
covering the buyer's agent commission.
Um, I would say my sellers are 5050 on
whether they're willing to include it in
a listing agreement upfront. Some say,
"Yes, I'll pay it. I want to be
competitive." Others are saying, "I want
to wait to see the offer. I, you know,
depending on what the terms of the offer
are, I'm willing to pay it. But we are
seeing some lowball offers in our
market, too. People are trying to really
push pricing and and, you know, the uh
concessions that they're getting. So,
but I I think it's been great. I've
always operated with my clients signing
a buyer representation agreement before
I show houses. And I think the agents
that haven't done that as a course of
standard practice are the ones that have
had the hardest time making a
transition. Um just because they're not
used to it and I I've done it my entire
career. So those conversations aren't
really any different for me. It's still
we're going to try to pursue this from
the seller, but if they're not willing
to cover it, this is what you're
committing to. So for me that
conversation hasn't changed. I think
it's more changed on the seller side and
then also the agents. And I do think
there's still some training that needs
to happen with a lot of agents and their
brokerages. They don't quite understand
the new contracts, the new agenda. And
I'm sure that's hard for you guys on the
mortgage side too to try to figure out
like who's paying what. There's
different places it goes now. And I have
seen I just got an offer last night on
one of my listings and the agent didn't
do it right. But that's what we're
seeing a lot. So, I think it's just us
all working together to make sure
everybody understands how it needs to
look contractwise and um having those
conversations. And I, you know, I think
the agents that are saying they're not
willing to show a property because the
seller isn't committing to a commission
rate upfront um are really missing out.
They're doing their clients an injustice
and and I hope that we see that change,
but we are seeing that a little bit in
our market, too. It's interesting. Well,
and I think I think another interesting
piece of that um revolves around working
with the buyers and making the buyers
understand too that they should go see
every property. Um and that uh because
you never know, you know, what your
offer is going to look like. For years
and years and years, we've negotiated
closing costs. Um and most sellers
didn't say, "I'll pay closing cost
upfront," but they u we've negotiated in
the offer and buyers and sellers have
had to make decisions about whether or
not they were going to move forward with
the transaction. So, um, that's what we
try to, you know, consult with the
buyers and have them understand that,
you know, we we need to find the right
home for you and then let's figure out
how we're going to structure the
transaction. That's good. Well, and I
would say at least in our market to your
point about collaboration with each
other on both sides of the deal and the
brokerages, the same thing is happening
here with the with the lenders and the
realtors, I think, because when we, like
you said, Carly, when we get a contract,
we have to know who's paying what and
where, you know, and if it's not clear,
um, it gives us the opportunity to talk
to the agents about that, too. I mean,
we try to stay in touch with them all
the time, but so yeah.
Um, anything else on that? Because we
got another few subjects to go
to. Great. Well, thanks so much already
for all your participation. You guys are
great. Uh, the next one is sort of
taking a turn around the corner and it's
about technology and tools. And Carly,
in your um uh bio, there was a little
little portion that I didn't read to
everybody about how you love the
technology suite, but the question is,
are there any tools or technologies that
you rely on to streamline transactions
and enhance the client experience in
light of all the different market
changes? And I would add to that, how
about AI? Are you using AI? Because
that's a big buzz in the mortgage
industry. So, Carly, you want to start?
and you guys can address it. Yeah. Um,
I've always
been I've used tech in various ways and
different websites and apps um really to
streamline business, make it more
efficient, make it more transparent for
my clients. Um, that was a challenge
moving from larger brokerages. I'd
always been with the big brokerages and
I when I started my own brokerage um
really trying to figure out which tools
I were I was going to use and offer my
agents um since I recently switched back
to Compass. It's been great just because
they are very technologically advanced
compared to most brokerages. They have a
lot of tools on the back end for us as
agents. Um and they actually just
launched some new stuff. So, we have a
full CRM. We have automated marketing.
We have um all sorts of things that we
are using. They just launched Compass
One, which is like this whole client
dashboard where they can see every step
of the process, what the agents doing,
what's been done, you know, as far as
marketing and all of that. So, I think
that's been great and and there are so
many tools out there. I don't think
there are any that are specifically
better than others, but I do think it's
important that agents are using those um
not only to stay organized and
efficient, but also to make sure that
they're providing the best service to
their clients. Yeah. Well, the
communication tools, right? I mean, some
people want to text, some people want
phone calls, some people want face to
face, some people want I don't know what
they want a robot. Anyway, uh Shalley,
anything to add to that or
No, I mean not really. I mean, we have
all different technology tools that keep
the client involved through the
transaction, but um you know, again, I
think there's nothing that beats kind of
a face to face and um just, you know,
staying in touch with your clients and
and you know, making sure everybody's on
the same page. I mean, I think just the
conversations are the most critical
piece of it because that's what we do
bring to the table. There is so much
technology out there. We bring the the
people side of it to them. And Ruben,
from the standpoint of not being with a
big national brokerage anymore, um
you're you probably have a little
different perspective. One of the things
I want I would love for you to talk
about is the importance of the CRM and
staying in touch with your people. And I
want to tell a really quick story about
Reuben. He already knows what I'm going
to say. Uh so I don't know, it was four
or five years ago or so. And in the
mortgage industry, I think that, you
know, some people are really good about
CRM and some are not. Uh because I I
have, you know, connections around that,
talk to people. But, um, Ruben called me
one day and he said, um, "Hey, you want
to go to lunch next week?" Now, Reuben's
the realtor. I'm the lender, right? So,
remember that. So, we make a date, we go
to lunch next week. And in our
conversation, I said, "Well, Ruben, what
made you call me? that should be me
calling you to um invite you out to
lunch cuz you're referring business to
me. He said, "Well, I just got to be
honest with you. My CRM told me to call
you that day and that was the way it was
and I called you." So, I love that
story. But, um anyway, Ruben, I'll get
I'll stop talking and let you address
both the technologies that you know and
and maybe a little bit about CRM.
Yeah, absolutely. So yeah, being a being
a smaller brokerage is interesting
because we don't have all of the the big
tools that are backing up our
technology, but the what we found very
similar to what Shalley said is is
relationships are key, right? So if you
have the right relationships and you are
uh really staying in front of your
clients at all times, uh the technology
is really just a supplement to what
you're doing. And so uh it's it's kind
of just holding you up as you continue
in business. And so yeah, we we've found
what has worked well for us, our
transactions. We have a great
transaction software and we have a
transaction coordinator behind the
scenes and all of that has been running
so smoothly. And then our CRM is my big
push, you know, that we have two of us
that actually lead Clear Rock Realy,
Tanner Dean, and then myself. And so
Tanner is our technology guy. So it's
great to have that person where you can
fall back on because that's not my my
skill set. And I can touch into AI a
little bit and how I how I use that. But
um
CRM, I created this program for our
agents and it's all about connecting
with your what what I call the top 100
and then uh it's just almost like a VIP
treatment uh to get your conversion
ratio higher with with your sphere and
sphere referrals. And um we we have to
use the CRM in order for that to work
effectively. So we built that out in a
way that it's a plug-andplay. I mean, if
you just follow our system, you should
have no problem getting leads, no
problem building your your sphere and
your referral base system and or your
your leads. And so, yes, to Tom's point,
uh he's he is in my database, you know,
and uh one as a friend, but you know,
secondly, I think we do the more we
connect with our lender partners, you
know, the more that there is going to be
some back and forth and uh just
continuing those relationships. I mean,
I I want to know what he needs uh from
us, you know, in order to continue
building the relationship and and I know
he's great at doing that with our
company as well. So, yeah, I think it's
just a matter of um finding the people
whether or not you think you're going to
get business from them or it's just, you
know, you need to stay in in front of
them because they're just great
relationships. I mean, CRM are for that.
And I tell people being in real estate
just makes you a better friend in
general. And I think real estate agents,
if you're a great real estate agent,
you're you're a great friend to many
many people. Uh and and I think the same
thing with more in the mortgage world,
too. I mean, that is uh something I've
talked to some friends of mine who are
in the in, you know, their lenders here
in Levik and asking questions about
leads, and it's like, man, just just get
into a CRM. And yes, it feels weird
calling somebody and and sounding
authentic once when it's popped up on
your screen that it's time to call them,
but you do that enough times and you
become a friend, right? And you're doing
it, it's like a reminder like, "Oh yeah,
I do need to reach out to that person."
So that's that's where I've gone with
the CRM and I don't think there's
anything more important in our industry
than having a well-built out CRM and
following that. And then real quick,
I'll speak on the AI because I was
totally against it when it first came
out. you know, one of those of like,
man, it's gonna take over our world and,
you know, we need to think for ourselves
and and what I've realized um is it just
becomes a a second brain of mine to to
think a little bit differently than I
thought before. Uh it's almost like
somebody sitting right next to you and
saying, "Well, let's think about this
angle." And so, I actually use it a lot.
I don't rely on it as like the end be
the be end all however that's phrased.
And um I just use it as a way to, you
know, to check things. I plug in my data
for the market and just say, "Hey, help
me interpret what these numbers mean and
let it kind of give me that angle." And
it's worked out great because then I get
to kind of compare my thoughts with AI's
thoughts. And and so we we I say me as
an owner, but also a lot of our agents
utilize that. I just tell them, don't
make contractual decisions based off of
what AI instructs you, you know, but
just still come to me. still, you know,
use your own brain to do these things.
But it's a great uh kind of a great
sidekick in my opinion. I think it's
allowed you um the ability to kind of
like you said, pull your thoughts
together and and give yourself a
creative way to to try to position
something. I've used it um in
presentations and things like that just
to because I I hit a roadblock and I
don't know where, you know, I'm like,
what do I want to say next? And I plug a
couple of things in and it kind of gets
your brain thinking in a different way.
So I think it's good. Yeah. It doesn't
replace not to be relied on, but it but
yeah, it doesn't replace. Yeah. Well,
and I noticed in the beginning of this
meeting that there were a couple of AI
notetakers that logged into the meeting.
And I would say whether you're a
mortgage banker or a realtor or whoever
those services, explore those because
when it comes to AI, that's one of the
best tools. Um, I do a little bit of
coaching on the side and uh and uh with
permission I let the AI notetaker take
notes and listen in on the conversation
and then you're able to give feedback.
You're able to, you know, put that in
your notes. It's so great. So, side note
there, but I a little I don't own an AI
note-taking company, so that's not
self-s serving. I just think it's a
great uh tool. So, um I'll add something
really quick if you don't mind. So like
Ruben, I was kind of resistant. I didn't
really want to get into AI. I was like,
h whatever that is. But in the past few
months, I've actually started using it
more. I don't rely on it for anything.
And it's sort of been an experiment of
I'll even type in questions, things I
would normally search for in Google.
I'll put into chat GPT. And the
responses it gives me are usually much
more thorough than what I would find
doing a Google search and reading
through a bunch of articles or whatever
it is. Um, so it's kind of improved in
that way. I was going to I'm doing a new
farm and so I typed up a letter to send
out and I put it in there and just got
feedback on anything I should change.
Um, our MLS system, I don't maybe
Houston, you're the same. I don't know
about love. Um, it just changed to where
now it will automatically write AI
descriptions for the photos. And it's
kind of a joke here right now. We're all
It's so bad. I mean, it will improve
over time, but it's like the AI
descriptions will say carpeted bedroom
with baseboards and visible vents, and
we're like, "Okay, that's not
useful." Um, but I do think that going
to improve, you know, they just rolled
this out. And, um, people have been
using it a lot for listing descriptions,
um, you know, all sorts of things. So,
yes, I mean, I was resistant, but I'm
slowly getting into it. And I do think
we're seeing it a lot more in all
industries that kind of are associated
with real estate.
Had it for a while in the MLS for the
the photo descriptions. And I think
again, if you're not one that writes
great descriptions, it's a good way to
start and then adjust and make it your
own words. Yeah, that's the thing. You
have to you have to adjust it. And you
can ask it to get to know your voice and
the way you like to say things, too. But
um I I did just on a final note on that.
I um Dave Savage is a guy that is in the
mortgage industry and he does a lot of
coaching, training videos, that sort of
thing. And he wrote an article
yesterday, I think it was about uh
helping everyone to remember that it's
AI and human beings, not AI instead of
human beings. I thought that was a great
way to put it. and uh and in the
mortgage industry as well. I mean, we we
can use it a lot in our side of things
as well. um if nothing else just to come
up with um besides the note-taking thing
I was talking about come up with um
finding rules and regulations and get
you know all the things that are putting
a a scenario in and just saying hey I
got self-employed borrower who has this
and this and this you know and it can
come back with some decent answers to
like you guys said give you some food
for thought you know so great um Next
one, uh, advice for new realtors, for
newer realtors entering the industry.
What advice would you give them about
building a successful career in this
evolving market? That was the question.
And I added this, especially as it
relates to the lending needs of their
clients. What What would you tell a a
new realtor
about that?
Find another profession.
Find another profession. I'm just I'm
just joking. No. No. Um, you
know, as all of us on here on the call
know, we've all been in the industry for
a few
years. Everything's just evolving. And
you know, I think we can all agree since
COVID, our industry's evolved more in
the last I mean, we're right at five
years now than I mean, I've been I'm
going on 18 years. And I mean, it's
evolved more in the last five years than
it has in the, you know, 15 years
previously I was in the industry. And I
just think anybody that's getting into
our industry now needs to know a few,
you know, just a couple things you got
to know. Like a gotta, you have to know
a good lender. I mean, that's first and
foremost
because, you know, I mean, I have a deal
today that
um it's closing and then I have another
deal supposed to close tomorrow where
we're still waiting on the CD as we all
know. like that's a key part to closing
and you know it's a new construction
deal so I had no control over the lender
because they used the preferred there
and I mean I I tell all my agents um you
know the newer age like you need to get
a very good lender partner
because lenders can make you or break
you. I mean, their knowledge, knowing
all the ins and outs, you know, living
in Dallas, we have lots of condos and
that's a whole another animal. If
lenders aren't familiar with that kind
of stuff. So, you know, that's from a
lending side for a new agent. I think
it's paramount, you know, as far as like
who you work
with, type of deal you're doing, things
like that. So, um, kudos to all the
lenders that know the ins and outs of
what types of transactions you're
working on.
Well, and don't you think too when it
comes to lenders, not
just Ruben said it earlier, be a friend.
Lenders should be a friend to their
realtor partners and realtors vice versa
because then you can trust each other
and you can bounce things around and you
can say, "Hey, Shalley, what did you do
that on that contract for, you know, or
you could say, Tom, come on. I need a
little more communication here that you
can do that with friends a lot better,
you know." Sure. All right. Sorry,
folks. Anybody else uh have something to
add to that advice for new realtors?
No, I would agree. I think you have to
have a partnership and find someone that
you can trust as well. Um, and I I find
that newer ones don't have as much
trouble as the ones that have been doing
it differently for a long period of
time. So, um, I mean, because they I
mean, they don't know any different. So,
some of our newer agents are are having
no problem talking to buyers and sellers
about the forms. Uh, they have no
trouble reaching out and asking
questions. Um, I just encourage them,
um, as one of my managers said today,
come to us because they can fire us if
we make a mistake. Don't go to the other
agents in the office who may not really
have the right answer. U, they may have
the perfect answer, but um, trust in
your leadership, too, to to help you
through the transaction.
Well, dare I say, at my age, you can't
teach an old dog new tricks. Is that
what you're saying?
Oh, you can. I mean, and and there are
some that are very teachable, you know.
So I have plenty of ones that have been
in the business a long time and have
embraced the change very well. Yeah.
Yeah. Reuben looked like you were
thinking something there.
Yeah. I think I mean one thing I
practiced as a new agent and I think we
you know any agent that comes in our
office is the two things. Be the expert,
be the friend. Right. So we're real big
on relationship building. You know you
walk in our door and that's all we're
going to be talking about is building
relationships and how to do that well.
But none of that really matters if you
don't know anything. And so those two go
hand in hand. And the same thing, you
can know everything, but it doesn't
matter if you don't have deep
relationships. And so we we really
hammer on both of those things. And I
think the be the expert part is is one
that can be easily forgotten. I think
people just kind of wait on their first
transaction. And my advice to new agents
is go ahead and just start practicing,
right? start understanding what are the
different areas in Levik that you need
to be focused on, what are the different
programs for lending because those
questions come up and you don't know the
questions until they do. And so just
getting to know as much information as
possible and I think the lender partners
do help with that. We do a u we do a
lunch and learn every Monday in our
office and uh one it brings people in
together because they love free food. So
that always there always gets people in
our office but secondly we do it to to
vary up in the industry. We'll have, you
know, a lender, we'll have title
companies, and then we get into even
like inspectors and electricians and
plumbers. And, uh, we just want them to
come in so that our our higher level
senior agents will ask questions that
the new agents don't even know they need
to know anything about. And so, it
really does help bring a lot of insight.
So, we do, we try to bring in as many
different angles, um, different
scenarios as we can so that new agents
can learn. And so, my my advice would be
show up to these things. If a lender
takes you wants to take you to lunch or
coffee, don't be afraid of that. You
know, jump into it and then just start
asking every dumb question you can think
of. Um, just to get your feet wet.
That's great. Uh, Carly, do you have
anything to add to that? Yeah, I think I
was really fortunate when I first got
into real estate. I never joined a team
or anything. I always started as a solo
agent and so I had so many questions
initially, but I was grateful that I had
a mentor that immediately introduced me
to her preferred lender and her
preferred title company um escro officer
and it really you need a team to succeed
and especially when you're starting out.
I didn't want to call my broker with
every single question, right? So, I
would call my lender with certain
questions and I've built a great
relationship with him and I have other
lenders too, you know, it's but you know
that he's referred me leads over the
years, but he was always a great
resource for quick questions and so
patient of you know, I have this buyer.
I didn't understand the difference
really between conventional and FHA and
VA initially and what the differences
were and how much you could ask for, you
know, in concessions and all of those
things. So, I think having a good
lending partner really can make a big
difference in your level of expertise
and what you can offer to the clients.
And for those of us that have been in
real estate for a long time, you know
the difference between a great lender
and one that doesn't know what they're
doing. And it can make or break a
transaction. I mean, I've only had a
couple times that I have let clients use
a lender that I knew was probably not
going to be great and it didn't go well.
They, you know, it's up until closing
date and all of a sudden they can't
close and so I'd roll it to one of my
preferred lenders and they would get it
closed really quickly. So, I do think
it's important for new agents to build a
network um of experts in different
fields because everyone has something
different they can teach you and they
can offer. I did go to a lot of lunch
dates and coffee dates with lenders when
I first started because you have time,
right? You're not busy yet. And I
learned something different from each of
those. Everyone has a little bit
different perspective and I think that's
good. You know, I think as far as the
other thing goes, and you guys are
numbers people, so you get this, but so
many realtors are not. They are not they
don't track their numbers. They don't
know anything. And so for me, I've
always encouraged agents to have a
business plan. set some specific goals
that you can try to achieve. And then
let your lending partners know like they
can help you get to that your goals,
meet your goals, but track your numbers,
you know, know how many transactions
you've done, what you've sold. It's just
shocking to me how many agents have no
idea. They they just don't know. And
I've I'm I'm a big spreadsheet person,
so I always keep track of everything.
I've got all my stuff, but um you know,
and there's successful realtors that
don't do that. But I do think it's
helpful to be able to have a business
plan and track the numbers. Yeah, that
that applies to the mortgage world, too.
You know, I mean, just a simple
statistic like you, let's just pick a
random number. Uh, historically, I've
closed 40% of the applications I've
taken. Okay. Well, that means that
you've got to have that many. If you
want to close 10 loans, you got to, you
know, have 40 applications. That kind of
thing. So, it works in our business too
to to know those numbers. Um, well, we
have about 12 minutes left and in a
minute we're going to I want to give the
audience a war a warning. If you have
any questions for these folks, please
put them in the chat right now. And uh
and we'll get to them in just a minute.
But I would like to ask all I'm not sure
if Joe is is with us or not. He had a
appointment that he had to go. Well, I'd
ask to jump off in just a minute. Yeah.
Okay. Well, then you go first um to to
give us just a closing thought or two
about especially about relationships
with the mortgage industry and how that
helps you or hurts you.
Well, you know, like I stated earlier is
um you know, lending partners can make
you or break you. you know, my main
trusted lender I work with, uh, funny
enough, I took a summer school class
with him, uh, back when I was at UT long
time ago, and we reconnected at a MLS
meeting here in Dallas in my second year
in real estate, and just naturally
already knew him. So, you know, we built
a relationship and, you know, the number
one thing that I always remember of why
Scott became my main go-to lending
partner um was he was on his honeymoon
and I was dealing with my biggest client
to date at that time and I think they
were in Italy or somewhere like that and
he ran up he ran up a $600 phone bill
answering my buyer's questions. Wow. And
I was like, "Wow." So, he works just as
hard as I'm
working. So, like it was done. I was
like, "You're on your honeymoon. I don't
expect you to do that, but you went
above and beyond." And you know, we've
had a relationship now going on 16
years. Uh, and you know, with Scott,
that's how he is. He will be on
vacation, be wherever, and he always
answers his phone. And as realtors and
brokers, we always have to answer our
phone. I mean, yeah, you know, so we
kind of expect the same out of our, you
know, partners and, you know, just going
above and beyond and just really just
know, you know, I mean, you know, like
he can get out in front of a deal when
he knows there's tight DTI, this that he
can get creative. And I think that's the
main thing where lenders separate
themselves with me is how creative can
you get? Cuz I've had a deal where I'm
using another lender
um actually deal I'll reference. I'm on
the sell side and I knew the lender on
the the buy side but you know 5 days
before closing for whatever reason he
says he can't get the deal done. Well, I
run the scenario by Scott and he's like,
"Well, I don't think he's doing this
workaround, yada yada yada. I think I
can get it done." So, basically, I tell
the buyer's agent, "The only way we're
going to continue to work with you is if
you use our lender." And Scott ended up
getting it closed 12 days later. and to
the point to the point that the agent on
the other side then started using Scott
as his preferred lender because he's
like, man, he knows. So, I mean, it's
things like that is what makes us really
value uh a lender like who can, you
know, think outside of the box and
really understand how to get a deal
done. That's great. Thank you for that.
Um, so Carly, what about you as far as
maybe some final thoughts on the market
and the future since I saddled you with
that question earlier?
Well, I think Texas is one of the best
real estate markets in general in the
country. And you know, I think all of
our major metro areas have always been
in the top, not always, but you know, in
the past 15, 20 years been in the top
list for the country. Um, and so I think
we'll still continue to have strong
markets all over Texas. We have a lot of
major companies that are moving to
different parts of Texas for tax
reasons. I mean, I just heard what KFC
is going to move from Kentucky to Texas.
Like, yeah, that's crazy. Um, so I do
think the market's going to continue to
pick up. I think this year, you know,
Austin historically has had like a 7 to
10% increase per year. I think this year
we're probably going to be closer to
maybe two to 3%. So, it'll be relatively
flat. I think it'll slowly go back up a
little bit. Um, but who knows? We'll
see. I mean, I I think there have been
so many things that have happened,
especially.
[Music]
That's awesome. Thank you for that. So,
Shalley, u final thoughts? Um, and I I'm
thinking about maybe speaking a little
bit to
um the administrative side of things
because that's your forte um both, you
know, in your business and in ours.
Well, and interestingly enough, we had a
a company town hall um this week and you
know, we were talking about the fact
that I mean we deal with the biggest
change people make in their lives,
you know, totally uprooting your life
and making that change and then we all
resist change. So, I would say to to
really be open to the change and try to
adjust to it. Um we've done a lot of
things differently. I I was actually on
the committee with Texas Realtors that
rewrote the forms and so I spent a lot
of time digging into it over the last um
18 months. I um started training to it
um in our office um you know about 18
months ago and you know embrace the
change. It's coming. You're not you know
I mean it just be ready. It it's it's
going to happen. And I think we
mentioned it earlier. Um, in the last 5
years, we've seen a lot of change, a lot
more than we've seen in the prior, you
know, 10 or 20 years. I mean, I've been
in the business over 40 years and, um,
it's it's continuing to speed up the
type of changes that we have. So, I
would say, um, embrace it if you can.
Um, just try to, you know, ask as many
questions. Um, we actually have a, um,
have done written out every possible
scenario that can come in a contract.
Um, we've done it with our company
policies, um, you know, on compensation
in it. And I've done a generic one that
the agents can go hand to somebody and
say, "This is the form you're going to
need. This is the way you're going to
have to to fill this out." So, um, and
and I would just pay attention to what's
coming across your desk, too, because
each contract is different in today's
world. And so, um, I mean, people are
missing things and then they're upset.
Um,
and so I think we just all have to, you
know, dot our eyes a little bit better
and and pay better attention, but also
be open to, you know, the other side of
the transaction. We have to work
together. I mean, all parts of it, the
lending side, the the title company, the
the buyer agent, the seller agent, you
know, so it's just a lot, but yeah.
Well, to be in the industry. Yes, it is.
And it's going to continue to be. Ruben,
just two minutes uh on leadership. your
final thoughts.
Yeah, leadership I'm I'm passionate
about, right? Um started a podcast not
long ago. Um just all about that and and
have the the privilege to meet with some
amazing leaders here in love and uh some
of the things that I hear over and over
again and just consistent care, you
know, um obviously I mean it's so
obvious, but it's a your character
matching up with what you say. And so I
think everybody sees that whether it's
your online presence or whether it's the
way you handle a transaction. I think
people just want to see consistency in
who you are. And so as a leader as we're
leading and whether you're a lender, you
know, leading in your office or or
leading a transaction, uh really just
not being one saying that you're a
certain way and then acting, you know, a
different a different way. Uh being
being super consistent. So, um I I'm
I've got a really cool privilege to sit
on this side of the table when I'm
interviewing people because uh it feels
very selfish that I get all this time
with some amazing individuals and I love
it because the insights are are awesome,
but but it's also it's just so simple,
right? It's all the same message in
different different twists and so yeah,
just be consistent. Excellent. Thank you
for that. And by the way, Vicky Murphy
just put in the chat that she caught
your podcast and she's from Dallas.
She's from Dallas. That's great. Well, I
I just want to say thank you to all
three of you and I'm going to turn it
back over you. Let me finish that
statement. Thank you because you've been
so engaged, all three of you. And Joe,
too, he had to drop off. But I'm going
to toss it back over to Scott and see if
there's any questions and any outro
information. No, Tom, we don't have any
questions. So, and we're just have a
couple minutes left. So, I think uh we
can wrap it up and just want to um thank
uh you for a great job and thank the
panel. Uh really appreciate your time
for uh sharing your knowledge with us.
And uh just want to remind everyone that
the team continues to work on bringing
you great webinars like this one. So,
please check out the homepage at
texasmbba.org for the upcoming schedule
and watch those emails. So, thanks again
everyone. Really appreciate everyone.
Have a great day. Thank you folks. See
you.
