[Music]
Hey everyone, uh Aaron Philbeck here at
Kai Association, global head of content
strategy and I'm joined today by Tim
Kohler who is a partner at Mckenzian
company and a leader of their strategy
and corporate finance practice. Tim, uh
thanks so much for having a conversation
today.
>> Uh thanks Aaron, I'm looking forward to
it.
Great. Well, we've got a lot of talk
about it and you've authored this uh
this valuation bible uh if you will over
several years and each time you do one
of these updates uh you're covering some
new material, some new content that
comes in, usually based on some uh
economic backdrop or what's going on in
the world. And I thought we could focus
in a little bit more on the special
situations segment of this book just
given our audience which is much more
focused on private markets. uh we have
people sitting on the LP side, on the GP
side, um and so on. And one of the
themes that we've really been focusing
on here at KA is this whole convergence
of public and private. We were talking
about this in preparation, but we no
longer kind of have a binary market in
terms of public markets, private
markets, and that's at the actual
capital formation level, and
increasingly it's at the product
structure uh level as well. We've got a
lot of strategies that are incorporating
both. um into uh their different
offerings. So how do you see this
convergence affecting the valuation
discipline and in particular GPS uh from
one perspective that are investing
across both public and private and then
LPs who are maybe historically have
focused on funds and now they're
bringing it in-house and doing it
themselves on directs co-investments and
so on. So, lot in that question, but I'd
love your thoughts on just kind of this
broader convergence uh theme.
>> Yeah, I think when it comes to
GPS, um I think the better GPS were
already used doing a lot of the things
that we would advocate in our book,
right? So, um you know, a focus on
discounted cash flows which drive which
is driven by growth and return on
capital. that's been the foundation of
um valuation for uh many many many
decades right um and nothing really has
changed there and I think that u like I
said the better GPS have always looked
at okay so what are what's a baseline
set of cash flows for a company and what
can we do to make it worth more right so
what is the incremental value that we
had
um and uh so I think that that's there's
really no change there, right? I I think
LPs probably need to get a little more
sophistic if they're going to be
involved more directly uh either taking
direct stakes through the GPS that they
work with or investing, you know, more
directly even than that. They're going
to need the talent to be able to dig
deeper um into analyzing
these companies, right? and and what you
know what what what can they do to make
them worth more because it's always a
matter of you know how do you you know
if you buy a business how do you make it
worth more than what you paid for it uh
and it's unlikely if you're an LP in
particular that you're going to get a
bargain right bargains are rare so you
have to create value you have to improve
the return on capital you have to
improve uh the growth of the business
and so I I don't think that there's any
fundamental differences, right? Um, and
I think it's most important to use the
valuation techniques to understand the
changes in valuation as much as trying
to come up with a single number. Right?
Now, if you're going to buy something,
you have to have a single number. When
you exit exit, you're going to negot
negotiate a price. But the key I think
is often you know how can I make this
business worth 30 or 40 or 50% more than
it was under its prior ownership.
So Tim, you mentioned exits, which I
think is an important consideration,
especially now, you know, maybe, you
know, 10, 15 years ago, 20 years ago. It
was maybe more of a a linear
conversation where you're you're buying
a business in the private markets and
then there's an exit at some point and
typically that was through an IPO or or
through the public markets. Now
obviously you have strategic buyers that
are coming in and buying some of these
businesses after a number of years but
it seems like the optionality is much
wider and and obviously market dependent
what's going on in the market backdrop
and uh we've seen the IPO market um
accelerate and then decelerate uh the
number of strategic buyers accelerate
decelerate. So, how do you whether
you're a GP or you're an LP, how do you
kind of factor that into the modeling
process of valuation in terms of that
optionality when you're trying to take a
long-term view? But some of that is
dependent on what's going on um at that
current part of the cycle,
>> right? And that's why once again, I
think the only thing you can really do
is focus on the fundamentals, right? You
cannot predict,
you know, whe what the IPO market's
going to be like in five years. You
cannot predict what strategic buyers
might be interested or not in five
years, right? Um so you know the way you
create optionality is by giving yourself
some time frame uh flexibility. Uh but
once again if you focus on the
fundamentals of improving the business
uh that in itself creates optionality.
you will have a a more attractive
business uh if you want to do an IPO or
it'll be more attractive to a strategic
buyer even in sort of slow times you
know there are IPO transactions and
there are sellside uh in there are
strategic buyers um so you know the key
is making yourself attractive in those
circumstances once again it goes back to
just focusing on the fundamentals you
can't you know no one can predict uh
what's going to be going on with those
markets it's you know even next year.
>> So so speaking of fundamentals and uh
you know this gets into the actual maybe
some of the themes that you were uh
talking about in this new addition we've
we've had this growth of AI and
technology and disruption uh maybe the
the big fundamental underlying driver.
And so as you you've talked through kind
of the valuation frameworks and
methodologies across different stages of
a company's life cycle. So venture to
growth buyout other special situations
and when you think about uh some of the
changes that we've seen on on the
technology front or even the
geopolitical front which I know is much
more macro but it does have a more micro
um impact. How have these frameworks
evolved? And maybe back to your earlier
comments, how have they stayed the same
um in an environment like this?
>> Yeah. Well, let's take the case first of
a company that might be using AI as
opposed to a company that's selling an
AI product, right? Um you know, for the
most part, it's just like any other
technology improvement, right? Um, you
know, AI allows you to
um, uh, maybe reduce your manufacturing
costs. It allows you to provide better
customer service. Uh, it might help you
to do a better job of figuring out what
products to design to, you know, that
are going to be most appealing to your
customers, etc. So ultimately for you
know companies that make things and sell
services like that uh it's no different
than any other innovation right the
question is once again you know how does
it improve your your cash flows the the
thing to be careful about though is that
um oftent times your competitors are
doing the same thing you're doing right
uh so in in a sense in many industries
the value of all these improvements is
going to be passed on to the consumer uh
in terms of better products, better
services,
uh maybe lower prices. And you got to
think about how much of it can I
capture. I can only capture the benefits
typically if I'm doing something
different than my peers and I I'm way
ahead of them. Uh or if I have some
other competitive advantage that I can
exploit by using these things. So I
think it is important to be very
cautious about uh it's not that you
don't have to do these things. Uh you
have to do them otherwise you'll be left
behind but you can't assume that it's
necessarily going to increase your
profits or cash flows because you end up
giving away a lot of it. uh example I
like to use is the technologies that's
been changing in the banking world right
you know you go back companies uh banks
you know introduced ATMs in when the 80s
uh early 2000s there was online banking
now everyone has a mobile banking app um
has the banking industry become more
profitable as a result of that no it's
become the price of doing business right
and and it'll be the same thing when
banks adopt uh AI it's going to be the
of doing business. There's competition
still and competition sort of takes that
away. You have to do it, you have to do
it well. It's not necessarily going to
increase your value. Um, when it comes
to companies that are selling AI
products, I think there's still a lot of
uncertainty. We we need to figure out um
what the actual business model is going
to be for some of these. Some of these
is straightforward. they're going to be
selling software to companies uh or
individuals that uh uh you know you you
know just like any other software
company right um you know the question
is you know there's a lot of uncertainty
about the size market share how
competitive the markets will be uh so
you got to look forward you can't you
can't look at historical financials
because there aren't any right so what
we try to do is we try to look forward
and say what what what's a range of
reasonable
uh outcomes, you know, 10 years from now
in terms of the size of the market,
market share, margins, etc., and then
work backwards. But we try not to come
up with a single number. We try to focus
on, you know, what's a what's a range
and what should companies do to maximize
that value.
>> So Tim, I love that uh that comment on
uh what occurs to the actual company
versus maybe society is kind of the the
way to think about that. And I think
about that a lot on AI because there's a
lot of hype around this and clearly you
go through some of these boom bust
cycles where especially in the public
markets if you slap AI on on your name
or or whatever you you get this pop in
terms of of value but to your point some
of this doesn't actually benefit the
company itself. It's more of a broader
kind of societal benefit. So maybe a bit
of a tangent uh to that leads to my
question, but are there any historical
analoges besides banking uh that you
could speak to in terms of how we make
those assumptions of a of a percentage
of the benefit to an industry or a
sector versus just this is better for
the consumer um at the end of the day.
>> Well, a good another example and it
doesn't have much to do with technology
is the automobile industry. And if you
look at it over the last, you know, 50
years or so, the cars we drive today are
even sort of economy, you know,
so-called economy cars, right? Um, they
are safer, they handle better, they are
more luxurious, they have more features.
Um, and yet they don't cost that much
more. Uh, and the auto companies don't
make more money off of them because it's
such a competitive market, right? Every
country wants to protect their auto
industry. Right? In the US, you know, we
first had the Japanese coming in, then
we had the Koreans coming in. U markets
become more fragmented. Uh we have new
startups in the electric world,
competing against established companies
in the electric world. So all the
innovation tends to be given to the
consumer in in that industry and you see
it in a lot of industries. Uh even in
businessto business like you know
chemical industry uh every you know
productivity improvements get passed on
right away too to uh to to their to to
the customers right to you know whoever
you're selling these petrochemicals to
or whatever uh because of competition.
So most industries behave
uh that way to to a large extent, right?
There are some exceptions. Um the
company the best way to sort of create a
a value a distinctive advantage is if
people are willing to pay for your brand
u where you know cost is not really
relevant. So luxury goods and things
like that uh or cons some consumer
packaged goods uh uh where you know if
you can do things you might be able to
maintain your price uh and keep the
benefit um but in a lot of cases um uh
probably the vast majority of cases the
consumer is the ultimate benefit
ultimate beneficiary. So Tim, the the
brand comment I think is is interesting
as well. Um because you know, especially
when you go earlier stage, so you're
you're talking more venture and maybe
less defined industries, less defined
companies, you're relying a lot more on
narrative and qualitative assessment
versus quantitative. You if you're in
the buyout space, you're you're buying,
you know, a company with a long-term
operating history, financial statements
that you can look at. That's not always
the case when you go earlier stage uh
and looking at at some of those
opportunities. So, how do you kind of
balance those two as you start to move
down that uh curve, if you will? And do
some of the more traditional DCF type of
approaches still apply or is there a
different way that you would recommend
investors look at this uh moving
forward? Yeah, I I I think that you know
one of the things that we do is to sort
of
look at it the other way where we say
what would you have to believe
to achieve a certain valuation. So if
you have a company and it's worth you
know hundred billion 500 billion a
trillion dollars
ultimately
that company's value five or 10 years
down the road is going to you know as it
matures is going to be a function of its
you know revenues its profits its cash
flows right so what you can do is you
can ask the question what would I have
to believe uh five or 10 years down the
road and then see whether that is within
the realm of reasonleness, right? U you
know, if you have if you're going to
believe if if in order to justify the
valuation, you have to believe the
company in a narrow market is going to
be generating 500 billion of revenues at
a 50% margin and it's going to be
competitive. You know, you got to
question that. Or if you look at
semiconductors even right now with all
the you know um there's so much
competition and the history of the
semiconductor world right is one of you
know fierce competition cyclicality
uh eventually people catch up. So
companies that have the lead right now
uh may not have the lead in five years,
right? So you have to be careful about
assuming that a company that is uh the
leader in an industry right now is still
going to be the leader in five or 10
years and that the and that competition
is going to allow the same kind of
margins even if it's not the leader. So
that's one of the things that we do uh
is just sort of reverse engineer things
uh to sort of say what would you have to
believe and that's you know so you're
still using DCF in a way uh you're still
looking at the fundamentals uh but
you're you're looking at it from the
perspective of um uh you know what you
have to believe is is a good tool that
we use oftentimes. Uh the other thing
that I've learned is this is sort of a
little bit off topic but it does help.
Uh particularly when it comes to public
markets um you know you know 40 years
ago or so um I was uh I didn't think the
markets could make big mistakes right uh
and now I do. Okay. Um not all the time
and not for most companies at any time.
Uh but we've had you know the dot bubble
and stuff like that. we have a situation
now where seven companies dominate the
S&P 500, right? Um and what I've
discovered and so the question is so so
and and usually like in you know 1999
2000 these bubbles burst right they
always do um so the question is why does
this happen right um and you know
looking at it one of the things we
discovered is that there's sort of a
cycle that creates these bubbles right
that is not counteracted one of the and
one of the elements is first of all
retail investors flooding in to buy a
stock. Okay. Um if you look at the top
seven companies right now, sometimes
people call them the mega 7 or whatever,
the percentage of retail investors is
double the rest of the S&P 500. Okay, so
you have a situation where retail and
how much analysis do retail investors
do? They don't do any number crunching,
right? They just say, "Oh, this is a
good company. People are excited about
it. the stock price is going to keep
going up. So, they just buy, right?
>> They're even have auditions of your
book.
>> Exactly. Exactly. They're not even doing
the basics. Okay. Uh secondly, you then
have trading oriented investors who are
sort of betting on the retailer retail
investor psychology, right? Uh you know,
e even if I think the stock is
overvalued, I'm still going to buy it
because it's going to keep going up and
then I can get out before it crashes too
far and still make money, right? And
then I found that you've also got uh
more traditional pension funds and
mutual funds who feel that at the end of
the quarter they have to have those
stocks in their portfolio otherwise
it'll look like even if they don't
believe it but they'll have to have
those stocks in their portfolio. So you
have all these forces pushing up the
stock price and nothing to counteract
them because shortselling is the only
way to counteract that. Short selling is
very risky. Um, and uh, it's expensive
and there's just not enough potential
short selling to keep to to keep the
share price uh, maybe something more
reasonable and as a result you do get
these bubbles that last for a while. Uh,
and um, you you know and and eventually
they will they will burst, right? And
and you see the same thing in the
private markets from time to time,
right? people get, you know, which you
expect to be less of an issue. Um, but,
you know, you do see people get really
excited about a particular new industry
or particular company or there's one or
two private investors, venture capital
funds who are willing to pay, you know,
enormous amounts sometimes, the more
naive ones. Uh, and um, so you can see
it with prices that get too high
sometimes in the private markets as
well.
>> Yeah. and and and I want to go back to
an earlier one of the first comments you
made which is this uh it's not about
getting the number right as much as it
is the direction uh to some degree and
maybe tie that with your your comments
there like you know what is the market
telling me and do I agree with it or
what do I have to believe in order to to
get there um which I I think is a good
way to look at things it's hard to kind
of get to a science of like well this is
worth X because it's always changing
based on your uh your different
assumptions so that I think that leads
into my next question which is you know
especially for investors who are new in
the private market so maybe LPs that are
doing the the direct co-investing for
the first time there's not a lot of
information that's out there so it's
hard to to develop a belief based on
what is already in existence because in
some cases there's not market
comparables there's limited transparency
into the companies so how do you kind of
navigate that in terms of those
complexities when you don't have much to
go on at the end of the day.
>> Yeah. I I guess I would argue though
that
if I was investing directly,
uh I was an institutional investor, um
if I didn't have the same transparency
that I get with the listed company, I I
would just I wouldn't buy it. Um you
know, because then you're essentially
relying on someone else to make those
decisions for you. Um unless you really
trust them, right? Um, and from what
I've seen, uh, some of the better, uh,
institutional investors have now built
up very sophisticated teams of people
who analyze these kinds of investments.
And I'm I'm pretty positive that they're
not going to analyze or they're not
going to go with something that uh is
where they don't feel that they know
enough about the business that they're
investing in. So once again you have
this dichotomy between the most
sophisticated
uh uh investor institutional investors
who are doing this right and then
institutional investors who want to do
this but they're not willing to make the
investment and so they're going to be
getting the ones that are sold to them
right uh without you know that kind of
interaction. Maybe they don't want to
build up the teams necessary to do the
work. If you're not willing to do the
teams necessary to do the work, uh you
probably shouldn't be doing that.
>> So beyond that, this and this this is my
final question for you, but maybe ending
where we started, which is this
convergence, uh you know, the funds and
direct the public and private. Um, so
you mentioned team sophistication and
and making sure that you've actually got
people who understand this stuff. For
for people who are in this kind of
journey of of doing it themselves or
looking at these new structures that are
available, any common pitfalls or things
that newcomers should look out for uh
before they start to move into to doing
it themselves?
I think I think the common pitfall is
one not investing enough in the team,
not paying the team enough to be able to
get the top talent. I think that's a big
issue. And I think the other other piece
of advice is
um you know be careful about things that
are being shopped around, right?
Um, so you know, you're going to if
you're going to co-invest, you know, you
want to co-invest with a private equity
firm that you've had a long-term
relationship with and there's trust
built up, right? And they and they have
an incentive to make sure that, you
know, it doesn't go bad for you because
they've got the same thing. Uh, uh,
those kind of things. So I think it's
you know it's just you know one you know
make making a big enough investment to
be able to do it yourself and secondly
you know choosing your partners very
carefully.
>> Got it. Well Tim uh maybe talk a little
bit about the book. Uh this is the
eighth edition. What's new? Uh why did
you decide an eth edition was necessary
on this evergreen topic of uh
evaluation?
>> Yeah well we've been this is the eth
edition so it's 35 years. Um and well
first of all what we find is that people
like to have new examples uh and have
all the analyses updated to something
more current right so that's part of it
um and then part of it is just figuring
out you know what's going on in the
world that we should be talking about
right so we have a full chapter now on
digital uh or technology that would
include AI etc we have a whole chapter
on sustainability how that how to think
about that uh as a company in terms of
valuation. Um we put in chapters on
private equity and um uh and uh venture
capital uh high growth companies we've
always had there but we've amplified
that chapter etc. So um you know we want
to keep it current in light of what's
going on in the world. the fundamentals
don't change at all. Uh but investor but
readers do like to have the the latest
edition and it's always uh impresses me
that people do buy multiple editions,
right? Um so uh we do try to keep it up
to date and u we're really excited at
the reception of you know all the
additions and and and and the latest
edition as well.
>> Well, great. Well, Tim, I I appreciate
your uh sharing some insights and uh
sharing more a little bit about uh the
book as well. Um always a pleasure and
uh for those who have not read or
checked out the book, I would encourage
you to, but uh looking forward to doing
this again sometime soon.
>> Thank you, Arin. Look forward to it as
well. Have a good day.
[Music]
