With one single website and a few ad
accounts, I've been able to sell over $5
million worth of leads in the past
couple years. This is only for one of
our lead generation websites, and that's
why this is the best business model of
2026. In this video, I'm going to show
you exactly how to build a lead
generation business where you generate
leads and you sell them for a profit.
We're going to break it down really
simple so that you can replicate these
steps. And if you take a look inside
LeadBase, you'll see that a ton of
people have already done this
themselves. In fact, Jacob, who joined
in January, has already sold over
$300,000 worth of leads because it's an
easy business model. All you have to do
is sell people leads, which they need.
Every salesperson, every sales team
needs leads, and then you go and
generate them on Meta and Google for
less than you sell them for. It's pretty
straightforward. Let's jump into the
video and I'll show you how it's done.
And guys, if you love the video and
you're interested in this model, join
LeadBase free down below. It's a school
group with over 11,000 members, where we
teach how to build a lead generation
business, and we're releasing new
content this month, so you're going to
want to join that and check it out. All
right, let's jump on the computer. Okay,
guys, so today, again, we're going to
talk about why the pay-per-lead business
model is the simplest and most scalable
business model out there in digital
marketing. So, many people who are
watching this video may have a marketing
agency where you sell retainers. You
sell a retainer for $1,500 or $2,500 or
maybe even $10,000. But to scale to a
100K a month plus, let alone $10,000 a
month, you need a lot of clients on
retainer who kind of get to tell you
what to do. But I'm going to show you
why buying a lead for 50 bucks via Meta
Ads or Google Ads, so paying $50 for a
lead and selling it for 100, is a much
better model. Okay? So, let's go through
this presentation
and I'll show you what's up. I'll show
you how I do things in our agency. So,
again, the core idea is very simple. You
generate a lead on your own website, on
your own ad account. You're not going
into other people's ad accounts or
websites so that when they fire you, you
lose everything. You're building up your
own ad account. You're building up your
own website.
Uh and then you're generating a lead
through your website funnels. So,
through a landing page, you're
generating a lead. Let's say it's for
life insurance. You have a life
insurance website, you have a life a
life insurance insurance funnel, you
have ads on Meta, you generate a lead,
someone says, "I'm interested in life
insurance." And let's say, this isn't
isn't actually what a life insurance
lead costs, but let's say you get the
lead for 50 bucks, and then you sell it
for 100 bucks. That's how the model
works, okay? So, you get the lead and
you sell the lead, and you do it over
and over again. Most people, most
buyers, or at least this is how we sell
things, they pay up front for a set
number of leads. So, a buyer might buy
100 leads for $100 per lead. That would
be $10,000. And if I can go get those
leads for 50, I made
five uh $5,000. You can see how this
model works very simply.
And here's the math that makes it really
irresistible. This is why what drew me
to Paper Lead back in the day when I ran
an agency that was doing 20k a month,
but it was just it was just endless
hours. I feel like you you've probably
heard this story. I feel like every guru
has this story of like, "Oh, it was
working so hard, now I found this
thing." But, like truly, you know, I
switched to Paper Lead, one website at
that point literally like 5x that. Like,
our our our Paper Lead was doing around
100k off one website, and let yet my my
agency that would make was making 20k, I
had like 10 clients. Like, it was just
way too much work, way too diversified.
My clients told me what to do, and when
they fired me cuz COVID hit, I lost
everything essentially. But, when I
built a Paper Lead business, I sold one
lead and I made around $50 profit. Then,
when I sold 100, I made $5,000 profit.
And once you get to the 1,000 lead mark,
obviously this depends on what you're
selling leads for and the niche you're
in, but we were we were getting leads
for around 50 and selling them for 100
in the legal space. And so, once we hit
1,000 leads, we were making That was
50k, and we were able to scale that to
about 3,000 leads a month. I would never
be able to do that with retainer. No
one's just going to pay you because I I
sure, you could have incentive
incentives in there, but most of the
time when you're running ads for people
maybe maybe it's a percentage of ad
spend at best.
Um, but it's a lot harder to sell that,
too. And so this model is just very
straightforward. I'm going to give you
leads and you're going to give me
feedback on how they're how they're
working for your sales team and we're
going to scale this together. That's
what we say to our partners. They give
us feedback. We continually improve the
campaigns for them. They keep buying
more leads. It's it's really that
simple. Now, here's why this I think is
this is the easiest sell ever. When you
go to someone with uh, you know, you
want to
work on a marketing retainer for them,
you kind of got to pitch them on like
you're you're essentially pitching them
as kind of like their employee. Hey, I'm
going to do all this stuff for you. I'm
going to overhaul your website or I'm
going to run your ads or I'm going to do
whatever for you.
It's just not as it's not as productized
as lead generation is because every
business needs leads. When you go to
someone selling leads, again, they're
not nice to have. They need them. You
say, "I've got people who are ready to
buy. Do you want them?" That is so much
stronger than, "Let me run some ads for
you and we'll see what happens." Okay?
So the sale is easier. There's no long
sales cycle.
Every essentially every buyer I've
closed has been a one-call close, maybe
two. Again, I'm not pitching marketing
retainers or complex services. It's just
I literally I've got people who are
coming through my website and filling
out a form who want more information. Do
you want it Do you want to connect with
those people or not? That's that's it.
And recurring demand
is one of the really strong things about
this. Again, with marketing retainer,
you're kind of just working for someone,
but with paper lead, you own the data.
You're selling them the leads or the
data. They keep coming back and that's
the best part about it. I'll jump into
Lead Base Pro here to show you guys
uh, just some wins recently of people
who have joined the group. Um, so let's
go to wins here.
Uh, by the way, you you can join Lead
Base free by clicking the link in the
description. We also have a pro group.
It's $99 a month. MD, I'm not sure who
this is actually cuz they're just MD on
here, but from no clients to two in a
week, one will ramp up fast. He likes
the trial batch. 2K bi-weekly for 50
leads. Shout out to Jacob Watson. He's
our sales extraordinaire. He makes sales
even easier because
he that's that's what he does. And so
again, Jacob joined in January. He's
done I think he did 160k in in April in
lead sales. And he's a coach in Lead
Base Pro
on every Wednesday he does a class. Uh
Raphael got 10.5k renewal and 17.5k
pilot. Uh Elia drove third customer in
counting. Business update from Matthew
King.
Closed fourth client total revenue
generated $5,000.
Client four closed. Uh third client
closed. Client two closed and paid. Two
more to close. So tons of wins here in
Lead Base Pro. Just want to show you
guys that quickly just to see to show
that I'm not a one-hit wonder. There's
other people doing this. This really is
easy to sell once you get the hang of
it. A lot of people that come in who
struggle with sales, I think just don't
get enough reps. And that's what Jacob's
really been focusing on teaching is get
in front of people and show them that
you've got you've got leads. They're
people people need those leads so bad
that once you start to act out of a
place of confidence because you have
your own lead generation site and you've
got this data you've got these leads
coming in, it's it is a really easy sell
once you get the hang of it. So the cool
thing about running a pay per lead
business is you own everything. And that
is really the power behind this. I
talked about this a little bit at the
start of the video. You own a website.
So again, you will own a insurance
website. One of my websites is called
insurancein.com.
Okay, so this is a lead generation
website that I own.
They can go through and learn about
insurance. They can fill out a quiz and
they can become a lead, a person, you
know,
potential lead. I also have funnels that
are attached to this website that I
build on other platforms that capture
lead data when I'm running my Meta and
Google and TikTok campaigns, whatever
whatever I'm running. So I own the
website. I own the data. I own all the
assets, the IP. I own the ad accounts.
So I own you know, I own the Meta
account, the Google account, the the
account, the Microsoft account. I I own
them and if someone stops buying leads
off of me, I still own that account,
right? Versus if I'm running ads for
someone else, they're like, "You're
fired." And they kick you out of their
account and you have nothing to show for
it. But a trained pixel and a trained
account is very valuable. No and I just
said this, no client account headaches.
Again, tradition traditional model, you
log into your client accounts, it's the
worst thing ever. Honestly, I hate it so
much. Paperly model, I have my own
accounts. I just did that. It just that
is such a big frustration when you're
trying to like help a business owner be
like, "Click there and add me." Okay,
yeah, click there and you spend 30
minutes trying to get into their account
just so they can fire you after a month.
Okay, it's silly. The best thing about
lead gen is you're building a valuable
asset over time. Again, every lead you
generate, every buyer relationship you
build, every dollar of recurring revenue
you create is adding value to something
you own. You own the website, I just
said this. You own all of the IP. That
is why Home Buddy was able to sell for
$190 million
because they had millions and millions
of leads that someone bought them for
the data. If you generate a couple
hundred thousand leads over the next
couple years, your company will be worth
a couple million dollars because you've
actually built an asset.
That is why this is very powerful. The
exit opportunity is real. So you're
you're building a systematized lead gen
business with again, with owned assets.
You've built the website, you've built
the funnels, you built the ad accounts
with trained pixels, which is not easy
to do.
Uh it takes takes time, it takes data
feedback to meta and Google. You can
exit these businesses. I sold my first
lead gen website for $650,000
because the industry we're in was kind
of crumbling. Uh it's a long story for
another video.
But we we were able to sell that website
and all the data because
again, we just wanted to exit and we
went and redid it three or four times
over at this point now. And so we built
an asset where that people wanted. You
likely your client is going to be the
best buyer of your leads or sorry, of
your lead generation website. And so
again, good good luck selling a an
agency where you have retainers. I mean,
maybe like a big corporate agency could
could sell if they had a ton of
different retainer clients, but this is
something you can do from your basement
like me. I live here in Vancouver,
Canada, and Lead Gen paid for my house
in an expensive market, which is nice.
But I was able to build all this just
from my home office with a very small
team. I have my business partner, Ryan
B, and then we have three people that
work for us. That's it. And they work
they're they're part-time. Like it's
pretty it's pretty chill compared to
retainers. I mean, I would say it's
probably 10x less work. In fact, the the
numbers I showed you in that in that uh
first opening of the video, $5 million
in leads sold, I spend an hour on that a
week. I'm not even kidding. I spend an
hour on that lead generation website a
week. If that, honestly. It's the
simplest path to a scalable business.
Again, you buy leads 50, sell for 100,
do it a thousand times, own everything,
exit when you're ready.
Sure, easier said than done. I get it. I
totally get it. But this model, it just
simply works. And the cool thing about
it is
in my opinion, it's AI-proof because
people are always going to need leads.
Uh I don't think that AI is going to get
to the point, at least in the next 10
years, where you know, a small business
or even some of the bigger aggregators
are going to be able to to generate all
their leads just by clicking a few
buttons with AI right in front of them.
There's still real people on the other
end of the screen um that are clicking
through our funnels, that are coming in
as leads. And so, for now, you need the
human touch. And you're learning sales,
you're learning marketing, you're
learning all these really important
things that are going to matter in the
next 5 to 10 years when I think a lot of
the jobs that, you know, maybe are
replaceable by AI will be replaced, but
operators who can run AI and use it to
generate value and build assets are
going to be who survive. And so, that's
why I love this model over the next 10
year got years. Guys, if you love the
video, please like and subscribe.
Comment below if uh you're on your own
lead generation journey, and make sure
to click below and join Lead Base free
because it's absolutely free. But if you
want more, you can join Lead Base Pro.
It's $99 bucks a month. You get access
to multiple weekly group calls where we
spend one-on-one time with you, and you
get access to multiple courses. We're
releasing some new course content that's
going to be freaking crazy using AI to
to run your lead generation business.
It's going to be nuts. Join below,
whichever one you feel comfortable with.
I'll see you guys in the next video.
