Hi, welcome back to this agentic pattern
series. In last part, we covered some
use case with agentic pattern from
single agent to multi-agent pattern with
sequential workflow agents and parallel
workflow agents. And in today's video,
we'll explore advanced patterns with
code example and demo to showcase review
and critique with loop agent,
hierarchical task decomposition with LM
agent, and agent as tool. So, by the end
of today's video, you will learn how to
design multi-agent system that gives the
agent the ability to iterate,
self-correct, and dynamically choose the
right tool for the job. All right, so
for the first part of today's example is
the loop review and critique pattern.
Then we design an agent system to plan a
trip.
What if you need the agent's output to
meet a certain non-negotiable
requirement? For example, you need to
plan a trip to an event, but the hotel
and event venue must be within 30
minutes of travel time. And in this
case, we can use this loop pattern, and
often implement it as a review and
critique workflow. And here is how it
works. So, first, we have a generator
agent that creates an initial trip plan.
And then we have a critique agent
evaluates that plan against our
condition. For example, if this travel
time is less than 30 minutes. So, if
this condition isn't met, the loop sends
it back to the generator with feedback
for revision. This loop will continue
until the plan is approved or we hit a
maximum number of iteration to prevent
infinite loops. And this is a form of
iterative refinement. So, here is code
implementation to demonstrate this
agentic pattern. As you can see, they
implement the critique agent with loop
agent and then put together the
generator agent and critique agent with
sequential agent. And now let's test
with 80K web UI by type 80K web. We will
type our request here and in the tracing
tab, you can see this loop in action.
The planner generates a trip and the
critique checks the travel time and
rejects it. And the planner tries again
with a different plan until it meet the
condition. And this is really powerful
when we need a task to be actually
meeting certain conditions. The
advantages of this pattern is that it
can ensure output meets specific quality
standards and any constraints. It is
helpful when we prioritize certain
criteria. However,
by getting into this many iterations, it
increases latency and cost for the whole
system.
And we need to be really careful
designing this exit condition, which can
add complexity to our system. So now we
learned this review and critique
pattern. The next is very common popular
one, which is coordinator router
pattern. And so far our multi-agent
workflow have been predefined with
sequential agent, loop agent or parallel
agent. You can think of this coordinator
agent as a smart project manager. They
analyze user's request and then
delegates to the correct specialized
agent from a team of experts. And let's
take a look at this example with
hierarchical task decomposition. This is
where a coordinator breaks a large task
into smaller subtask and delegate those
to the other agents. Imagine we have a
top-level coordinator agent and the job
is to plan a full experience. And below
it, we have specialized sub agent. We
have a food and transportation agent,
which is a sequential agent that we
built last video, and you can check this
link to review last video. We also have
this nearby places agent, which is a
parallel agent that we also built in
last video. We also have this trip cost
agent. And you can see in from the code
on the screen that we put the agent as
sub agent for this coordinator agent,
where we use LM agent to implement it.
Now, we can see it in action in ADK fab
UI. And if I ask the main coordinator
plan a trip to find a sushi in San
Francisco and find my way to getting
there,
this coordinator knows that this
requires both food and travel. So, it
delegates the entire task to this food
and transportation sub agent. And that
agent then ask you his own sequence,
first finding the food and then the
transport. Now, I can continue the
conversation. Okay, I also want to find
a museum and concert. The main
coordinator understands this new request
and then delegate it to this nearby
places agent.
And that agent then run its own parallel
workflow, searching for both at the same
time, and then summarizing the result.
The benefit of this design is that it is
extremely flexible, and it can solve
very complex problem by breaking them
down. However, it has higher latency and
cost because we use actual model cost
for routing, and this modular structure
can be more complex design and
troubleshooting. And now, let's get to
the last part of today's video, which is
agent as tool pattern. So, let's talk
about this subtle but very powerful
alternative to the coordinator, the
agent as a tool pattern. On a surface
level, it looks very similar to
coordinator.
You have a primary agent and several
specialized sub agent. But the key
difference is in control and state
management. In a coordinator pattern,
the main agent delegates the task, the
sub agent take full control and solve
its piece of puzzle. But in the agent as
tool pattern, the primary agent treats
the sub agent like simple stateless
tool.
You ask a sub agent to perform a
function, get a result back, and the
main agent retains full control and
manage the overall state. You can think
of it like a coordinator is a manager
who gives a project to an employee. And
that agent as a tool is a craftsman who
pick up a specific tool
and to do one part of the job before
picking up the next tool. And you can
take a look at how we rewrite this
coordinator example in the agent as a
tool pattern in the code on the screen.
All right, there you have it. We have
covered everything from the simple
single agent to the dynamic coordinator
pattern.
And each design has its trade-off
between control, flexibility, cost, and
complexity. And here is the summary to
compare those pattern.
So in summary, you use a single agent
for simple prototypes. You use
sequential and parallel agent where you
need a reliable and structured workflow.
And you can use loop where you want to
meet certain criteria and use a
coordinator or agent as a tool when you
need dynamic flexible routing to solve
complex problems. All right, I hope now
you have a much better understanding of
how to design and build your own agentic
AI system with different design
patterns. All right, thank you so much
for watching and see you in future
[music] videos. Bye.
