It is the most French software
used in the world and the least profitable.
VLC is a video player
entirely open source which is
used all over the world
Today. If you watch a video
on the internet, there is a part of VLC
behind.
It's funny, there are people who
They say no to VLC, I don't see it
But when you say no, it's the cone that
reads videos everyone understands and
People don't know that it's a
association under the 1901 law, everything there is
Just the most classic kind.
Based in France, based in France, it must
There are some pretty crazy things going on, though.
which happened around VLC. Seya has
used a fake version of VLC which
was reading the files on your computer. We had
The same problem occurs with Chinese people. We have
Videolan, which was banned from India
and I had to attack the government
Indian to unblacklist VLC. In
average, I'll take three letters
of lawyers per month. The first one, you are
trembling. Now, no
issue. The worst part is easy to find, that
Its name is Dolby. They're really
boxes, where there are more lawyers than
of engineers. They have techniques to
the line between a mobster and a mobster. We have real ones
With Li, we have real changes.
changes with new technologies.
Today, people don't realize
account. We are not 10 times more
Fast, 100 times faster, we are 100
billions of times faster. THE
computers have a growth in
absolutely mind-blowing power and
It's not over yet. And my main point,
That means we need to go back to basics.
Now, to understand this properly, he
You need to understand how it works.
How does this computer work? You
Do you have 3 hours ahead of you or not?
The first and most interesting step,
it's about understanding how it works
a transistor. A transistor is
party. Okay, hi Jean-Baptiste, how are you?
Well and you ?
Well, listen, I'm delighted to have you here.
on Generation V Self.
As you saw, that team there, we're going to
Thanks anyway, Clément. This is Axel
in this case
Matthéo but Axel behind who who has
tope. Did you see that idiot behind you?
Yeah.
Given the construction work, I think it's
the engineers from Free who are here. He
went and tried to buy them a cone
so
illustrate. You know it's a... it's
one is one, that was a real problem
because actually, when I am
Having arrived at the central school, uh, was it
There was a cult of the Cone and we had
there are often cults of the Cone in
schools, but not necessarily the
same sides. Yeah. Well, that's it.
really the sides of construction sites. And in
In fact, we borrowed from the
departmental directorate of
the equipment, the DDE of the 92nd district, a number
important to coes and there is a moment,
they officially complained to
the school. Yes, but there was, but I
I think that when I arrived at
Central, there was
300-400 students on campus, what and who
were obviously borrowed from the DDE.
And so at one point
borrowed
borrowed
at some point they were returned since the
It's a real loan, but a long-term one.
You know. I don't know if that's a loan.
I don't know. Yeah, we'll ask for one
judge. I think you know some, or you
You'd like to know some, anyway.
I would like to know about it. Uh, we're going to
to explain all this because there are
mysteries for those who don't know
the cone. Finally, everyone knows this
cone, but you, I'm going to you
Let's do it again. Uh, the church in the middle of the
village, the cone that is behind uh
Jean-Baptiste, uh, Kempf, our guest
today, uh, is a cone of
construction site, hence the famous orange cone
white orange, white orange. Uh and uh
and who represents who is the VLC logo
which will be one of the topics of the day.
VLC, that's funny, then there's...
There are people who say "No, I have
"VLC, I don't see it." I told them no but
Go ahead and set up your computer for me. And then in
They have VLC on it, that's all. It is
But what's extremely important is that...
Do you do it when I find myself, I do
confessions all over the world,
I find myself in the middle of India or
deepest part of China, and so on
talking about central France is not
Very clear. There are still some VLCs out there
some who say but when you say
No, it's the cone that plays videos.
Everyone understands.
And between 20 and 25% of the traffic that comes
on our web page it's the people who
They searched for a con player.
Huge.
In Google they type "con player" and...
It happens. So we're going to talk about that because
VLC is something amazing. This
What's funny is that we all have a
different perception of VLC because
I discovered it very early on in
download in download
borrowing films as you say by
going back to, uh, what were the
sites we used to borrow
films already Dony Casa.
Yeah Kazad. So there you have it, we were borrowing
There were many films at the time, but there
had no easy streaming options.
Okay, we're talking about illegal downloads.
It was very difficult to read them
on a player.
So today, it seems for everyone
a very simple world. You go on Amazon, you
Press play, you can watch it on Netflix or
On YouTube, you add more and then it works.
right away.
I even had a box of
the time when I still had two
engineers who worked full time
I think it's a VLC hack for
to be able to put
players on websites. Uh
In short, all of this, we'll go, we'll go
to tell this story which is when
It's quite incredible, perhaps even known to me.
ultimately, it appeals to the general public because
VLC, we don't always know that it's
French. Uh, very few people know that.
the most installed software. Uh
Well, what I'm saying is...
the most used French software
world
and the least profitable.
So after the question, it's even because
Because you are French, you will be American.
The question is, in fact, it's
probably the software
European most used in the world but
You see, you have Spotify, so... but you are
in the same order of magnitude.
That's incredible.
And people don't know that it's a
association. It's an association, the I01
everything that is most classic
What.
Based in France.
Based in France.
OK. So you're the president or
of which I am the president.
OK. And an association can have
Employees, employees, anyway?
No. None.
Because there is no income.
The income comes from donations.
OK.
And these are donations at a cost of €4 per donation.
PayPal, you know, because at the top of the
site, tuas tuas a little something and there you go.
And the income,
How many donations does that amount to per year?
It's complicated because it varies
a lot depends on when you do
releases. When we have releases,
We have more donations. Uh, but it's a little
near the Yeah. between €40,000 and €60,000 per
Yes, you see.
Ah yes, OK. I was thinking maybe 3
millions, though, out of 6 billion
installation.
Oh no, OK. But you are asking yourself
Not too much though. It's not like Wi
Wikipedia and everything. No, we don't do the
a crybaby, you know, like Wikipedia,
Help, we're out of money. Knowing
that, nevertheless, one needs to know in order to
Wikipedia is a bit of an exaggeration because
some of them, they don't need them except in
does their part, uh, which is
perhaps 20% of their budget
functioning. So, uh, I think no.
we decided to
Don't give Wikipedia what you say.
I'm not saying that, but I am saying that in fact the
The way they ask is not
does not meet their needs.
OK.
Yes, they have employees on the branch.
Yes, they have a huge number of employees.
It's a true American foundation. He
There are a really huge number of employees. But
I think the operating budget
According to Wikipedia, it should be 100-150
millions. Afterwards, given the impact they have
on the planet, it was very, very
cool. But well, we don't really like it.
this type of request. So we, we
Don't ask. So, we're going to talk about
That. We're going to talk about open source, we're going to
perhaps talk a little about French and
all of that, of a universe in which you
navigates. We're going to talk about what they say is Kyber.
Keyber
Kber. Yeah.
Kyber. So, your new start-up. uh
on which we will be able to announce two
Three small things, perhaps. Uh, we
will talk, uh, yeah, about video, videolan
of the evolution of all this. Uh, Kyber in 2
seconds, if I understand correctly, it's uh
Your goal is to limit, uh, the
latency between the time a video is
captured by a Sony FX3 that I have under
the eyes or I was talking to you all at
the time to we would like to test the
Black Magic for example, and the moment when
she arrives on a screen potentially
Wireless, that is. That
Actually, it's much more than that. Kyber
It's a control solution for
remote machine with the latency
weaker. So it's to control
uh, drones, robots, robots
surgical, humanoid.
So it's not just the lens, the
camera, it's also
actually, it's just that my
The point is that you're going to have more and more
more machines, more or less autonomous
whether it's a more or less
autonomous and so forth, whether it's a drone,
we are going to have more and more machines
semi-autonomous. That's because they can
to do things but they need
to be monitored in real time
because they are in space
public, or well, from time to time they
They're not doing well. So we need to start again
control. So we need to control the
remote machines and therefore it is necessary
check all the sensors. There is
the sensor, which is called sight, which is
the video that is the most difficult. But
Kyber isn't just in the video,
It's video, audio, subtitles, position,
IoT sensor. It's consistent streaming
multiple capture and also control.
So that means you control some
computers, uh, programs, uh,
AI agents, uh, drones, robots,
autonomous cars, uh, remotely
as if you were, as if you were next to me
from you. And the idea is actually the idea
Keyber's job is to make it happen.
The distance disappears. You have
the feeling that it's next to you and
Well, actually, it wasn't going well.
It's, uh, it's fascinating because it has
of the
almost philosophical aspects or in
In any case, it has an impact on the home relationship.
machine and why not machine machine
uh, very deep. That's exactly it.
because actually, uh, Keyber, but we
will be able to talk about evolution but at
The origin is a solution that is
to do a little cloud gaming
h
and that will turn into this and
obviously the final one is actually
machines that control other
machines and and and Kyber does that.
Okay, I'll take it, I have it, that's what
I realized something a little in China when we
So, you saw it, you didn't see the documentary that we
I'll send you the information about China. On
did a great thing, we did a little
tour and then you know in a
environment where there are drones,
humanoid robots
More and more of, well, there, I have
Didn't see any military stuff, but you
realize that I'm taking the
in the case of one, then afterwards, it will be
perhaps, in fact, this is quite virtual.
military field because they won't
Killing each other in drone combat doesn't have any
grander. This is what happens in
Ukraine, no less. You still have
now 5 km, a 5 km Omanzan
drone, though.
Yes, that's true. It's true. But you
said at one point they are they are
maybe a little less stupid than us and
so they will say to themselves, maybe they will stop
this carnage of this
Yeah no, I'm not sure. But in all
What's funny is that
so when you think of a field
of a battle of the future, you might say
"OK, there's a drone overhead."
And
that we will call."
Maship, by the way, there is one, but he
There are perhaps so many sint. OK.
who will do more than just film, as you say
but finally have thermal sensors
a whole bunch of sensors that are
why not olfactory sensory of
different ways and so on and so forth
who will himself engage in dialogue above with
satellites below with
Humanoid robots, autonomous tanks, and
Submarines, whatever, I'll skip over them.
And then you say, "OK, well, uh, it's a bit
as today there would be
Mothering that talks with people,
but here the drone's view
uh
It is, if you read it, thanks to Keyber by
example to all these uh robots that are
On the ground, it's the same view. It's a
one and the same vision. It's the big one
different from us when you have a
information from a Mership which is
above, he tells you, uh, look, 100 meters away...
On the right, there's a guy there, he is
hidden behind the embankment. There, you are there, you
Look, where are you doing that? At 100 m
RIGHT. No, no. No, to the left, to
Right there, no. You have the thing above,
You have the embankment, you can see it from above and
You know where he is, you know where you are by
in relation to him. But even without
to go to your battlefield, some
cars on a motorway.
Yeah.
Finally, you see, at some point, you realize
counts, finally, the number of cars that
You're going to, you're going to surrender
Consider that, in 10 years, in 15
Years ago, many people had a robot
humanoid for household chores.
Yeah, but you, well, you'd like that
to know how your mother or your uncle is doing
and so on because, well yeah, you're a
not far away. But actually, the robot actually
and all the sensors of this robot, see
robots in the house, in fact.
That's your view of what's happening for
your family who are with the
aging of the population. You
See, this is a real issue. So in fact,
Do you realize we're going to have a lot of
of machines, whatever the
definition of machines that are not
necessarily completely autonomous because
As you can see, it's been 15 years now.
and 100 billion or even 1000 billion
that we invest in cars
autonomous, they are still not
100% autonomous. H, and so in fact you have
lots of cases and then you also have lots
of things where, well, a really simple thing
podcast, but you see, you saw it clearly when
You do remote production, you know?
You have an event, I don't know...
advice, I imagine there is one
French Association of Surgeons
So I imagine they have a summit
somewhere and actually you arrive you have
10 people, you have one, you have four
cameraman, you have a producer and so on
and actually what costs you the most
It's not the equipment. The equipment costs
Nothing more, it's hotel nights.
to send people and send the
skill. But actually, you
to have two cameras, two people
who manage the cameras and everything is done at
distance. And so in fact you also have the
the fact that it's a projection is because
the projection in terms of skills.
He was doing that in Iraq 20 years ago
years already.
Yes, but you see, and to do it there
to have a latency, moreover. No.
Yeah, of course.
But, but so the topic here is actually
You see, it's the projection of
skills, you see. That's because you have a
expert and in fact he can't go to an
place because actually it takes some
Time costs money. Obviously,
We saw it with the surgery because
That's the most visible thing.
but you have lots and lots of other things
Or, you could just do nothing about your maintenance.
from your nuclear power plant, go
in places that are dangerous. In
In fact, there are plenty of places we'll go
actually just projecting people to
distance and then actually, you'll also
to project power, in fact.
That is to say, the computing power, uh
Well, 15 years ago Bobs said "You
Go do nothing more, everything will be on
your phone and actually you realize
already counts today that most of
your apps on your phone, actually
talks to a backend somewhere over
internet and that there are relatively few
reflection that is in the device.
Now, in addition to having AI where it
not only requires a huge amount of
computing power but above all
enormous access to data for
to get answers, in fact she won't
spin in your phone and especially
That's when things start happening with, well, your, your
smart glasses where you'll project
something in a telescope, you're going to
never be able to put the slightest
processing power. So that means that
The reflection will be done either on
your phone and stream on your
glasses, either in the cloud and streamer
You can see through your glasses. So in
In fact, you see, you have many uses for
streaming power, uh access
to machines that are remote or
access to skills that are at
distance. There is a number that is more
important than all the others when we
is an entrepreneur, when one manages a
company, it's the small number that
is in the bottom right corner of your invoice. THE
The problem is that behind this number,
There are countless others
numbers and what weighs on the days of
The delays, the numerous reminders, the
unpaid bills that are found
never in these emails, in short, the whole
administrative hassle, the kind that...
hates everyone. In 2026, billing
Electronic electronics become mandatory.
Forget the endless follow-ups, the
Lost PDFs, the paperwork that eats everything up
your time. And to be ready on the day
I propose one thing: choose
the electronic invoicing tool
The one that best suits you. And then,
no need to overcomplicate things because
that you have Conto, my partner who
is 100% compliant and already operational.
Conto is the French pro account that
I've been using it and recommending it for a while now.
always. More than 600,000 entrepreneurs
have adopted. And the advantage of accounting,
it's what ? and that you have a
A complete solution. You have
your professional account and your invoicing
compliant electronics in the same place
without paying for an additional tool and
You can create an invoice in one minute.
And then the follow-ups are done in one
click. Bill reconciliation
The transaction is automatic and in this
Use code 1850 for €50
discount on your subscription without
commitment. So if you too
do you want to focus on the good
Numbers, not paperwork, come on!
at conto. It's conto.com/facturation
q on to.com/facturation.
Okay, let's watch the episode.
Which explains, uh, so I, I, am full of
questions, but I didn't ask my first one.
question, but what explains all this,
So that's what we call primary
uh, uh, or cloud, that's it, right? SO
Uh, it's yes, it's no.
So yes, it's a bit
That's kind of the point, but actually
uh, on prime, that means it's
really physically linked to the closest
In fact. Um, and the cloud, that's...
the furthest place. But actually, you
You have plenty of ideas. Uh, there is
many questions about what we
called the ledge. Uh, that's all that
is, uh, uh, at the level of, in fact, the
telephone concentrator, huh, which
which is a central, uh, central fiber optic network.
uh, smart grids, think about it
uh, how does it work? So in fact,
You have plenty of uses where, precisely, we
is no longer in a vision everything is in
the cloud where everything is local, but uh
For example, you'll be able to...
You see, for example, the remark that you
dais sur uh you have a lot of robots in
at the same time, which are all more or less
autonomous, but they all send to
Even the first central player will think about it.
Well, this first point is going to be the
point one of the nerve centers even if
the person who controls all of this
In fact, she's at yet another point.
So you see, and the first point is
your what we used to call the edge.
All right. And so each time you can have
several levels of hedge, of
decision, of things with
and sensor aggregation. And in
using more sensors, more
machines together, you have a vision
better, and therefore you are more intelligent
with one, let's say the moership of the
moership, which is always a kind of
mega power plant, or rather mega data center
to a human. OK.
Yeah.
OK. I still think that always
In the end, you kill a human. In fact, it's
of human enhancement. It is
These are tools, these are tools
The best, what else?
H is like better hammers, you know.
But wait, but then you see then
No, but those hammers are brilliant. Me
I have a friend who makes some
professional pick hammers, you
see
and and and some real hammer tools
and so forth. The price of these hammers,
It's a fortune. And actually, yeah.
but in fact
What's it called? No box.
No, I don't remember, but he's just
That one in there isn't very important.
But you're testing this [ __ ] thing?
drill but it's a, it's a joy.
It's a hydraulic drill, I know.
Not what. It costs I don't know how much
thousands of euros, but damn, that's
It pierces everywhere. You never have any trouble, you
see. And so, in fact, you were
with your drill bit there in your wall
concrete. you struggled and
Yeah, but actually when you're your
Professionally, that's normal, actually.
to have better tools. Uh, the
advanced tools and progress, it is at
through the tools. You see, you are
used to a combine harvester, he you
Don't do things by hand. SO
Here we have a real change, we have...
real changes with AI. We have
real changes with new
tech with network coverage everywhere, right? Because
that 30 years ago, there was no
network. Now you're not feeling well when
You have no network. So, in fact, he
There's a change in tooling and Kyber
That's part of it.
Very clear. We'll come back to that. We're going
to delve a little deeper into this area because
I find it fascinating and I want to
to understand a little better. But we will
also to go back a little. Before
All of that, if you like, Jean-Baptiste Kempf.
I suggest you introduce yourself.
So, my name is Jean-Baptiste,
I'm at the best age, I'm 42. Uh
I am
Does that relate to the 42, or are you saying that because
Yeah, 42 actually, that's it actually
You'd tell me that next year too.
No, no, 42, you know, that's all.
lore actually uh around so uh
this crazy joke called The
Hchikers Guide to the Galaxy, eh who
is one that has one that has one that is one
a reference book for geeks, uh, which is a
absurd English book about, uh, someone
who, uh, so in French it was
translated first by the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
from Routard International, uh, but and to
one moment in fact there is there is there is
a computer that must respond to the
question of the universe, life and everything and
everything and so they build a
mega computer that calculates during
10,000 years and his answer is 42. So
It makes no sense, and that's the whole point of this thing.
is absolutely hilarious and it starts with
the earth is being destroyed because
They built a highway, uh
galactic and the Earthlings are
Not aware. And then there's him, a guy
who is a bit of a loser actually who who
is saved by a completely
delirious. And we tell him, "Well, yes, but
In fact, it was written at your town hall of
neighborhood, there was a sign that
explained that you needed to move your
planet because there was one there
had a highway and the guys he said
But which local town hall?
Well, you know, that quadrant there.
Alpha of the Sentor and in fact all of this
That's something, it's a bit like English humor.
Completely idiotic from the 70s and 80s.
it makes it quite difficult to be
unfortunately translated the translations
In French, there are plenty of
Jokes, but so there you have it, so that's it.
accessible, otherwise in English, well, that's it.
It's still simple, isn't it?
hot
It's tough to read, yeah.
No, it reads very well, but you have to
to have a good level of English because
There are lots of backstabs, but it's great!
and it's long
Yeah, but it's not a big deal.
You can read 100 pages out of 500
pages, the 12 volumes, in fact it was at
originally limited a radio broadcast
You see, he's paid by the line. Actually,
It's not of interest, but in any case
In this case, this story of 42 and in fact is
has become a reference for geeks.
So there's a joke, and actually if you
Look for 42, there are lots of people who
take some of that. So that's why
42 is the best age. Closing
the first parenthesis. Uh, so I
I am Parisian, I was born in
Paris. Um, I travel a lot, but I
I am still a Parisian at heart.
I'm a geek and a mod.
Ah good ?
Yeah, it's no secret. He even
dressed like a geek. I mean
This is important. There you go.
I arrived wearing a jacket anyway
just in case, but anyway, if he didn't know if he
The code was needed here, the code
In terms of clothing, I say, oh, that's hot, you
You didn't bring the tie, so oh well.
Then, we'll form a choir.
You'll never see me in a tie in my life.
For what ?
Well, firstly, for a simple reason, it's
that I hit a little too hard by
report for many, many reasons.
I hate it. I feel like I'm not
breathe and in fact never
making small, custom-made shirts, that
It's done, and it's not very expensive. It is
nice. That's nice.
You only wear a tie for the
Weddings, the enters?
Oh, well that's good then, that means that
You did it anyway.
Oh yeah, I do it.
OK.
Uh, and by the way, it's a joke.
done in several jobs when I
I was arrested and they offered me ties.
funny. So I have a tie
Cauliflower, for example. I hate the
cauliflower. I have a tie
cauliflower. Uh, you have everything you
hates in just one.
I have a tie
yellow orange and so on. And soon I
I'm going to have an orange VLC tie and
white. So there you have it. We get the impression
of the aviar.
Uh, yeah. So I'm an engineer, I have
In fact, I'm an entrepreneur, I've set up
full of boxes. Um, I'm very
curious. Uh
What do you think? I have two children.
That's about it. Roughly
All. That's already pretty good. That's already not
wrong. Listen, anyway, I am
Very happy to have you here. Uh, I
I will also thank Arnaud Laurent who
made this connection for us which
is my partner at OVNI. I'll make a
mini disclaimer. I believe it's a
first times, this is not the first
times. So that has nothing to do with it, and you
You'll understand very quickly, but uh, we
we are investors via the fund, uh
in Kyber. Uh, and we'll come back to that later.
the time, but it's not at all the
That's why I'm inviting you. I
I would have invited you otherwise, of course, and
We will soon understand why. I
I think we've already understood. Uh
It all started, in fact, so...
earlier, but uh, this whole adventure
The geek thing started, uh, once you
has landed, at least the
VLC section, uh, central if I understand correctly
Understood.
So yes, for VLC, but
Actually, well before that, I...
My parents are teachers
And, uh, my father is a teacher of, well, he
was now he is retired
professor of macroeconomics at
the university.
OK. So, not scientific.
macroeconomics is still a lot
of math.
OK. That's still macroeconomics.
theoretical. anyway
I listened to a debate recently about the
the scientists who were talking about soft
science and hard science, and who said
No, but seriously, you're definitely on the hard side here.
science because you're talking about math but
he said when you talk about there was
a whole thing about, you see, the
The economy is precisely, uh, this
science that is somewhat in between the two
that is to say, you are actually between the
social sciences and mathematics
But there you have it, and they were saying that
It couldn't be between the two, it was
either they were hardcore scientists
but
Yeah, they're right. But I want
To say, it's not psychology,
It's not about long texts and so on,
that's still
Hot math, that's what it is.
And to laugh at social sciences, you
see. He's talking nonsense.
Yeah. No, no, this is it, and so I
I was born in '83 and so my father was
on the internet before the web.
OK.
He had emails in the 80s.
Yes, that's normal. And I
I even remember him going to telnet
on the Parisian university server
whose name was Asterix. Don't ask me
Why do I remember, but it's a
something I remember and he was going
check your emails via the command line
From your home. From your home?
No
no, often from the center of
you were not connected at home when
even ? So, not right away, but we
was connected, uh, you see, when, when
back when we had 9600 models, you
see. So it's still
Oh, much earlier. It's hot, isn't it, because
that when you rest put back in these
Back then, I really, uh
I discovered the internet in '96, '96, '97, that's...
smashes the head. That is to say, there is
At one point, you think, "OK, wow, how
Wait, how did we ever live without that?
What, my, my? I remember, I was 5 or 6.
years old, so we're in '88 or '89. I remember
to go, uh, to my office
father, uh, in Tolbiaak there, you know, the
university, that horrible thing, that thing
brown, uh
and to play, uh, MS-DOS games, you
see. Um, and my dad buys the first one.
The computer we have at home is running MS
DOS 3.
Yeah, I had that too.
You see,
Amstrad PC 152.
And so there you have it, so I find myself in this situation.
Like that, but it's important because
I actually find myself, uh, during my
6th. Um, my father is leaving in the year
sabbatical like many
From academics, he goes to Florence. SO
Um, my family, so I have three sisters,
So there are 6 of us. We're going to Florence for a year.
during my 6th grade. And so, well, obviously,
I don't speak Italian because
Yeah, I learned Italian this
that year, but before that, you see, I
I wasn't speaking. And so I go back to school
French school of Florence and the school
French woman from Florence at the time then
She has changed a lot, but in 6th grade we
It was 10 and that was still pretty good
"Yeahs" from the upper middle class
Italian Florentine who liked
to say that they were doing
French, what else?
and I had a teacher who was absolutely
He was great as a math teacher and I was when
even generally already quite good at math
And so, in fact, I was bored, and so he
made me program, and so I
programmed therefore in
in 6th grade and I loved it. So in fact
when we returned to France during my
5th, uh, so now we're getting closer.
93 94 uh there are people who have uh
who started to have more computers.
My father had a laptop in
Italy, you see. So a laptop to
that era. in 12 kg,
Not too much, but it was more like 10 inches
passive matrix. The thing was, it was too much.
And actually, I started to geek out
working on that, and then we
had a computer back in the Windows era
95, you see, a Pintium 90 really in
And before we had, yeah, a 486 DX, you
see. So, it was really stuff
very very slow, very very
Pum, I had forgotten that term.
Yeah, you see, we're really on the topic of...
very old. But the result, uh
I'm quite quick at tinkering and I have
spent, uh, quite a bit of time, uh, during
My high school, actually. I bought myself
first computer. So I was doing
anything to recover money for
buy a computer. I have
built my own computer like we used to do in
the era. Um, and I have a lot
tinkered with Windows and so on. SO
kind of white. Ah yes, of course.
Yeah, because he's done quite a bit
things a little before that, but
Yes, a few years older than you. But
No, but I mean, it's funny.
because he worked in the
local shops, he repaired the
People's computers, he was setting up
Computers for everyone.
And above all, I had a specialty,
it was
He was in the video, that's why.
that I told you I had a specialty,
It was about, uh, retrieving the files
erased.
Ah, that famous one. You can sell this for a lot
That.
So back then, you see, for example, I
I found myself dealing with an SME twice.
who had lost all his accounting records and in
Actually, it's not very complicated. You had
Some rather obscure software, but if you
He knew how to use it, it wasn't that...
very complicated. And I did that and I
I finally found myself, you see, I was getting paid
500 francs for a day's work.
I was, I was, I was 16 years old, you know. Oh
That was great. Uh, and wait.
Wait, wait, wait, I have to do
a pause on the deleted file, uh, 20
30 years later. But, uh, what is the
Is it possible, uh, can you?
recover deleted files uh on
a hard drive and but like, uh, during
How long and if you what
the fact that
because they still need to be erased
?
But in fact it's never erased, one
file.
OK.
In fact, the file is not deleted
actually on the hard drive
At the time, people were talking about rotating hard drives
magnetic
that when you rewrite over it. OK.
So for example, during it's by
For example, the FBI had a technique
uh, for the discs, so they are
rotating magnetic disks. It's necessary
rewrite seven times on the disk to
to be sure that all the data and this
what we call a real eraser but a
true erasure because in time
That's normal, actually you don't do it. What you
Erase, that's the front door. SO
it's like if, for example, you see for
They're telling you to delete this studio. Imagine that
You have the ability to destroy something
thing.
Um, what a computer does is
that he destroys the door. But the studio
is there, so if you know, well you break through
the door and you find yourself there.
Interesting. But what is
Interesting, that's kind of what we're going to
Speaking today is also about...
Everything you've done, and that's the proe
from Central and Polytechnique,
I can imagine that a little too, but it's just that
you are in universes where
You're not using code overlays.
Finally, you're really in the you
I potentially understand quite a bit of the
the relationship between the software and the
hardware, that is.
It's actually one of my great
topics right now because we
arrives with AI and the impact of AI on
about the developers and my point
The main thing is, we need to go back to
bases. That is to say, in fact now
To understand properly, you need to understand
what it works, how it works
that's what the schools of 2000 of 2010 to
2025 or from 2005 to 2025, she
You weren't teaching that anymore? If
No, never, but they never have
It's practically never done, actually. By
For example, I learned how it works
a computer really because in
parallel to central, I made a
research master's degree at the laboratory which
It was called the LRI in Oris, uh, which must
it is now called Paris Saclet. Uh
and it was an architecture course
computers. And besides, I
I hold a conference regularly, which is...
I spend 3 hours and I'm going to do some electrons
on the computer. Because in fact when
you ask people how it works
A computer, that's the answer.
So actually yes, they are 1s and 1s
zeros. All right. And those 1s and 0s, actually
well, it allows us to represent all the
letters. So far, so good. And like that and
that makes very... that makes very...
very quickly on these 1s and 0s. And so, as
You can get computers for that. There,
You go, "Wait, how many are missing?"
What steps are there between the two? You were making fun of me
"From me?" Actually, it's not that
It's more complicated than that. It's very complicated to
to truly understand. But just la la la
general knowledge,
She's not here. And that's annoying.
because to be good, you need
understand what is happening. And that
It's a theme anyway, that's what
Regulating things in my life is that
I like to understand. I am
someone very curious and uh well I
can spend a lot of time trying
to understand things that I understand
not. Um, I had some friends a while ago.
who called me Wikipedia but uh but
That's actually true for many of
topics, in fact, when I get into them, I get into them
Put uh strong. And uh
How does a computer work? You have
3 hours ahead of you or not? the 2 minutes
What.
You can't do it in 2 minutes. But
What's important to understand,
That's because there are several steps.
And the first and most important step
What's interesting is understanding
How a transistor works.
A transistor is roughly a
switch that you control remotely with
an electric current. That is to say, at
Instead of putting your finger, it's that you
send a current
electric. If the electric current
It arrives, the switch is flipped.
That's about it. And thanks to that, you
are capable of doing
what is called in algebra
ball, the algebra of 1 and 0, we are
capable of performing operations
logics. That is to say, roughly speaking, if
I'll give you one, well, you have
two inputs and one output. If I tell you
Give me 1 and 1, and I get 1. If I...
It gives a 1 and a 0, and it outputs a 0. So
These are what we call doors
logics. So the door is, the door or
Mainly, the door, no.
No, the door, I'm telling you 1, you tell me
Answer zero, you see.
OK.
And so there are a few doors and
In fact, when you combine them, you are
capable of doing
an adder.
So an adder is a thing, well
That's what you know how to do. 1 + 1, that
Made 10.
Sorry, that makes 10, but so that makes 10.
because we are in binary. All right.
10, one, one unit, one ten, in base
One second makes it deh
SO
You are capable of doing addition.
Once you know how to do
additions, well actually you know how to do
subtractions because in fact one
Subtraction is addition, a whole
slightly different. And once you
You know how to do addition, you know how to
multiplications. Multiplication
it's just doing a lot, a lot of
addition. Division is a subject
It's very complicated, but at least the principle is there.
of the Euclidean division that you were told
learned in, uh, I don't know, I imagine in
CM1.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
You can do it. It's very long but
But it can be done. So you know how to do it
simple mathematical operations
but especially from the moment you know
You know how to do subtraction.
a comparison.
OK.
Yeah. Then, in fact, to see if two
Things are the same, you just need
check if you do the first one minus the
second and that makes zero.
easy. From the moment you know
make a comparison
and that you define the letter A as
This is issue number 65, but we'll see.
The sheet and the letter B are the same
letter + 1 actually your text you know
process your text. So that's it, actually.
are you going to take some kind of table
of comparison and in fact a
A computer will never understand
Letter A. He still has the code 65.
He knows it's the letter A.
And so, you digitize everything and everything, you
You say, well, for example, the pixels, the
The colors are red, green, and blue.
and it ranges between 0 and 255.
Uh, so that corresponds to 8 bits.
VB, did you see that go red and green?
blue. Yeah,
red green blue. Yeah. And so, as
That makes it with 8 bits, so 8
1 or 0 x 3 for the three colors, you
is capable of displaying all the
colors.
OK?
You see? And so everything works as
Then you do the addition. SO
you know what something is
One thing is darker than the other, well you
Perform a subtraction. Is it that
something is brighter than
The other one? Well, you do a subtraction.
Are you going to, and therefore you are
capable of performing the processing and
from the moment you do the
processing, you can add the la
subtraction, you can do
one, and therefore comparisons, you can
to use logic. You can say if
Subtraction is never positive.
Go do that. In the other case, go do
One more thing.
I learned that. Yeah. If else.
Exactly.
You learn that when you do
coding basics. So if, then yes.
Well, just with that, actually. So this
What's happening is a jump
But there you have it. And once you have
You've practically got that figured out, you've almost got it figured out
all the calculations. There you go, that's your
first block. Your second block is
memory. You want to be able to store a
information because once you have
So, you have memories that we
primarily calls register
it doesn't matter. We'll use the memory app and...
done with in these memoirs, you will
put
a number and in the memory of the next one
Bett
next to. Or okay. Much better. And
Then, you do your... you do your... you do your...
additions. Once you have that,
You have what's called a clock, a
blister and all the
n microseconds, you look at the output.
All right ? Because obviously all of that,
These are currents that propagate and
Obviously it's not instantaneous. That
does not exist instantaneously in physics.
Al, if you manage it, call me because
that you are the richest person
to the world. But so, in fact, what you
Do it, it's because you have your connections with
your memoirs and your additions and all
THE
all the Ns, all the blisters, all
all the interactions, you
check the output. OK?
Now that you know how to do that on
the addition, what you do is you
has another switch which will be the
control selector. He will say no
Now I do A-B.
No, I'm doing A + B. No, I'm doing A.
x B.
You enter a third dimension
What.
And in fact, that's the dimension we
calls it the control dimension.
OK. And so, in fact, you imagine that you
See, you have, you have, you have your two
Registers, you have a block that knows how to do it
all my operations and you
has an exit that is on the other side
Well, you say you give operations, you
This is your operation selector.
because what's actually happening is that
your tone
your system, so your chip actually
It performs all the additions at the same time.
What you're doing is just
select
Which one is it that interests me? OK.
So. Once you have that, well you
So, use what's called language.
machine which is in fact explaining it
what are all the operations to
do it and you move forward, give instructions to
each version of the clock.
So. And so that's computer science.
The 70s and 80s. We make
programming, therefore, in machine language.
We call it an assembler and then come
So, human languages, where precisely
You had, you wrote in English
a little higher level and we have a ce
what we call a compiler, a small
program that transforms this into language
machine
and then you add layers and you
Add layers and you add more
layers because and to get away
except that today
Well, actually all the upper layers
Your daughter can do it. So if you don't
I don't understand what's happening down there.
It's very complicated to understand and
to master. And the hot cups, I
Translate it and tell me if I understood correctly.
huh, but the heat strokes, that's the
It's really the basic software.
That is to say, uh, when you were doing
uh, so there is, there was, there is
different levels of software. There is
often we talked about we talked about
frontend, backend, you had some
languages ​​and these languages ​​in fact they
had a tendency anyway more
you move forward in time to simplify
enormously. Uh, so, uh, finally, me
I arrived even though I hadn't done any
from engineering school to starting to code
on fairly simple languages.
I did a little HTML, but anyway
It was almost too much, then too slow.
And then, there you are, and then you arrive.
on things and then now you have
this is what is called vibe coding. I have
Antonica received it there, in fact there are more
language. Finally, language is...
natural language, so you are, you speak to
You tell the machine to do this, do that, and
She understands you
so that people understand, you see
So when you have languages, therefore
low levels for example each line that
You write this, it will generate between one and 10
instructions
h
machine instruction. So there you
You understand, you're really at the closest point.
of the machine, that is. So no, the most
"Close" is when you write in language
The machine we still use with VLC
because we need the
better performance.
OK.
Finally, because you're going to be
And then when you go back up, you'll
in languages ​​such as JavaScript,
Each line will be dozens of
thousands of instructions. And when you are
In vibe coding, we're talking about hundreds of
millions of instructions in language
machine. That's what you're generating.
something that will generate something that
will generate.
So you move away from the machine to
each time
and so you lose in pure performance. And
Anyway, we have computers
so powerful, as I recall
that, roughly speaking, we sent people
on the moon with whatever you have
calculator. Casio,
Not even. But no, no, the
calculators all for there are very
for a very long time. Today, we...
People don't realize. On
We're not 10 times faster,
100 times faster, we are 100
billions of times faster. That is to say
that computers have a
absolutely powerful growth
mind-blowing, and so, uh, and it's not
finished and and and so in fact well you didn't
needed because it's much more
It's ultimately quick to program in a
high-level language because
Obviously, it's easier.
Unfortunately, that means you
Lose performance, you lose
optimization, and so you're going to go there
search after. And understand what is happening
pass, it's important because
And for me, it's true, not even
Not even in computer science, but it's true.
on the whole body of knowledge
human. When you have some ar which is
capable of aggregating a huge amount of
knowledge and giving them what this
who values ​​learning by heart
It descends towards zero. What is
The important thing is to understand what is happening
pass. What's important is
to learn how to learn. For me, it's this
that I, that's what I often say in
As for me, I didn't learn any math in prep school and
of physics. In preparatory school, I learned
to learn, and that's really
important because, uh, things will
it will accelerate even further, and so you won't
to be able to control everything. But
today, someone who is a little
Thanks to AI, he will be able to
Not becoming an expert, but understanding very well
quickly, a topic that should have been addressed
years before understanding and
And you see it very quickly, that's...
But besides, maybe you can
become an expert faster anyway
Also
Also. But in fact, there is a lack
absolutely everywhere. That's what we
calls for grey literature. You have
THE
What is Comand's name? I don't know anything about that.
Any topic, I don't know. There
Metaphysics for Dummies.
Hm. and you have metaphysics tests
And in between, well, you have nothing. You
Look at me, I'd love to have 1000 pages!
You see, you take 1000 pages, that's
Alright. 1000 pages where he explains
all the math or the whole great empire
Roman, where you actually go.
account that you see you have you have a
about twenty large subjects and
You think to yourself, well, actually, if I had 1000
pages that give me a summary of what
We need to learn from culture. G is
That's amazing, it doesn't exist.
It will indeed happen with the LLMs
NOW. And then you can, you can
ask questions by saying listen, it's
Those are still certain manners.
to learn about LM which are increasingly in
more common. That is to say, consider that
I am a 10-year-old child.
Explain metaphysics to me. After you
Go tell him, consider that I am in 3rd grade
Give me more details and then you'll...
raise it a little.
Yeah, but you see, for example, it's
It's the same remark, you see.
I had a question the other day about
Greek myths.
H
Damn, GPT is asking what the 10 are
greatest Greek myths. It's super
simple and it allows you to do so whereas before
you had to look in books and
etc. So this is for people who
are fairly educated, fairly
intelligent,
curious, I think curious
all those people, actually, if I ever tell you
Damn it, I want to understand
I don't know about everything, let's just say...
Here's the history of the Roman Empire,
Well, actually it's very hard to find one
something that, in 400 pages, is roughly
something that you are in a week
gives the main points. I don't have
need to know exactly what happened
past but I need to have some
big concepts. Same thing in
philosophy, you see, I'm sure that in
1000 pages, you can give yourself a...
first pin and that doesn't exist. You
See, you have what you did in
terminal and you have expert tips
You. You have a pardon, yeah. You have a
The peculiarity is that, well, you me
the clip on the computer, but
uh uh you said it earlier, you
I like to understand. So in all
the professional fields then, you me
You might tell us a little about the staff,
perhaps on your children and so on,
How are you? How far have you gone? But
when you need to create an invoice or the
Compa, uh, your accounting, you're the first one?
The first assessment you made, you have
Made it yourself?
Yeah.
All alone. All alone. The most important thing
[ __ ] of the earth.
Actually no, but it's really great.
It is
That's true, but actually I like it
to understand and I like to know what
I ask people. H, so you see by
For example, I can tell you the first
box that I dropped off, well, I went
to the commercial court with the documents
there for video labs. I made myself
rejected four times, what. I didn't have the
good stuff, I didn't have the right thing and
etc. I made my first
with my Ursaf declarations in hand, my
first payslips, my first
accounting and so on. Is it today
I do it like this? Definitely not.
You see, there's a formalist, you
Do things automatically. But at
At least I know what I'm asking for. I
You know why I'm asking, you see. Uh
you see, for example, compared to
our politicians, uh, in I, he doesn't
even the same ones at work, they don't
They don't understand half of things, you
see. What are arcos, what are actions?
Why are there rates A, B, and C?
What are the differences, etc.?
You see, they have an idea, you see the la
We are being told about simplification, the idea
it's about simplifying the payroll form by
makes you understand what's behind it.
This is important. That doesn't mean he
You have to do it every time, but that
means that you understand the nuance
and you'll get a better grasp of the subject. And
It's true that, well, I did it, I did
does this a lot in chemistry, in
medicine, in biology, which is not
Too much, but you also see, I did
a lot of pharmacology while
I really do make my friends laugh often.
my doctor friends because they tell me
"But how do you know this name of this
medication. But actually, I took this
habit but also on
there
legal patent. You see, for example, I... I...
one of the things I'm doing right now
I am paid by some
American lawyers to destroy
patents.
That happens to me regularly.
What does it mean to destroy a
patent? Actually, it's uh you you are
expert to say that a patent uh is
null,
It's worthless. And in fact, right now
uh, you see, there are attacks
patents in the United States, that's...
hundreds of millions. Um, so you are
expert witness. Uh, I even recorded it
once, uh, uh, for a court
American, uh, in front, you know, with the
thing, objection, objection, the thing of
films, uh, precisely to explain that
This patent is worthless because I have this.
I have this information, and so on.
So that's
I didn't really have a choice when I
I arrived on VLC and that's it
The important thing is that I found myself
in fact, at the head of this project at the beginning
2007. I arrived in Central in
2003 and it's a project that existed before
but I arrived in a position of responsibility
of the project on January 1, 2007.
There was a lot to do in terms of communication, of
marketing, motivating teams. There's
had more teams, there were two
people using VLC at the time.
Yeah. So, having legal problems,
financial problems and in fact you
There is no manual. So today, you
has much more manual than that than to
the time, but you didn't know that. SO
So, what are you going to do? And likewise, you
See, I know all the
You often receive subsidies, there are
people who call you. Yes, we're coming to you.
help with intervention strategy and
etc. And then I arrive and I go well
I did a C, an EMI, an uh, a
AMI, a FUI, I did JI, I did a
PIA, I did a quick DGA and so on
And I write my report, I do it myself.
and so forth, and they go ah
Thank you, goodbye.
But knowing that I know which one is
a little bit of a subsidized shelf and I have
made some moussi. So, here's the thing...
The thing is, I find that really the thing
the most boring person on earth. But it's
Yesterday, credit was given for a search. June
innovative company. What did you tell me?
Flee. I don't have that one. You see,
single interministerial fund.
OK. Me, I've done, you see, some things,
There are some you don't know because
The FSDP, for example, is
No, but I did something that
Her name is Riam.
Strategic Fund for Development
from the press or
Riam. So that's something that depends
from the national film center, uh, which is
So I was looking for one, I don't really remember which one
What. Um, I did something that
It's called Rapide, which means diet
support for dual innovation. YOU
are more than a million per month at
Watch my videos. 90% of you
You are not subscribed. So, I'm going to tell you
asking for something because after 8 years of
generation of Tursal, this project, is
the project of my life. Every week
My team and I are giving it our all to
to find the best guests, for
to inspire you and to get the most out of it
learning opportunity. For what ?
Because my deepest conviction is
that you need to use your brain time
available on more content
clever. This is important to me
that this content is available
free of charge. So, what I'm going to tell you
Asking is simple, just subscribe. For
For you, it's just a click. For us, that
It changes absolutely everything. The more we have
The more subscribers here, the better the
content, guests, productions
and therefore the value that will be brought to you.
It's now. Must. But you see,
I could provoke you a little
about that. Uh, so, uh
There are two things, that is that on the
The fact of understanding everything, in fact, I
sharing, that is to say that I love it, you
see, me deconstructing
for example in sports, a passion of
running or there you go and tell you "OK,
Wait, the new modes
training, how does it work
rather than going there with brute force,
try to understand what you're doing
A lot of, well, I've made episodes
that in terms of basic endurance,
that thingamajig, that fascinates me and
That's what I do quite a bit in this
podcast.
However
and I understand that there may even
a form of anxiety in thinking there is
In this thing, there's a blur
artistically, I trust
someone, I don't care, I don't have the
time. And so there are people who there
to people who go for it and who manage to
to go very fast while saying to oneself "Me, I
I'm going to take this highway, I
I don't understand." Exactly everything in the
details around me. However, uh
However, it works and there are some
others, and besides Elon Mus, whom we
is part of it, it includes a lot of
things down to the smallest detail and at
Neuralink and SpaceX, etc.
I'll just end my question there.
We were just before, on you me
I was saying that you
on the, on forgiveness, yes, on the
funds. So the funds are still there
Zs. There are also many who
They're actually saying, you know what? Me, the Zs
I don't even want it. because it's too much
tiresome. It depends on the bureaucrat, on the people
who decide whether or not they give me
The stuff and I don't know what. And so
I prefer to move forward alone in the private sector
uh, and make my own money in this
capitalist and liberal system rather
rather than going to try and beg for
aids. Uh, uh, and there you go. And so, uh
That's funny, I'm just putting this out there. But
Yeah. So it's a very good one
question and I will answer you that I have
I did everything.
I made some boxes. So here, I have to
This is my 11th or 12th box, huh. I have
I made boxes where I used full bootstrapping.
Not a single bit of help, nothing, and it works.
I have boxes or, uh, in particular
some
So bootstrap means that it is
self-financed. You haven't raised any money.
You put your money in, you are, you are
So there you go, and you didn't get any help, and so...
So, you sell your services, you live on
yourself. I have a company called
Videolabs, which employs most of the
core developers of VLC, roughly the
half of the VLC developer teams who
So this is the first box I have
Created. And in fact, there's a part here
which is kind of like, I mean VLC, so it
has a somewhat public interest party. SO
I think it's morally normal.
OK to go ask for some
grant. When I say a little bit of
subsidy for me there's something that
What is very important is that it is necessary
never let your subsidies be
beyond 15% of your budget
functioning.
That's an arbitrary 15%.
Yeah, it's arbitrary. Don't
Actually, you shouldn't, there have been quite a few
start-ups that are found in the
In the case where you finally see it was almost 2
a third of their budget and that's very
embarrassing.
I have boxes that I made where I have
fundraising, uh, and now I'm doing it again.
even with such American funding.
So you see, I've tried pretty much everything.
fashions. I created assaults, I have
I managed real estate investment companies (SCIs), I created companies in
Germany. I have a company in Germany,
I did some research on credit.
Germany, by the way. So you see me
I have no problem watching a little
All. So that doesn't shock me. I
I really like people who are
capable of saying that they do
everything by themselves and that they don't take
help. The remark which is the second
The observation you make is, in fact, that she is
What's interesting is that today I
delegates a lot, like a huge amount
but that's because I have a small
at least an idea of ​​what they do
people. And besides, the people I
They recruit people who are better
than me. I have people around me who
are much smarter than me, but
I at least have a fairly clear idea of
what they do. You see, what you
I was saying about Redlon Max, what, even if
I don't really like the comparison. Uh
That is to say, really, yeah, well
you see, uh, when I talk to my
accountant, obviously I don't have his
level, but that means that in
In a few minutes, I can arrive at a
level of conversation which is good
level and without being misled. But you
You see, what I often say is that
The goal is that in each area,
you are at the master's level
master's degree in all fields. Result,
That means you can talk to a
tessard.
OK. The question is, when will
Does that stop, as Aurels would say? No
but because I obviously share I
I'm being provocative, but I share this
that you say. That is to say, you take
all these professions that surround us here
Today. In fact, I've done them all.
all alone before.
No, no, but I'm finishing, you see. Uh
I have those cameras we were talking about.
studied myself in minute detail
details. Finally, which ones were needed?
How to use this microphone, how to...
He installs it, how exactly up there,
Why are there signs?
isophonic and who or where do you find them
places and how much it costs and how you
things, I can go quite far but
You see, I'm taking the sign
isophonic or even better the
camera. There comes a point when I stop and
I'm not trying to understand how
works the cosmos sensor or the
thingamajig because finally I could go
You can see, there's no hunger.
In fact, in all of this. You see what I
I mean
In fact, yes, there is an end because in
It happens when you go down at some point, well
You're getting into physics, basically.
Yes.
So in fact there is an end. What this
What's even more troubling is that there
there are areas where I know nothing you
see. And actually it's the people who...
they say "Ah, but JB, do you have an opinion on
lots of things and then they told me
They say so, but you haven't said anything yet. Well, in
I don't know. So when I know
You can't hear me. You, by
for example, in science
humanities, psychology,
uh, lots, there are lots of things where
Honestly, I have no idea. Does that frustrate you?
Uh no, because I think that at one
moment in my life, I'm going to have
need and so, well, at some point I'm going to
to delve into certain areas, but there is
full of areas
that I don't know at all.
And what I love is realizing that he
There's something huge I haven't seen.
How did you learn to be a dad?
like everyone else later in life. Uh
that is to say, for me it's my
That's my feeling and I have the impression
that it's kind of the feeling of not
bad of friends. I think that we
Don't talk much to the future father about being
Dad, because frankly, for it and it's
That's normal, right?
when you are a woman and you are
When you're pregnant, they prepare you, then you have
At least something that moves, you know?
for a few months. What I'm saying
For most dads, it's just yeah
Don't worry if you don't realize
that you are a father until 15 days after the
Birth, don't worry, it's normal. And
Actually, yeah, we're preparing a little bit.
but when you have that thing there which
starts screaming in your arms
It's done, and well, there's no one to...
to help you. Ultimately, it's just you.
That's not something you're talking about, by the way.
with your father, too much.
No, because we're not used to it.
It's not, it's
You say it's normal. I'm not sure that
That's normal. That needs to change
A bit like that.
Yes, but it's cultural because I
Saying that, wait, excuse me,
Excuse me, this isn't normal, but it's
cultural. We don't talk much about our
problems between men.
It's especially changing our generation,
our generation, the next generation.
But it's true that we can't manage it, we
Don't bother preparing, you see. And me very
Finally, you see, it's very
It's very hard, I say that to quite a few people.
Future dads, you know, up to a
months after the birth, you don't have
I realized you were a dad, don't worry
No, that's normal. So I think finally
For me, it happened a little more often, I think.
quickly, but, but, and the second
The point I'm making is that you know if
At some point you feel like throwing it away
your kid screaming out the window is
a normal feeling.
Don't do it. No, I'm telling you, he doesn't
Don't do it. That's not normal.
That's not OK.
Actually, that's not it. That's what being
Dad, that's great and it's going to bring out
positive emotions from you and
negative things you've never experienced
Before. It's a fantastic adventure. Uh
I love it, I play with my
my children. Um, I spend a lot of
time with them. But you're not ready.
But what you're saying is interesting.
because you didn't think about it
at least before this expert assessment. Essay
I tried it, but it fell through my fingers.
I tried.
I was told there's a website I have
Forgotten who owes who web quebeca. No
No. a Quebecer, uh, whose name was a
something about growing up, I don't know what. Finally I
I don't remember anymore, but anyway
good or not good
which was very good
I was given it
but it was useful to me once that
it was once we had the baby in
done before it was too conceptual
You see, it's done. So maybe and and
It's funny when talking with someone
like the metaphysics you were talking about
Maybe earlier there won't be
necessary or super good literature
for afterwards men are this
Cultural issues are also disinterested.
before birth.
Yeah, but I tried, you see. OK,
But I did have some...
Dad's blocks that I found very
cool, which was notably a block of
timeline during the first during the
pregnancy, you see. OK. Watch out, he's going to
to happen, and so on. But it's...
Quite funny now. Uh, now
I, well, you see, often I have some
friends, girlfriends who are
When they are pregnant, I name them, I talk to them
of them, how many SA and so forth.
I know, uh, you see, for example, I know
It's very good that today you can
I can give birth at 24 weeks of gestation. Uh, we
managed only from 28 onwards, actually, you have
virtually no more problems
theratogenesis. I know that, for example
uh, the problems, uh, in 4, 6 and 8
with your vitamin deficiencies
B5 and so on which can enf
You studied pregnancy, the part
scientist ?
Yeah, but I did that afterwards.
OK. Finally, I did it a little while
but actually I retested it mainly
for the second pregnancy which was
much more, well, much more
Funny because I actually knew
Finally, you see, there are many more
But on the other hand, I was super excited
But you see, it's not the same thing.
learning to be a dad and then especially
I have parents
who are finally I have I have parents who
are still very present, uh, and and
Then I have three sisters, you see, uh
big small
uh, one large one and two small ones. OK.
Small
It's funny being in the middle of three sisters
anyway.
I have two older brothers. So that's
that's why me
Actually, it's very honest, he
It's very pleasant.
No, but OK
you are you are you are the only guy so in
You have it, you see, prince
not the prince but tuas tuasas you have
special privileges that I did not have
sisters.
OK
It's obvious, but it's a little
cultural. Yeah. But, uh, so I don't have
I really learned, well, I learned in
done inside and and
I still had two friends who who
Yeah, they talked quite a bit and it was
cool. If I go back to VLC, then I
I thought you were
Yeah. Originally, in fact, you are
arrived on the project a few years ago
After. There is no VLC origin, there is
no creator. SO
rapid genesis. For me, in the idea
It was created at the central
So we're on the Nuk myth of the
Kem is there on a video game. Is that true?
We need to go back a little.
I promise I'll do it as quickly as possible.
possible but
Go ahead.
It's the 1960s. And go ahead even
Beforehand, explain it again because we didn't get it.
as mentioned earlier regarding VLC
For
VLC is a multimedia engine
and a fully open video player
source which is used everywhere in the
world as a reader and as
engine. In general, today if you
Watch a video about VLC online.
a part of VLC behind
including everything on Netflix you
see. OK.
So. Alright. We're now going to
goes back to Genesis and then we'll tell you
Go figure.
In the 1960s,
In the 1960s, there was this school
which is called the Central School of Arts and
factories that are not called schools
central Paris at the time which is from
on the side of the G of Lyon and which forms a little
nearly a hundred engineers per year and
we are in the reconstruction phase and
frankly, a hundred is not enough
quite enough. So they tell them he
The school needs to be expanded. But the school
central Paris, unlike, uh, so
unlike other major
schools, it's a uh a school that is
uh
whose supervisory ministry is
national education.
And so Polytechnique, you see, is
it is it
the army. Yeah.
Telecom, it was the minister, finally you
I see mines, at least there
Most of the top schools have
fairly wealthy ministries.
Hm.
And central Paris was not a
Ultimately, a rather poor school. SO
We understand each other, right? Pretty poor, that
means quite poor. That's still
quite rich compared to some
universities, but for example the budget
per student was divided by 3 by
report on mines. OK. And so they
They say, well, Central School, so it's going to...
Ferrant, clearly the center of France.
And there, the alumni of alumni
say, "That doesn't suit us." And so
What they're going to do is they're going to
buy a plot of land next to
from the jumping park to Chetnabri and they will
build a campus and they're going to tell
national education, "There you go, there you
you have the right to build your
teaching building and your
research building, but uh
"We're the ones who bought it." But this
What's interesting is that we arrive
at a school, everything that is more
public, right, really central, it's
really the most public thing, uh, which
is on a private campus, admittedly managed by
an association, therefore non-profit
lucrative, but it's still a
private land and everything was managed by
students on the attack. The library, the
cafeteria, supermarket,
the organization of parties, the radio,
the supermarket, even the grocery shopping.
OK, very good.
Radio, television, management of
rooms, you see. So you had...
had a little
So ultimately this mode of
how it works, wanting to understand everything
it's practically native
Yeah, yeah, central, yeah, I think so.
Yeah, and so actually on this campus
that is what is managed, therefore, in fact by the
students
and in the 80s there were people
IBM, which wants to deploy a network at
large scale. They want to deploy a
large-scale network to be able to
test things. And so a
an association called Via Central
Network via how to live computing
otherwise
and which deploys a
Let's stick with Via, that's it.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah, and who, uh
deploys a Token Ring network. SO
Ring tokens are technologies
network.
Ah yes, I saw it while working
the episode. Yes, yes, yes. By the way, instead
that each computer speaks to a
A router that automatically redispatches a network
in a star formation, everyone is actually on
the same loop
and actually you pass on the messages
computer, little by little. It is
as if you know, you put yourself, you
put them in a circle and give the message
in the ear of
or you are in a one then
it is still connected to the outside world
a place, but to get the message across
you are in a large circle with a
Tipis, uh, every 20 meters, and then there's a
a place where, within this circle, there is a
exit route. So you're going to give
You're going to give your message to the tipiide
next door who's going to give it to the tipiide of
It's a bit like a game of telephone. Must
just hoping there's no
loss.
Normally you don't have to cancel that.
But that means you're also slow
than the slowest of your teepees.
OK.
And you see, and this is the period when I...
I was telling you about my father who was watching his
emails in in in tel net what.
We don't care, it's irrelevant.
That's very good. But then comes
precisely the early 90s games
Nuk Nukem Doom videos and so on and for
play online.
Doom
Yeah,
You need to put something back together there. Yeah, Doom
It was crazy. Yeah.
So you play online. But there in
Designed for online play, you need to have
low latency. Or obviously a one
A network like that has a huge number of
latency. So they're going to see the school in
saying there's the web coming 93 92
93, we need
of a faster network for work.
And the school told them with a bad
faith that I think there are only the
French people who are capable of doing a
something about us months ago, saying we would like
There really is a letter we would like
I really want to help you, but you understand
the campus does not belong to us, therefore
Go check out the school's partnerships
because in fact the school didn't have
the money for that and that's what they're going to do
to do these students. They're going to go and see
and in particular they will go see the CIO
from the Buig group, Alain Puya and
someone was around and he told them
The future of television is satellite.
Well, no, but in '94 it's not stupid like
REMARK. TPS, it worked.
Exactly. And it's from and it's from
digital. So the problem is that
on a campus like Central, uh, you're going to
needing to install 1500 antennas and
1500 decoders. And they were coders.
It was stuff like that. It can
uh, it weighed a year's worth of death, it cost
2000 francs. And then a student when
It's not really, how should I say...
Careful, huh? We've all been students.
So the idea is you just put
a single antenna and you send it to the
network and it's people's computers
who will decode. We are at 486 DX at 33
MHz. H,
It's impossible to get decoding.
video. We are in postage stamp format and
Here we're talking about satellites which are, you
See, it's SD format, DVD format. THE
Students say go and this project
It's called Network 2000. Obviously, we
It's 1995, everything's called 2000. Well...
yes, but
It's true. Optics 2000. There are some who
They kept the name, by the way. But
Yeah.
And so, uh, and so it's 2000 and
So you're going to give it a go.
He shows the project; he has a system of
financing with the tax
professional, the apprenticeship tax
from the school and so on. Anyway, he
they set up the project and they have a new
ATM network 155 MB per second. I think
it was one of the best networks
of Europe at the time. And they have a demo
and the demo, we broadcast TV and the
The project should have stopped there. But in
97 was practically research in
do.
yes you were in something for
So, finally, show this.
The partnership worked because you have
You managed to demonstrate... No
Finally, those who were there succeeded in
10 years before you arrived elsewhere
managed to demonstrate some crazy stuff
I think the big demo is from '96
or in 97
Yeah
and the project should have stopped there.
97, early 98 there are students in
first year who actually say that
That's good, and there may be others.
people who are interested in the distribution of
videos on a local area network (LAN) and
He shows the Videolan project which is at
at that time a sub-project of
the association via central network. End and
He is launching a second-year project because
It was his second year, he launched a
new project whose goal is to be
open source and having a solution to
streaming.
So, video streaming on a
Local networks, you're going to say that you have
a video that is on a server in
local and you can broadcast it everywhere on
all computers.
So that's precisely the idea here, it's not for
files, that's for what happens
directly from the satellite. So, streaming
streaming, and so they have a solution
satellite streaming on a network
local. So you have a live video stream that
arrives and you are able to broadcast it to
full of computers. And and in there
He made those videos, there are plenty of
software. There is Videoline Server, it
There's Videoland Channel Switcher, there's
Videolan, there are tons and tons of
stuff. And one of those things is called
VideoLAN client and it's the player that
originally it's not the most
complex of the solution. the client one
client is what downloads onto the
on the end customer the customer's key
SO
to be able to read all of this
on your computer
on your computer, and so there is
the VC Videolan client and then there is
someone who adds since it reads the
the MPEC 2 video and audio format which is
So, satellites, but it's also
the one from the DVD, so there's someone who
add DVD support and then
then we add the Divix file inside
which arrives and in 2001 the central school
allows the transition to open source
It took a long time, didn't it? But then the
The date of birth is 25 years ago
years. It's February now.
It was February 1, 2001, the director
from the school signs a paper saying
"I authorize the Videolan code to pass through
open source under the JPL license
because, in fact, technically, when you
Go back to school and sign a paper.
who says that roughly production in
do
I was going to say it wasn't him who did it
developed, but yes, in fact
Yeah, but still, you still have
an intellectual property issue that
is not necessarily very clear but
normally some of your productions
school like when you like you
works can be considered that they
therefore have a certain right to scrutinize
there he gives the right to switch to LPG and
So at that point it comes out of the central office
There are people who test it and who
door, especially under Windows, by which it was
mainly Linux people who
put them on Macs and lots of people who
They add formats and that's it in
This will make VLC extremely convenient.
It's because you're downloading what you don't have
Never done it because it's very, very
illegal and it's wrong to do things
illegal. You download it onto your model
56k for 24 hours your September Divic
exactly in '99.
Hopefully your mother won't answer the phone.
the phone because it cuts the
connection. I remind you, we don't...
No sorry, it's really 56k
and you download that and then you
you realize that the film you have
It was launched as a Disney film, whereas you...
I wanted the last James Bond
Because the guy you put Matrix on
above. He called it Matrix, but in fact
behind it is just to make a
Joke, I don't know, but it's
Cinderella, basically. Or the other way around, you want
Cinderella for your children, you have
Matrix, you're not happy, you see. Uh
and VLC, since it's a player that is
Made for streaming, in fact you can
already from the moment you have
some data, see some images
because on a network, you're used to
lose packets. So actually VLC is
very good because in fact after a
By the hour, you can already see roughly if
You downloaded the correct movie. But
especially very often you download the
Good movie, and then they tell you I can't
To read it, you need to install a codec.
pack. So now you're going to download into
THE
It's all Windows Media Player.
It was awful, awful
and you start downloading codecs
codec packs and codec packs
absolutely horrible things that will
put viruses on your PC and in the end
It's still not working. you install
another codec pack and here's the codec pack
In fact, it destroys the first codec pack.
And then you have nothing left, you install your
VLC computer, it happens with all
codecs directly because basically
It's a software program that's made under
Linux actually, and under Linux you
I'm used to packages, so actually
they arrive and so, moreover, the
people took a long time to
The thing to understand is that VLC doesn't know.
read the codec packs, so in fact one
The file is either there or it isn't.
read. You can't install anything on
It was generally read, what. That's it
who was good with
Yes.
Not at first.
when I discovered VLC, indeed,
That was kind of the magic of it.
And so, indeed, towards that, that's it.
Around 2001, around 2002 it started a little bit
to take off around 2003-2004, at the time when
I arrive at Central, that's precisely where
It's starting to become known for that.
It's really true, but I'll tell you
Tell me, this is where I position it.
clearly. Yeah, it's called 2002.
video client and in 2003 it was called
VLC Media Player
and other video projects
They don't die, but there are many.
less interesting for outdoor use.
I arrived in Central in September 2003
and there is a change of direction and
He tightens the screw a little because when
even before the students had
lots of free time and therefore time to
to use VLC and therefore the software
It's becoming increasingly complicated. SO
actually the generations because actually
It's generations of students, it's
a project a year later. Yeah.
And so when they come back you
I'll be back in September, but by the time I've had enough time to...
to actually access the VLC code
You're already in March, you see. And so you have
You have a problem with that. And
end of 2006
There's no one working on VLC anymore.
You said you came back in 2003.
Yeah.
And so at the end of 2006 you graduated from school
more.
So. I was doing an internship. I was in
internship in San Francisco. I made a
VIIA. international volunteering in
administration.
Um, and before that, I did an internship at the CEA.
uh, the applications department
military personnel in Briger le Châtel. Uh
Oh yes, actually it's rather during
The SE actually does it, and me, uh, I do
More and more VLC, but at some point
That's true, there are two of us.
Enemies, a guy named Réy, uh
me and another one named
Christophe.
Then it's like real volunteering
All of this is Ah
Yeah, it's all volunteer work. Me,
I'm going to the United States in 2007 and in
actually coming back, I'm discovering the
the world of startups in San Francisco and
I say, "OK, actually, we need to do
something a little more serious and
So I'm going to create the association law
1900 Videolan which is therefore the end of 2008
who is being hosted. you will watch
The address is public, it's at
my parents because anyway, I
I told myself, since I was a student, I
change things, the most
The stable one I knew was the one
from my parents. The seat didn't move.
is still at my parents' house.
And so I created the association under the 1901 law.
and I'm going to try to recover then he
there were some servers
intellectual property, a little bit of
brand, a bit of domain, a little bit
of money to the left to the right of
restructure that into a real assault and
to go and see the old ones, those who have
Worked in '96, '98, 2001, and 2003
to remanufacture and have it done by
Young professionals, you know, young professionals.
people who are somewhat experts. And
I'm going to spend a lot of time going
at Ipitech, at Ipita at Central for
retrieve other jets, to go
to do final year projects and
etcera to revitalize VLC and that's it
between, it's an important job
that I did between 2016 and 2009 and in
In 2009, we have version 1.0 of VLC and
that's where we went from a few
hundreds of thousands to a few
millions of users to 100 million
of users. So here, you have the real one
gap, it's there and in 2012, we
accelerates tremendously. We find ourselves with
1 billion downloads.
1 billion in 2012.
So be careful, these are these are
cumulative downloads. That's to say
that actually someone who updates VLC
Yeah. OK. OK. All right.
However, what is interesting,
it's that today to give a
order of magnitude, the latest version
from VLC, it is downloaded to our
site 550 million times on a single
version. So you can't say they are
updates. Uh, and obviously, there are plenty
Others, like it's free and open source
and that you have the right to
redistribute, there are plenty of other people
who download it without going through
our website.
Hm.
Extremely interesting.
And that's a yes. download on
Windows, iOS, Android, Linux, Mac, BOS,
Solaris, OS2.
Um, I'm on the site right now, it's quite
funny. There's a real side to it, it is
really when it's good old school.
It's funny because in
The player has the same face, he's always been
old school VLC. I never remember
He told me this thing is the future. You
see
the first version under MacOS 10, we have
had a new design because of that
It was the first application. But
But it's true. And for example the website
I'm the one who makes the entire website.
alone.
OK.
Uh, I did it in 2010.
I believe this version and it works
What.
Yeah. Yeah
But it's not even ugly.
Do you want to do it again? No. It's coming back. You
go back to something that could be
Because it's quite simple, it works.
Uh, given 2 dollars, 5 dollars, that's
Very funny. Um, and we agree on this.
To end on the geek minutes, no, we'll...
will probably come back, but uh, that uh
so my team from my first start-up
Citizen Side who were working on some, uh, uh
video players, uh, and so it
was developing things, but starting from
of existing, it's very
probably VLC or
Absolutely, because VLC is actually
not just a video player, it's a
multimedia framework that makes
thousands of things. There are filters,
There are things, you can make things
multiple feed mosaics. There are many
very, very complex things in VLC
who are just not exposed for the
students.
You could do things with
watermarks overlaid, readings,
things. I remember who we have
two full-timers who were working hard
about that.
OK. Uh, all of that, actually, uh, you were doing
That
in my free time.
In your free time because in
In parallel, you set up boxes, you have
worked at other people's houses.
So, uh
So you work at Skelou, you'll tell me about it
times. So, so, I did
I did an internship at the CEA.
then a long internship at ST
Microelectronics in Grenoble. I did
1 year of international volunteering in
administration in San Francisco. I have been
a bit of a technical expert for a
start-up then Cito of another start-up
which was called Fairplay Interactive with
an absolutely brilliant guy named
Louis Vosdig and
Ah yes, I know Louis. Well
Yes, it was certainly great at the time.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah,
at the time the guy was in France,
the entrepreneur you see in the chair
rolling and which makes
Yeah, we kiss him, I think he
listens to us.
Yeah. And above all, a sense of rectitude
morality which, for me, was extremely
important for the rest of my life, you know.
And so there you have it, I'm the CTO of this
start-up. At first, I help him to
create a solution using VLC then
Uh, and actually VLC is starting to take up space on me.
really every night, every single one of my
weekends. Fair play doesn't work.
And so, well, actually, at the end of 2012, I went up
my
My company, uh, which is called Videolabs
uh, whose goal is to pay two
three people to, uh, maintain VLC.
Because at the time, I had two
Important convictions include, for example, that one,
we are going to have more and more start-ups
And so we'll have to be competitive
because young people, they're going to want
to create start-ups and I see it in
central, in fact. Even when I talk about
VLC, I'm talking about it
exchange. When I was at V in Central,
the guys who were doing open source,
They were the best of the best. In 2011,
I already have quite a few people, though.
They want to start their own business, they
They want to start a project, that's all.
Uh
and I, and I start having them again
people who tell me "Yes, but why
"It's free?" You see? So there you go.
I thought, OK, I need to have a
structure, there is a problem with
The subsidy is what it actually means there is
many subsidies in France which
exist only for companies and
scope but not for associations. That
makes no sense.
But so my original idea was
to create a company that is a subsidiary
in fact, by the Vidolan association.
There are many people in the assault
who are fixated on this. So I say
Well, it's not a big deal, I'll just do it
a a a a kind of accelerator.
I could, sorry, uh, I can, mini
Pause on that, but uh
challenge what you say about
subsidies that are for projects
for business purposes and not for assaults. I
I mean, for example, if you
take the, uh, what some can
to denounce, but in the universe of the
culture, for example, where you can say to yourself
"Well, uh
I obviously mean for those who...
Those who are used to it listen; they know.
There are some who are less so, but you'll
funding BitNCK who don't give a damn
"A lot, that's great." But then,
So in that it's a bit of a cliché of
the non-profit sector, while
the objective in perhaps the private sector which
doesn't always necessarily work
Better, right? Especially the...
people who are heavily subsidized but
you're going to subsidize when a universe
which has the objective of creating jobs,
create value, create taxes and
Et cetera et cetera. But it's true, but
In fact, for example, the tax credit
search, you see you have plenty
of associations that have a huge
of employees and have tax credits
Research can be very complicated
for an assault, or even not possible. SO
In fact, you see,
It depends, but in any case, at the time
So that's the thought process, I'm thinking...
In fact, that's it, and then especially, uh, we have
One problem is that the iPhone is starting
and the apps and uh I'm going to have
need a lot more equipment and therefore
much more budget. Um, and for
porting VLC to Android and iOS, it
It's much more complicated than that.
development on your PC. Everyone
He has a PC there, he needs phones, he
deployment is needed, and so on. Is it him?
There are app stores that are still
difficult to manage
You can put updates on things everywhere
Finally
And so I'm saying, in fact, we need a
structure, and so I create a structure
which was called Fidelabs in 2012, whose
but it's about hiring a few people
From the association, that is. Wait
So, but you were telling me that the association
she had no employees so the
Employees are in the LAABS video which is
a private structure
So, what are you selling then, and to whom?
Well, I'm actually selling two things.
mostly. The first one is...
Outsourced video production.
OK. So for companies like me
that I was telling you about earlier, if I
I didn't want to develop it myself, I
I would have come to see Videolabs and then you are
You would have been a very expert on VLC.
capable of
So. So. Primarily Google,
Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, you see, that
They are my clients.
OK. OK.
Uh, and then the VLC engine, it
has a slightly different license from
VLC. You have the right to use it in
your enedad in your app.
OK. So here we have a lot of engines
video games, from telco which makes it
the app for playing videos, streams
Actually, the videos are run by VLC. OK.
So when I am, I don't know, I
I'll say I'm watching a football match
on Orange TV. Uh
not for Orange TV, but technically
Exactly, it could be VLC
behind.
Why not ? Why are they at
Who then?
I don't know.
Yeah. OK. OK.
But Orange in general, they often have
Their solution, that is.
H
And so there you have it. So those are things
which are entirely possible and therefore
That's a lot of contracts. So there
we are really entering the
classic open business model
source which is which is a business model
B2B consulting, and in your case it's
That. So here in a model that would have
If you had been private, you would finally have a company
private, you could potentially have rented
licenses to use your VLC. There
You don't rent a license because VLC
is public but you are proposing some
services to optimize their videos. there
Speed ​​that has no bugs, especially the
even the most important supports and so there the
The clients I've had, well, we've had Free...
SFR, Sky RTL, German RTL
of Microsoft of Nvidia of Google of
Finally, there you have it, all large companies.
Electronic Arts, that's the kind of thing and
and also sometimes companies like
Talè says there must be a defense
Of course, OK
extra, there was some stuff
pretty crazy things that happened around
VLC, though, and a few stories about
crazy because when you dig a little
You'll tell me all about that.
Some, but when you have the software
the most downloaded in the world which is very
safe he if I understand correctly but you have
people, including overweight people
American administrations that are said
Hey, let's make a fake VLC so that
people pass it around
They download each other and then like that.
we will be able to take control of their
computer more or less. That's what happened
It did happen, it is.
what is called the Volt Seven subject which
is something that has been in
Wikileak, in fact, you see the Wikileaks at
the era, the golden age of Wikileaks
who was launching big things. C before
Snowden's things. And
Indeed, there is a CIA version
used a fake version of VLC which
was the real version of VLC to which they
had added two things which
launched at the same time. Actually, you
I didn't see him and he was reading the
files from your computer and send them and
in fact they used some
targeted ads to send this to
a specific person. Like that
done, and especially when you launch VLC, you
You're watching video, you have sound
So actually, if your computer it
starts to grind, it does a little bit of
noise, you say okay, so it's the video or
You can't hear it because of the video.
So, as a result, now is the right time and
Then you watch for 2 hours. SO
He could encrypt it and use it. We have
had another similar problem with
So when he says that, for example, I
I'm having a stupid mistake, but where did it happen?
Bin Laden, I thought to myself, hey, I need
to read
I feel like watching a little Matrix
deep in my cave
Afghanistan. You download it, it works
Not good, you download VLC but
Actually, I typed VLC into Google, and that was it.
The first linen is actually a fake, it's
VLC-Miaplayer.biz.
Uh, and this is the version that is, uh, for
Afghanistan translated correctly. You
Click on this link, download it, that
looks like the VLC thing. In fact, it's
a VLC. Besides, it mentions videos,
You see, there's just one little thing
additional. Yeah. They have, they have
the thing. OK.
We had the same problem with some
Chinese, that was a bit more recent.
4 or 5 years ago, uh, who have
used it then, there's not even the reader
video but they used the signature
of VLC. To start something else. SO
Nothing was happening there, but it was
targeted with Indians. Result
We had Vidéoline get banned
from India and I had to attack the
government
Indian to unblacklist VLC.
You took legal action against
the government.
Yeah. Yeah. OK. I did it too.
Are you still welcome in India?
I adore.
I have been to India seven times. I have
I visited many places in India. I adore
That. But you know, I did, I did, I did
Adopi was also seized, you know. I did
a referral
with, you see, the laws of Dats and
Adopi with something called ARMT
which was merged into Adopi which was
merged into ARCOM. Uh, I have
We did, uh, yeah, those are the
attacks against governments
more important, but you see, we have
uh, I've regularly had...
questions by Interpol or, uh, or some
American administrations, in particular
in police investigations where they have
a video file and there's nothing that
bed. Are you able to do it?
Do it with VLC?
You see,
Often capable?
Yeah.
You sell it for a high price, so you make
how ?
It depends.
OK. That's your box, that's what it is.
do.
Yeah. It can actually be free.
OK.
Me, me, I have a very, uh, yeah vision.
Yeah. Very geeky about that. That is to say
You see, there are things... you
see for example
when I was asked for help in the
cases of child pornography
You see, it's Yeah, go ahead, I'm coming
To help you, what? You see, it's... it's you
take a look at everything around you
forchan.
There is no rule, there is only one
The rule is no child pornography.
You see.
uh
Because that's actually it, there isn't
You see, it's a debate.
Hm.
Even though you see the laws
terrorists, there are always because
that you see the terrorist laws, they
have been used against environmentalists
against something, you see, you always have a
debate. The thing about pornography
infant
Childish, there's no debate about it.
No. So in these cases, well no, we
Throw it away for free, basically.
Yeah. What needs to be hot is that
so you end up lighting up
things you don't really want to see
What.
Uh no, I don't watch it.
OK. You can see that it lights up,
I want it to work, but you want it, you want it.
not
No, but for example, what happened to me
uh, uh, several times, uh, it's for
police, uh, so we, we don't
track nothing.
Hm
This is very, very important. I don't
I'm not capable because in fact
First, we don't have the infrastructure
But we don't do telemetry. not
of what I ultimately call it is
SP
I don't know how many readers there are in
simultaneous on things not even
How many times is VLC launched?
As you said, he's a customer, so
it's too much on my
no information, and besides, it's
Funny, a year ago we did
We lost the Vidoline website because
a somewhat complicated reason
And nobody noticed, so
the Vidoline infrastructure has collapsed
completely the only thing you
I see, that's when you were trying to throw
the updates they said error of
update in, no update found
That's all for today, so people didn't see it.
What. So no, no, nothing has been reported.
But on the other hand, uh, it happened to me
several times to have, well there you go, we have
this computer
Um, where is this phone?
Has anyone looked at a file? He
just gives you the filename without
view the file. So, you see
uh or
uh
Or you see, for example, it happened to me
in the IDAO where the police asked me
Is this type of video
Can it be used in VLC? They said "Bah
So, this person has VLC and they have this
"The video format is usable."
Um, sometimes that's happened to me too.
Interpol, it gives me a starting point
video, a file start and me
ask if I am able to read.
But the interesting part is
later.
Well, afterwards, yes, when it's
some slightly more complicated cases,
Indeed, we invoice, you see, by
For example, the national gendarmerie uses
VLC, they need support for it.
has a contract with Videolabs, and that's it.
Works very well.
OK.
Uh
Could I ask myself the
Finally, ask me about my computer, uh...
Do I have VLC? On my
smartphone, I know because I am
on Android. Do you have on an iOS device
Do you need VLC?
Well, yes, because, well, actually you
go ahead, we realize in fact on the
mobile phones that there are many people who
They say VLC for audio.
OK.
Because in fact people had
lots of MP3s and in fact
today there is nothing left that reads
videos. It's just streaming. So in
In fact, there's that and then there's...
lots of videos that you've recovered and
When you don't know how to read it, you use
VLC. And then a little bit on iOS, but
Okay, on iPad you see. And then you see if
You have your ace, how do you access your
data from your videos that you have
saved a long time ago.
So yeah, actually, there are loads
of uses. Which is very, very true, but
There you're getting far from the topic which is
very very vag
very, very different from one person to
the other one.
But now there are many and
Then, as if by design, we kind of killed
the game, there is more real
player, BS player and so on. So in
In fact, there are many formats of
video. Well, it's VLC or nothing, basically. And you
I know that VLC, being open source, in
At 30 years old, you still have VLC.
Yes. No, that's for sure. And then you
so I probably use it
directly or indirectly as you
I was saying with Netflix, with all
those things. But it's true that I
I don't think I have VLC on this computer. I
I know that I have it on my smartphone.
Um, I know I'm using your reason for
occasionally on audio files.
Um, I think we're going to use it because
I could get into a discussion
a geek who would please my team
but that's going to annoy everyone. On
is installing an ace where we are
doing some crazy stuff
up there because I believe that we we we
we with all the video files
Now, we finally have to upload
record roughly a little less
almost 2 ter 1.8 ter per month and therefore
That's a lot, and it's starting to affect us.
cost a horribly, terribly much
expensive in the cloud. Uh, and with Octave Claba
who came on this podcast, I think
that there are others who have learned it.
They told me he was storing some
stuff about magnetic tapes at very
very cheap. So we're going to do a
storage of our catalog bin on these
bands, but we want to have it too
accessible locally. And in short, uh
On that note, we realized with you
I know Alexandre Génie
as a result ? Alexander, an extraordinary genius
who is also with us at UFOs but
I received on this podcast and who we
develops something that allows us
to search through files, therefore
I don't know, I have 500
Episodes 550 plus Martin Galal finally
We're going to talk about the 800, maybe some
thousands of hours of videos and then
I'll be able to go get it, I know
not for our masterclass on the
performance I will look for all the
occurrences where we go where we said
performance in the podcast
Yeah, absolutely.
And then he's going to take it out for me and at
instead of having to download and load
each file individually in its
I will be able to load everything.
just the 3 minutes around this word
performance.
Actually, now with whisper in
In fact, you're doing speech-to-text, you are
capable of dumping everything that is what
What are people doing? And so
That's it, that's phenomenal and
So we're on the fast track.
technological and indeed I think that
Behind all that, you'll have VLC on the
player part
minimum. I'll take one from you
perhaps a consultation with your
your team.
Uh
OK. You, in parallel with that, all these
boxes, you'll be back. A little
round trip. So, we're going to go back to
the details of the boxes
Jean-Baptiste. It's true that then he
He left me, he's here for those who are here.
We'll be back in a minute. It's true
that this
this rather geeky episode that we're going to try
to regain some perspective. And
Then, but I also found it interesting.
this beginning of philosophical discussion
that we had on the latency. So you
You understood that, right? On Kyber, uh, in
I'd also like to understand all of that, uh
Well, what he wants to do with Kyber,
It's KYBER. Uh, and uh, we touched
from the fingertip of the depth of all this, uh
today, from what it could
to bring, uh, therefore, particularly in the
dialogue between machines. I had seen that
really through the video lens, but we have
I definitely felt that it was wider and
I think that
well, in the machine dialogue
machine, latency is really a
This is a very important topic because we
He doesn't quite realize, I was in
I was explaining to the cat when I farted.
Moreover, to my children the speed of
light, the speed of sound which had
a slight delay between the moment when
I was talking to them and you can see my lips
move and the moment they heard me.
So, we had to take the example
thunderstorms or fireworks with
this latency which was, uh, uh, which
was more visible anyway, uh, than we
felt much more. Uh, so
Okay, let's go into that a bit.
and on all these because here we are
I have Kyber and I have VLC, but how many
Has he created any other companies? He
He was talking about a dozen, 13. I think
also that he tried to buy back some
boxes in the courtroom. Uh and
because he wants to understand everything and everything
To do it, he went alone. Uh, welcome
back Jean-Baptiste. I ask myself the
question of the uh of the 12 other boxes
uh, or 11 other boxes. Uh, what is it?
that we have that is notable or interesting
or anecdote
funny
? Before these anecdotes, sorry, about VLC,
In the craziest anecdotes, we
a we covered the things that he
were or
the traffic cone? Something
Completely idiotic and makes no sense.
who has a silly student joke. Uh,
It should never have been released. It's out.
As a result, well, today it's
It's impossible to change, it's too much
iconic. Um, um, I like to tell stories
the story of Salah Hedin Salah who a
guy who's not worth anything, who knows nothing, uh, but
who has the EP is who sends me an email in
telling me "I have 2 hours of electricity"
per day and 2 hours of internet during
the war in Syria. How can he
help ? He's the one who's going to rewrite everything
subtitle support, whereas uh
Well, he doesn't have the technical basics.
Damn, it's true that there are some of you
You have the subtitle codex there.
They were codices, that is to say that
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. VLC is one of the
text rendering engines and
Subtitles, something a psychopath would do.
No, but that's it. To return
On that note, I download some...
for those who don't understand,
uh, you were downloading a movie in a way
illegal, let's be clear, there is
Prescription, who cares, uh, there is
15 years old, uh, and then well, he was in
I don't know, in Swedish, and then you had
No, there it is. So, we had to go
download from bookstores
specific to the translation, finally
forgiveness, not translation, not the
soundtrack, by the way, you must, you must
also do it on the soundtrack but
otherwise, pardon the subtitles and so
You knew what the VST code was, right?
VST SRTR but most importantly afterwards you need
to render the graphics, for example
Arabic, you see, is a language that is
It's difficult to draw the malam all the
South Asian languages ​​and that's what this guy is
left, right, and all that, it's the
what is called bidirectional very
It's very complicated to write in Arabic. You write
from right to left, but the
You write numbers from left to right.
So basically, you need to keep
the space before being able to do it.
In short, they're a bunch of jokers.
I sometimes had to change the license of
VLC. I went to see some
hundreds of people, including
people who, uh, had died and so
I had to speak to their parents for their
to say that I had to change one
open source license to someone who
was in a factory and who believed that
I wanted to make money off the backs
of his son. Not very funny. Uh
I found myself really at four
corners of the world, right, to do for
to use VLC. In your travels,
There wasn't a moment when you thought
"Wait,
It's just too stupid, you know?
because you were younger or because
that we're going to try to make money
We're going to make it private. You
Yeah, I mostly got offers at
several tens of millions of
dollars to buy VLZ and I had
legally the right. It was, it was for
Who is offering it? It was for you. Well
in fact it was to buy back the real one
value, it's the brand and the name of
domain. But in fact, I had the
So I could have done it.
Yeah, I didn't do it because I
I thought it was morally wrong
just. He
It didn't belong to you. So, beyond the
Morally, you could have done it legally.
Yes.
OK.
Of course. Then anyway the number
of the people in the assault, there were 10
people, there are always 20 people
in the assault. So you see
Technically, we could have. Is it that
Was it moral? No. So I don't have it
done because what is actually hyper
important to me and that's perhaps
my education
I am, I lived in, well, I was
So you see, I have three sisters but
really what we'll call câau de
left you can really see with a small
a bit of a working-class side, finally.
You see. So there are things that are
good things and things that are not good things. And
For me, it's important to do things
morally. I'm not and people
they say "Oh JB indeed you yourself he
refused tens of millions
euros." I'm not against money
Finally, I don't have, I don't have, I don't have this
need. I'm not you, I am
not on a crusade. I just think you
I can earn money in an ethical way.
Yes yes.
And it must be done.
I think it's absolutely necessary
All right.
And the important thing is that in the evening when
I go to bed proud of what I have
do.
There is the legal aspect. So that's
One is something that shouldn't be
Too much to go over, but morale is there.
Yeah. which is very important. I am
All right.
No, but for me, I am finally myself.
I'm not a legalist at all, you know. Me
You see, for example, people tell you
Yes, but that's the law. Yes, so what?
If your law makes no sense, well, that's it.
It's the law, not a
justification. The question is, is it
Is it morally right? And that's
very important, and in any case for me
This is extremely important. Like that in the evening
I go to bed feeling proud of myself. You
You see, and if I'm not proud of myself, I
I'm telling you, I'm not sleeping. And so there you have it.
This is very important. So I don't have it
do. Um, what else do we have?
like, uh, a lot? We did
So much so, in fact, like VLC, it's very
Funny, we've done so many of
crazy nonsense about merchandise.
We're talking about ties, we've been doing some
chocolate, we made VLC beer which
It was orange, we stopped, you know
at trade shows, we go there
Once, we built a room of
cinema in a living room, you know, big
trade shows at Porte de Versailles. Uh, we
went to CES, we lit up
fireworks at CES.
You had some doji-like things, some...
threats, a bit of stuff
extremely, extremely legal, especially
Roughly speaking, I take myself on average, I
I get three letters from lawyers per month.
OK,
The first one, you're trembling.
And I'm not putting any on now.
We can throw some of the worst ones out there.
THE
Oh well, the worst ones are easy to identify. That
It's called Dolby, right? It's a
box which was a very, very beautiful
a very technical box which has become
a company where there are more lawyers.
It's kind of like an oracle, you know.
They're really boxes, there are more
lawyers rather than engineers
And they have borderline techniques.
Even though it was a mobster's protection detail,
You see. Okay, so you see, this is
They make the sound, that's what. The 5th.
I have a lot of people, well, I have some
people who told me "Ah, you have to, you have to, if I
I had to pay for all the licenses that we
I'm wondering about VLC, should I spend
over €100 per VLC."
H
but in fact most of these patents,
They're worthless. It is, it is
That's why you're good at patents.
That's why I'm good at
patent.
So, yeah, I did a lot of stuff
funny. Uh
I worked. I think people, they
do not account for the quantity of
work. That's really quite
important. Damn, I worked hard.
What.
H
And yeah, it's finally my
Work is my passion. What I do,
I love it, but I work all the time. You
see them, it's finally over anyway
It's simple, I work, I take care of
My children and I sleep.
You don't do any sport?
Uh, very, very little. I travel by bicycle
And so it does, it does, I, I am
bought a large bicycle 2 years ago.
Finally, for my 40th birthday, I was given a
big big bike and I score
something called Babo Baboe. OK.
Uh, that's 70 kg, uh, but it's a big one
cargo in which I can put my
two children in the morning. Um, and I do
Approximately 100 km per week.
Alright.
That's quite reasonable. There are those who
people in my circle do running
But by bicycle.
Yeah. I have scoliosis and
I've done a lot of rollords in my
in my youth. Which makes it
My back hurts and my knees don't
incredible. And running. No
But cycling is very good. That's great.
Uh, it wasn't condescending like
REMARK. It was more about telling me "Mo I
I didn't do it. we should do
of the swimming pool.
Yeah, but cycling is great. You
I know the problem is that it
accident-prone. Uh, the pool isn't
Not, but the swimming pool for example, you shouldn't
to do breaststroke. We're not going back
in this
Why do breaststroke?
Because breaststroke is bad for
bad for the knees and back.
Yeah. Yeah. In the swimming pool you have to do
crooked back. That's the best. This is the
More annoying, but it's the best.
And how do you manage to go straight?
I never managed to understand how
You can go straight backwards.
Oh no, you need to take lessons.
The back that you're starting to master
However, there is nothing more
majestic.
Oh yeah
Yeah. That's great. And then the croll
The croll is really great. Al, I have
never managed to create properly without
to end up breathless.
No, but that needs to be done, it's been 10 hours.
10 half-hour lessons and you will
to enjoy. Listen to me. Do that, you c
the first four are
awful.
The next three are starting to be
thingamajig, and then we start to
Having a little mastery is sublime. Then there
This is the right time of year for
to start swimming. It's good. And then
then in the summer you arrive at the
beach and there when you can swim well in
Damn, we kind of get the impression that we have
spent the whole winter in a jar and then
Then all of a sudden you were liberated
splendid. I sold it for a good price.
That's really great.
Uh, Jean-Baptiste, let's start again with these
What, 12 more, 11 more adventures?
entrepreneurial. We talked about Kyber.
In fact, there are plenty. They are
tiny, tiny things, you know.
The worst kind, or the
Well, I have a company called
Codeclabs. There are zero employees. Uh, he
Years ago it was 1 million
sales figures. Most of
years equals zero.
OK.
And in fact, it's a box that was
created for just two contracts, but
It's with American boxes and
It's a bit complicated. And just for
a legal question, I prefer to have
a box that, if ever, especially the
Americans, these are conditions
contractual warranty that may
to have 10 million and so on. So in
In fact, you'd better put that in a
a structure that does nothing but that. SO
So, I have a consortium of a group
of 4 boxes plus one in Germany
which is around VLC, around FMC,
really the open source video part.
H
There you go, that makes six boxes.
Then, I found myself managing
buildings.
Uh,
Did you buy it?
No, no, it's just stories about
family.
I need to find myself, for example
I manage a real estate company (SCI) but I have no shares
And I would never have had a share, you see.
So, it's a bit strange. Uh, I have
I bought my house with my wife in SI.
You see. So I have, you see, I have, I have
I created quite a few structures. I have
tried to buy Shadow, uh, when with
a team of pretty incredible people.
Was Shadow a company owned by OVH? No
it was
No, no, it was a box.
French start-up that had raised 120
millions to do cloud gaming.
Oh wow! OK. Yes, okay. and I was
Cito and she fell flat and we
tried to buy it back with a team.
Uh
Cloud gaming means you play without
having it is potentially on one
Chromebook for example, that is to say you have
Do you have a computer, a machine, or
something that has absolutely zero
processor. You're just playing by
cloud. But then, latency plays a very significant role.
Strong too, I imagine.
And actually, this is interesting
Shadow's story because it is
something that will ultimately be a
pivotal for me in my life, it is
that I find myself with, in fact, is a
That's a bit like the beginning of the French language. 2016-27
Station F. We'll meet at Station F.
uh, with the VLC team because we have
Having seen some friends, we were given an office and
I absolutely love this place.
Especially since my parents, and elsewhere
The association emptied all that, you just came from
What about you? No
My parents' apartment is 100 meters from
station truly. Me, me, when
When I was 7 or 8 years old, I was going
So in Fressinet I'm going to do some some some some
Water gun completely illegal.
I wasn't allowed to do that, but we
was doing that. It was a playground
Not very dangerous, by the way. Uh, but I have
It does that pretty well. So that was it, that's what it did to me
laugh at the station. I really like this
place. But in fact I found myself
with the beginning of the friendshake with
including some people who do not
who looked down on me, but you see
No, but VLC works because it's
free. Wait guys, there's a
number of open source or free things
which doesn't work. So at one point you see
And so I was, I was a little
involved in start-ups. I was
That was the HC. No
No, because not necessarily. Pardon,
I have a "I" for the men who are listening to us, uh
It wasn't a peak at all, but
That's because I'll explain everything to you.
We'll talk about it right now.
Uh, this concerns me too, it's
all the people from business schools,
That's what I mean by that. Uh
I found myself, in fact, at
a bit of guidance for the start-ups, you know.
We were somewhat used to it, we
was very techy and so we
found in this, in this space
Green at Station F, there were people
From Vitality, there were also the
people from Ying Face and so on who are
passed through there. It was quite funny and
Actually, I'm becoming... we don't meet
VC sickness, I'm becoming
technical expert for investors
and all the same access around the
Video and No. OK.
Not necessarily, but actually
with Videolan we actually had so much
few means that you learn to be
very effective and can do everything and then
especially you have a huge amount of
technologies. I've done backend development, I've
I've done C, I've done C++, I've done
I've done C#ARP and Java for
Android, I've done iOS, I've done
I did some Mi6 driving, I did some
network, well you do a lot of things
and then especially well
and then the video startups
LAN is based on Bootstrap, so in fact
It's even harder. So it is necessary
really think about the business model, your
working capital issues, things that when
You raise funds in the traditional way, you don't
Don't think so. So that means I
I am still a very
technical, but I have an understanding
business. So very, very quickly, I arrive
And you see, I'm actually spending two days there and
I'm doing an analysis on a box. SO
that actually makes people do this
Professionally, we stop selling
That's 10 days and so on, and I'll take it.
one day and I'll pass and it's not
very pleasant for people who are from
the other side, but there you go, and then well
That's it, that's consulting, that's it
It worked, what?
It's cold, actually. You arrive, you
things, you look at it, tap tap tap, that
It's for your pet, he'll do nothing. No,
I'm not saying anything. I'm not saying anything, but I'm posing the question.
It's very unpleasant. Finally, but
That's normal, you arrive, you ask questions
billions of questions. And I
found, in particular, to be analyzed
Shadow, I think it was Partech
and 360 Capital Partner, but perhaps
that it was for someone else, I
I don't remember anymore. Um, and so, um, I
I'll look at the file and spend two days
uh, and here comes the CEO with
me, uh, and who's watching, and actually, quickly
So, Shadow, there is a
very, very strong video component
since there is cloud gaming which is
streamed and at the end of the day, it me
said "But it's still surprising in
You seem to understand, uh, too.
although my site, see better my site
the problems faced by teams because
I'm still arriving with a small
DLC route and then most importantly, well, I'm asking
questions and then obviously I can
"Don't stop me." I said, "But you have
"Thought to use this API?" Uh, no
Hey, look at this because you might
Do it like that, you see. And in fact
very quickly, I found myself
in there. I really loved it
And that was in 2018. And in fact, the CEO
got laid, left, got screwed
out. I don't know exactly what
what happened. The CEO was quite
He's quite a funny character.
Emmanuel Freud. And
So in 2020, he leaves, he quits, he goes
to set up another project, but he
is still a shareholder. And he told me
"Well, actually," and he takes the IOC from
Shadow. He told me, "Well, actually, he said
"Well, actually JB, you don't want to come in
as CTO of Shadow, uh, for a
a little because you understand a little
these topics to, uh, improve
look at what you can do, because
that indeed there is a component
Important video. Um, so I'm going to...
actually finding CTO of Shadow, uh
for 8 months.
We are truly sorry to rewind he
those that everyone has been following closely
I imagine, but a video component
important. But we also loop everything back together
the loop. Then later from Kyber
but rather from what you were saying,
that is, being able to stream.
This is truly pure streaming.
that is to say, there is no
local download when you play on
from the cloud. So, to explain those
who don't understand, in gaming
generally the core of your game, it
is on your computer and you need a it
You need a computer that can really work hard.
for very good games or certain
because, well, it rotates, it requires a
little power and so on and
You will eventually have some
data exchanges between your computer
and the computers of other people who
they play on the other side of the world. It is
That's also why there's often
For a long time we enjoyed LAN, therefore networked
local because it was going much more
quickly because there was no need to go
far. So here we are, back to square one. That's what
You were explaining it to me earlier about VLC,
what you work on later
Kyber. So here you are, right at the heart of it.
of your expertise because you do that
You for 20 years.
Exactly. And so indeed, and uh
and especially, uh, for many reasons, uh
I still have that [ __ ] side
to go and see the students. I was
used to doing a lot of things on VLC
things, uh, by listening to the authors and
uh uh with there have been quite a few of
Vals, the CEO, and in fact they had
lost a bit of direction, uh, they
They didn't really know how to go. And so I
I actually went very fast, I am
I went to see the community, I said "Well
"What do you need?" They told me
given three threads that they had
promised since 2016 and who wasn't there
in 2020. And in fact, I went
reorganize the teams to achieve
That. There were some great people in
this box. What were the fittings?
One of the most ridiculous things was the
dual screen,
to be able to play with two screens. OK.
So. And in fact, they were promised that
In 2007 and in 2020, it wasn't and I
I went to see the engineers and in particular there
They have two of them, they told me "Well actually,
It's not very difficult, we know how to do it right
Can you give us a month?
and a half by giving us nothing else
And in fact,
Yes, it was a question of roadmap
What. Finally,
It was primarily a question, and above all
to stop bothering them and their
to make the permanent changes.
So, this is what we have, this is what I have
do. Um, and actually, the company, it
went to the mat because in fact he
is happening, I wasn't watching.
All this because I was CTO at
Half-time.
Hm hm.
So, it's half-temple
and half-time JB. So, that made it I
I think I was working at least as much
than most other members of the
CODIR. Uh
but uh
I didn't look at the fundraising and in
They failed to lift it.
OK. Um, what year was that?
It was 2020.
Yeah. Those times, they were
hard. Yet 2020 could have been
the explosion of cloud gaming and uh
That was just before Covid.
Ouch.
That was just before.
So actually, there's an error of 6 here.
month. Ouch
and it starts, it starts in RJenement
judicial. I just have one question
on that because the I I therefore I
I'm not a huge gamer. Uh, I
I was a little bit into him, but uh
If I go back to what you were saying earlier
the time on Steve Jobs
uh, you had, uh
So, uh, Steve Jobs, uh, who said...
Basically, everything will happen on the phone.
the smartphone and you say that's not it
It didn't happen, and many people who
predict that gaming will be everything
move to the cloud. In any case, we
had high hopes for the cloud
gaming. I still don't have the... well, the
the, uh, the consoles are still from
increasingly powerful. Uh, indeed.
You download a lot of things, uh, from
from the outside, but we're not in
train heading exactly in the
cloud gaming, uh, scale. That's because
that it's a huge success right now. In all
In fact, we need to stop believing
that gaming is something that is
monolithic.
Yes, there are many different shapes
different.
There are people who do what we
calls for hypercual
in the subway, making a case
brick what. We don't call it a wreck
brick, but there you have it. And besides, we have
people in France who are very strong
in that. A you who is a box who
I made a lot of money on that. We have
Lots of stuff, a bit of casual gamer stuff and
You go all the way to the nerd stuff.
Yeah. So gaming is multifaceted.
There are lots of things. There is, there is
people, you see, for example, people who do
FIFA, you know, all football games actually
It's a whole subculture. It's very
complicated. There are constraints that
are much, much more complicated.
What's important, and this is true, is...
There is a small risk, or there is
perhaps a change is going to happen
because there the graphics cards they
start to cost significantly more
Because of AI and memory too. SO
in fact, buying computers will
maybe it will start to cost a lot
more expensive. So you might have
a reconfiguration. But frankly
It's very difficult to predict and I
I will not venture to predict in
Which way does it go? What is certain is
that in all cases, one must have
good solutions.
Uh
And so Shadow, I'm trying to buy back and
So I, I do, well, I do
An offer to buy Shadow JBK, that's what.
JB
solo.
Solo.
And how many people were there? He
What was there? had
There were 6 of us
OK, 120 million raised, you were 6
So no, so 120 million was raised
before that we lift
we make an offer first with we
There were four, then two were added and
we are trying to buy back the company and in
does the buyout, in fact, what we
it's called a reversal, it's a... it's
a very, very special profession and which
exists primarily in industry because
that in the industry, in fact, it is
Easy, you have machine tools, you can
roughly speaking, to evaluate them in
It's complicated when it's done in software.
because in fact we need to evaluate the
code, we need to evaluate the value of in
made of material, in fact. So that's
It's quite complicated, but obviously I
I did a lot of analysis and that
I was very familiar with Shadow's code.
I was capable of giving that. In front
From me, I have Octav Claba uh
billionaire, Xavier Niel billionaire
and then a fund, a Swiss fund too, which
had a lot of money
that you know more or less all the
Two others, or none at all?
Not yet at that time. OK. Uh, Xavier,
I knew him because, uh, he...
provided free accommodation for
Vidolan's servers. So all the
years ago, I started doing my email... uh, since...
now, uh, for almost 20 years now.
years ago, I sent an email to Xavionel on the
connecting what happened in
the year on VLC. So in general, I have
An OK, a thumbs up, or a smiley face, you
know.
And Otave, I met him a very long time ago
for a very long time because at one point in
In my life, I've done a bit of hospitality work.
But that's all. because you do
part of these geek businesses
but I never, well, I really never
I really didn't have any interaction with
Octave before that, and in fact it's a
a bit of a two-turn system
double blind in poker, that is to say, in fact
You have to place an offer and you can
improve your offer. So basically the idea
it's about getting into an offer that is
not too ridiculous so that we don't...
throws
but which must still be quite
structured so that you can
To improve it, basically.
That's all the covers. It is
like that
all the reprises in reprise it's
That's how it works and it works
at the commercial court, which is a thing
which is a somewhat protean thing
A bit strange.
Yeah. Which is ultimately not at all
professional judges.
These are often former
entrepreneurs or
Yeah, yeah, it's very, very, very
Amazing. And so, between the two rounds
Actually, I'm going to see Xavier. Wait,
Wait, wait, wait. I would like
just understanding how this works
You explain it to us in 2 seconds. Uh,
You say blind, double blind, so that
It's poker language. You make a
First suggestion, as you said,
Not too ridiculous, a second one a little
can be improved. What will make that
Will the second one be taken? This is the
number of employees you save. It is
That.
These are the debts you are repaying. No,
Exactly. Yes, because in fact your
the purchase price will reimburse your
creditors. So in fact, the price
In fact, it's about buying assets.
almost
The most important thing.
OK. So you have a company like Shadow
who who who falls. Generally, she
falls because she cannot pay
she can't pay her debts
employees, she can no longer pay. So.
And so she's going to have, let's say, you
Remember how much debt she had?
No.
OK. But let's say 5 million in debt.
You're going to say, "Well, me, I...
buys back
100,000 or 200,000
and then the others will say well
"Maybe 500,000 and so on." You're going to say
"Yes, but I keep all the
employees, the others." "Oh no, well I
"Fire them all." Some will say
thingamajig and in the end we'll try
We're going to judge you based on what you're going to do.
return to the Ursaf because often
The Ursaf is a major debtor and
then to the banks and then maybe that's it
the state, the general management of
public finances for VAT and everything
That
And what ultimately prevails is...
the right mix of what you pay back
or mainly the I thought that
it was mainly the employees that
You were saving then, right? No, because
universe perhaps
That's not it, it's that in fact all the
the world is aware of the offers from
others a little bit so we had
made an offer where we took over
virtually everyone in society
and also
and therefore the others do not. But so
As a result, everyone fell into line.
So then, as everyone was taking
almost everyone except 4 c
people, uh, well, 4 positions because
You choose your positions, not your people.
So you put in a number and then...
Maybe you made a mistake about the
figure. H
and so, for example, between the
first and second round, me
I'm allying myself with Xavier, uh, because he
he told me, "Well, it works anyway."
"No." His goal was to
buy back the company and the people for
put them in Skyway. And in fact I
He explains what we want to do
because he knew me, after all.
A little bit, you know. He told me "Good AG JB". He
He told me, "No, but Shadow, it works!"
not because of that" and I say "But in
"That's not it at all," the figures.
They told me, "Yeah, it loses 6
millions per quarter per month."
I said, "No, first it's by
quarter." And in fact, by doing that and
With that and that, we reduce the loss to 500,000
per month.
Wow, that's 500,000 per month. OK, we're going to
Let's start discussing what. And I
I got what I call my MBA in 5 hours.
I had a business lesson on how
We were doing business again with Xavier.
Uh yeah, I think I did an MBA in
5 hours, what. That's a brilliant slap in the face, huh?
Absolutely brilliant. And we rebuilt
a business, a business plan. We had
a plan, he said "OK, well then you
Drop your offer, but we'll take it.
My offer, but with your team as
"That leader, and off we go." And we have
An offer has been submitted.
OK. Can you give me a little more detail?
What did you learn in these 5?
time?
Yeah. How to build a real business
plan ?
How about a big smile? In fact, it
It's made with large stitches. Not at all.
It's done the way they teach you in school
trade with BP with
Completely insane Excel files
that is, to please the BPI or
to the bankers really understand how
you structure,
What are your orders of magnitude, anyway?
see working in order of magnitude
Finally, you see the question.
It was "to," we were on commas, weren't we?
No, we were there, he took everything.
simplified everything and so on, it's
really very, very good at laying
Good questions. And in the end, you see,
We had our plan, we were saying that it
5 million were missing
and finally, the lowest hole, he is
5 million, making him do it and therefore in
taking all the assumptions
More pessimistic, he said -30. He said
"OK - 30, I know how to do that." There you go, and that's it.
has left.
So minus 30 million, that will be the debt.
the worst
in the years to come.
In year 2 of our plan.
OK.
Incredible, truly incredible.
What an incredible day that was. And
So you have, uh
And then we proposed, well, at the end, so we
offered 4 million and opposite him there
Octave Claba was there, so not on VH but
with his personal holding company which has put
5. Well, you see, at one point, ah, very
disappointed and so on
What a great experience. I have a lot
learned during these months. I am
He came out feeling pretty drained, though.
eh.
Uh, it's a fight. I still think so
that there are many
there is a real business that exists which
is the turnaround of start-ups that will
to fail because there are so many
and in fact most of them go to the
It's rubbish, and that's a real shame.
Ah, but that's right.
And that's a real shame. But when you have
when you just have to grab something
But when you have a box like that, we
He's talking about 120 million, there are even some if
even if it's 20 million
It's 15 million, you know, or 50
that it's not just the server but that you
Have you had dozens of and that of
sales too, but dozens of
hundreds of engineers and people who have
does things that we do with the product
They're not too stupid, in theory, because
They were funded and those who go to
the breakage and you can buy them back for
There you go, as you say, 5 million, 2
millions, 1 million finally of time in
Maybe some time if there's no one who
bat because when you say that
If it really goes to the junkyard in
bankruptcy filing, well actually, take them
What. There, there is, there is a
but it's very difficult because
It's very difficult to analyze and you have
not much time, you're in a
At this level, you need to understand the business.
the tech, the plan and so on in 2
weeks, 3 weeks, that's very
intense.
And so when you're not there it's very
intense, well there are lots of people who
Those who are capable of listening to us
work very intensely for 2
weeks, 3 weeks. Ideally, one should
What do we need? You need a hen of a few
people, someone very
technically skilled, someone very business-oriented.
someone legal.
Yes. And a financier.
A financier.
Yeah.
OK. Therefore, a legal technical business.
financial. You arrive at 4, you look
the stuff. Quite technical, though.
It's also the technical aspect, but
And actually, there are lots of start-ups there.
And you see, actually, I don't know if you
See what Bending Spoon is. You see
What is Bending Spoon?
No, I don't think so. Uh, so it's uh
an Italian company that will
probably be today the
First, uh, I don't know how we
Call that a horn, what else? Descorn
descorn. Unicorn description
Ah, I've heard about that. Who takes over
those who who them who yeah who them
aggregate.
They, then, bought Everot.
I've seen that ever
meetup Hopin Vimeo Brightkov in 5 years and
In fact, what they take, they take
companies, so they...
They don't take those who aren't well, but
roughly speaking, which are companies like
Evernot, which was valued at 1 billion, but in
do
That gives you an EBITDA of 2% to 3%.
So in fact there will never be an exit
suitable for investors
But they're not failed products, you know.
And so what they do is they
They buy back the product, they fire everything
world and they make the continuity of the
product development in Italy and in
Romania. So, I believe in Romania,
I'm not sure. Um, and actually, they
reduce structural costs by
Three, that is. The product will advance less
Quickly, that's for sure, but uh, and they're going to...
They may raise prices, but they have
will really almost just keep the
produce and fire everyone. And in
In fact, you see, there are quite a few
companies in fact like that which in
the value, you see, you call it as
You want to, but you see, between 100 million
and a billion. Aune for a moment
valley of death
at one point it was valued
billion
Or
I think it was bought out for
€100,000, you see, and there you have it, so that's it.
this box and in fact what they
they do it, so they don't do it.
turnaround
literally, that is to say, they pass
not in court but in all
In this case, it's this idea.
So, there are those who
go to court, there are those
as you say, we who reach the end of
their adventure that we mark which are
perhaps profitable, a little profitable which
have been overvalued and there is also
among the things to look at there are some that
who is actively working on this, I know, the
funds of investment funds that have
invested in companies there is finally, you
see, from 2015 to 2020, the funds
of French investment, they have been
very very active. We're now returning from 2026.
2030 is the time when they will
to want to get out of these woods. And there, there
It actually has a liquidity problem.
Exactly. And so they don't like it
to go out with heavy losses because
It's palm-based. But there are
moments when you made your gains on
One or two boxes, that needs to be closed.
the bottom line.
Yeah, that's exactly it. a background, the
People don't realize that...
People do this when they talk, finally
The general public tells you, they're confusing
the investor and the fund. Most
investors from companies
investment, they have several
funds and the funds, they have
They have a background 1, background 2, background 3, we
is in the bottom 1.
So. And you have a limited time, in
in any case an objective duration for and and
a value, you see. So it's not
infinity. So at some point, well, you have to
To get out of it properly, you have to close it down properly.
Finally, you see, you have to send some back.
the money to your investors because
that in fact the funds they have what we
calls for LPs, limiting the partner and
Actually, well, a background is like
a start-up. You're going to raise funds
from a bigger one who will give
funds to create a fund
investment. H
So at one point there is indeed a
The problem is, we need to get out, and then...
The problem is that, in fact,
shares in a company are not very
liquid, in fact, like, it's not
Bitcoin, that's what it is.
Then deep down you killed both
three companies that are very liquid
because everyone wants them
buy back, wants to get back in, and so on.
then you have 80% of your your your
lines, as they say, of your companies in
which ones you invested in. So nobody
doesn't want those who are in the valley of
death, not necessarily corpses
but who are
So what we're saying is that in the
You have one out of every ten startups, you have one out of every ten.
which go in the trash which is worth
zero, you have two that are barely scraping by and you
you have one that does your
exactly, and so here's what we
is saying that
There are two who are just getting by, but there is
also what you were saying just before the
are those that are worth zero actually worth
zero ? Personally, I think she doesn't
are not worth zero. For the funds
Regarding investment, they believe that
It's zero. But I think there is
Indeed, things and especially
today with AI, in fact, I think
that you will be able to resume
Technical companies are much better than you think.
I could have done it before. Uh, but that means
to say that, well, you see, you arrive at
operations where there were 100 people
and you're going to rotate them with four.
So, to come back anyway because
That was still your question because
that we have, we have, we have drifted, therefore from Shadow
In fact. Well, obviously the six who have
We couldn't have put together a takeover bid.
stay. You knew perfectly well that it wasn't going to work.
to go well. We've left. And so,
we set up, uh, a company called
E-ShOTL who did stuff around the
video rights, uh, rights
video author using smart
contracts to find out who had the
broadcasting rights. And one of the uses
These were the NFT videos from a live stream.
A bit like NBA Topscho, well that's it.
OK, I'll try to interpret it quickly.
2 seconds. I'm making this video
with you. I have my copyright, I
I produced it myself. So there is
different types of copyright. Who
They produce, there are those who distribute, there are
en a qui et cetera. You can sell them.
You can rent them, you can have some
licenses for a few years, you can
saying things like that. You, you
I'd engrave that in marble with NFTs.
so on the blockchain
And you were saying, well, look, he has
no longer allowed to play this video
because his thing lasted for 2 years.
Today, things, people are expensive
That's what Excel file manipulation is all about.
very complicated and so on. Above all, manage
He can't handle it. And above all, there was
also all the technology that made you
clips automatically in relation to a
live.
Hm.
Automatically, who did the things and
etcera with a small video editor. Uh
That didn't work, so it pivoted.
to find a solution precisely for
cloud gaming, uh, for, uh
test the games. It's not really
cloud gaming in itself. It's more like
alpha previews, press releases, etc.
interactive advertising. Click here and
Test the video game in your browser.
So, it's more like this and this and here in
That works better than the the the
cloud gaming. Cloud gaming, you have a
The problem is, it works very well but it's
It's a business plan problem, basically.
That's because people are going to spend money.
They're going to play 100 hours and that
It costs about €1 per hour, so that
It won't work. But when it's to test a
A game for a journalist, 5 hours, well, in
You can bill them for it.
shots or 5 minutes to test the game.
That's possible. So there you have it, so that
It's a company, uh, and then, uh, and
Then, well, I have Kyber, uh, who is, uh
the company I am focusing on
this moment. Um, in the meantime, I've been
Still, but we're not going to talk about it.
I was VP of Engineering at Vent
Private, an absolutely... uh... experience
Brilliant.
OK. VP of Engineering, that's the
Vice President of Engineering.
Yeah.
Is there a difference with a
CTO? You're above, you're bah
In fact, you realize that sales
VIPITECH private technical service is 900
people. So in fact
This box is a massive gift
the CO I eat a friend uh
He is the CEO of the Tech Business Unit
What. You see, he's got it under control.
He manages a recruitment budget.
products, the relationship with
Business outside of tech or not?
No, that was the idea, but they did it
Never done it. Anyway, there you go, well you
see the purely technical decisions
uh, it was me. So, but you
I still had 900,900 people in
VPtec. So, you see the questions
techniques
Yeah, they're sturdy, that's for sure.
Yeah, but above all they are
which are fundamental for many people,
A lot of things about Galaxy.
I learned a lot from that and afterwards thanks
Through that, I became again
Skou, you see. So that's funny, isn't it?
loop back to your story
Shadow. That's why I'm telling you
Shadow's story, she is she
is key. That's because there was the fact
that I also wanted to show to
people I knew could do something other than
VLC.
that I also understood business, that
I did know how to manage teams, though.
large, you see, 900 people at
Scalway. I did that for two years and
half, I actually started in
doing an audit, precisely, uh, and when
I was at Scalw's, that changed everything
In fact, a few things happened
products to hundreds of products.
Today, Scalyway is almost
capable of competing with a GCP, a
EWS. Um, when I arrived 2
years,
Skalway is a company that belongs
uh, Xaviel 100% at Iliad. OK. It is
It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Iliade.
OK. And who is on a cloud service like OVH?
It is a competitor of OVH. It's not
exactly the same positioning but
Yes, you could say that. It's more
cloud and less hosting.
OK.
That's because, in fact, before Skyway had
also data centers. That was
split into a box called
HPCore. And so Scalway is really
Pure software. It's really the
cloud software.
OK. and who operates the equipment but does not
doesn't manage
They also have their own data center, just like at
VH
No.
OK.
So Scalway no longer has a data center. He
rents data centers from Equinix, from
Interaction, at Digital Reality.
We can talk about sovereignty. Skalway,
It's like on OBH, it's a cloud service.
Finally, it's a sovereign cloud.
Yeah. The real issues, that's the
real issue. That is sovereignty
digital. Um, and there I did a lot
many organizations. Uh, well, I have... I have...
transformed nonetheless and
engineering in a box like
Scalyw is really the heart of the business.
eh. So, that's what I did.
and now in fact and in
In parallel with all of this, I was working
specifically on Kyber's technology. The idea
it was about seeing how to redo the
Shadow's open-source technology based on
VLC and on FFmpeg, so linked to my other...
companies. FFM PEG, I know it's a name that
I know of several
FFmpeg is like VLC but for the
server. This is really the part
video encoding processing.
Yes, that's it. That was the encoding.
encoding transcoding which is not the
The same applies here.
If we don't care, it's not... it's...
processing video server side and that's it
Part one is one of the companies that
I have. I have a company called
FFLABS which only does FFM PEG. And
On that subject, by the way, I have three
clients, Google, Amazon, Netflix and
That's all.
Uh
And so, uh, Kyber, I launch and we
Look, actually it's not even called
Kyber, uh, and uh, finally it's okay
to be called Kyber, uh, because actually the
The company that made Shadow, uh, well, you see
Shadow means the shadow, and therefore we
We were saying, well, we have a project that
His name is Light, and actually, uh, and that
It's important, uh, in Star Wars the
Lightsabers in English are called "lightsaber" or "lightsaber."
Saber, hey, those are lightsabers. La la
The translation of "lightsaber" is incorrect.
translation. We should say saber
light. And the origin of swords
Lights, that's the kyber crystal.
OK.
So. And so this is the codem of the project
in the same way as when we have the
Shadow acquisition project, on
He had initially called it Enduril. Good,
It wasn't a good name because we didn't
We hadn't noticed there was a box
American woman who did that, but actually
the box behind Shadow, it
His name was Blade. And so the sword
reforged from Lord of the Rings, it is
Endur
Short. And so there you have it, so it's called
Keyber and for a very long time, it's
It's just a prototype I'm making.
thanks to my other companies, you see. And
then we manage to do something that
It works pretty well, and thinking about it
Not bad, you think to yourself, that's something
incredible because there are so many
used for machine control
distance, and that's how it actually is that
I'm going to launch Kyber.
OK, so here we are saying
So pay attention, this is important.
That's also what people will say
Wait, but JB, how do you do it?
manage all of that? I don't manage all of this.
The thing is, I'm actually a pitcher.
of the project, uh, and then afterwards I find
And so I delegate a great deal.
Do you understand, though?
I understand, and above all, I have to
very simple and automated reporting on
A lot of things.
But cybersecurity will be his only option and
single subject.
Yeah.
Finally, I speak as
that investor would be better
stress. Yes, absolutely.
But you see, actually, you see, I have
I have different thicknesses, you see. I have in
In my life, I launched Vidéolan in 2008,
I launched Vidolabs in 2012, I launched
Uh, FF Labs and Codeclabs in 2016. In
In 2020, I was CTO of, you see, uh, I
I did my consulting in 2018. Uh, I was
CTO of Shadow in 2020. I returned to
private sale in 2021, Scalway in 2020.
I have cycles for launching projects.
Uh
And so I have some amazing people,
That's what I was telling you, who are good
better than me and who manage the
daily, otherwise it's impossible. And
That way I can focus on something
thing. I automate everything.
All. That is to say, I really consider
that everything is automatable, including
HR, company processes and
especially we do the same thing in
All companies, for example.
I need you to explain, uh, two things to me.
things.
How do we automate it and to what extent? Uh
because, in HR, I could
to have points for reflection and
topics. And how do we delegate? GOOD
delegate, that means you agree to
losing control, but that means you
accept that people will do the
things not exactly as you see them
would have done. It's very frustrating
First time and then afterwards you realize
I realize that, well, in the end it's great.
We need to have people who are
compatible
With you, at least. Uh, I
works extensively asynchronously.
My life is notifications and I
I respond to notifications when I can
and I strip everything. Uh, but so the
people who need to make a pass with
For me to ask a question, that
It doesn't work at all. That doesn't mean that
This is a bad way of working.
It's just that it's not compatible with
mine. And so that's very
The important thing is that
This is not a question of value
Is it good or is it not good? There is
people who are compatible with you
to work with you and others who don't
are not. interesting
and and and
You see, I'm going to tell you something a little
funny, well, funny in a way that's true, but
I am a very good leader, I am a
I don't think he's a pretty bad manager.
bad, but I'm not a good manager
What, you see. I have people who
precisely in societies, they are
Much better managers than me. Yeah,
It's... it's finally, you see, it's not
I agree with you on that. I can
to be that and what's funny is that
I can be exactly like that. And to
The opposite of you, I think I am
more efficient when synchronous. That's to say
that I hate living
uh
Actually, it depends on the notifications.
I feel like I'm a slave to
notifications, and that's something that...
which weighs heavily on me.
Everyone works as they see fit, that's all.
I think that to delegate effectively, you need to
Knowing yourself well. H
I've had quite a few moments where you
See, I analyzed myself and I had some
people who helped me analyze myself
Wise man, what am I doing well?
What am I doing wrong? Know
know
Who were you, who are you now, coaches? Uh, no.
friends of friends of friends with
who were with me at Central uh
especially Jeremy, if you're listening, uh, my
woman, oh dear, uh
people, specifically Simon, who is, uh, the
CTO of Kyber, uh, uh, your analysis of
In a pragmatic way, that's the most
hard. Uh
Yeah, it's not always like that, it depends.
Sometimes it's just that you got hit.
slap in the head, you take it
A slap in the face, basically. You see by
For example, there's a guy named
Julien Rouillard, whom I haven't seen
from Centrale and who told me three
things at Centrale that have stayed with me
extremely strong in the head.
Go ahead.
No, that's too personal.
Stop.
No, no, seriously.
Oh yeah, but no, you can't do that to me
Something like that. You can't get me out
there. Julien told me three things
Since. I haven't seen him for 20 years.
thing. I can't tell you everything, but in
In any case, for example, I was in a
a time when I was feeling a little bit blue.
and so on, central and every time that
I was complaining, he was putting me in this position.
street song that belongs to us that says
"Luck does not smile on those who..."
"They're sulking." But frankly, it's
He told me, so I'm not going to say I'm going to
I tried to be polite, but he shut me down.
sweets for a long time with that me
saying "Go on, stop complaining,
"Go ahead, go!" What? Go ahead, go. And that
Luck does not smile on those who
They're sulking. But he has so much
reason. Well, you see, that's a
Something that always comes back to me. Rio Julien
I haven't seen Rio. I have
I tried to, I don't know where he is.
I don't know what he's doing. Well, then.
In fact, you see, and people tell me
say I am someone
lucky.
Rio is no longer responding.
Oh no, sorry, I don't know if it's
allowed as a joke but it's with a
yux.
And that's super, that's super
Interesting, it's extremely important. Uh,
There are many people who tell me
I'm lucky, but actually the
chance brings. There is a part
chance.
I have an exceptional episode on the
chance.
Great!
I'll send it to you.
Well, I'm listening.
Go ahead, rat out the others.
Uh
No, it's that one, it's the most
important. That's the most important thing. But
For example, you see, another person
who has done a great deal, so we have
Louis V Proddige was therefore
in fact my real first boss, my real
first work and moral rectitude
and a work value
monstrous for someone who was in
wheelchair tetraplegic what with
amazing.
I've always seen it that way. I
Obviously, I don't know anything like you
But I've always perceived it that way.
My son's name is Louis.
Hm. So for many reasons, but
One of the reasons is in reference to
him.
I like that about him and about many others.
of tech in moral rectitude and will
their work when among the best.
Something you find among the
journalists, for example, also when
when they are very strong, better and
etc. It's a very analytical side,
listen and so forth and behind you
transcribed something that is looking for
the truth. That's quite interesting.
Uh, there you go, and a few, a few
a few people. Uh, uh, I also have
counterexamples
uh
people who gave you forgiveness
some shitty advice you have
follow up.
No, no, people who were quite
close to me that I saw doing
anything
morally.
Morally, in the management of the company.
So. I also learned about management
by seeing bad examples, people
who shout in meetings, people who...
humiliating sight,
you see for example the
Praise in public, blame in private, you
See, that's extremely important.
So you praise in public and you blame
in private. You're actually criticizing it.
private.
Yeah. You see, these are things
quite important.
Uh, there was, there has been, and it's the same.
I also like the uh
Excuse me, I'm very much like that, but
I also like the "What do you want?" aspect.
"Water, here you go, and with pleasure." And this
This time, I'm going to give you some water.
gaseous. But she wasn't in the
Good bottle, you see. There, I
blame one in public. And uh no, I
finds that the side uh
I love, uh, the thoughtful disagreement
and the hardcore side, the transparency
radical and at times, uh, obviously that
depends on the subject, but being able
to say, uh, ah, we're a small
team, you see, but at 4, 5, 6 one has
done, including to me what what one has
It hurts where you can progress in front
everyone, it can also do
to make progress for everyone. Yeah, but in
in fact, one must be careful about the way
as you say.
So, what I actually learned is this
It's not always the most skillful.
Well, for example, when I
People find me very secretive and
that I'm messing around with a little bit. Is it that
when I say something and you see a
At that time people called me Jean-Pierre Cof
computer science, uh, you see, I'm saying
It's all crap. Never is it a
No one, that's right, that's it, that's the
[ __ ]. Why and how can it be improved?
And that's very important. That's mine
stay in the United States where in fact they
are sometimes extreme, but there are
Something went wrong in France. You
spends 45 minutes explaining why
It went wrong. It's not my fault and it's
thingamajig and so forth, and then a quarter
The solution is available within the hour. Americans
They're saying OK, it's gone wrong. OK, now we
What does it do? And that, for example, on
Videolan was very important. There is
many times I said OK the
The blame is mine, it's me, it's my fault.
While objectively it is not
But we don't care. I don't have any
time machine.
Yeah.
And this is important, I don't have any
regret.
You see, you're crazy because in fact
The regret is that it's a tax
wasting your brain. You can't do anything
TO DO. What do you want to do? You
I regret it. So what are you going to do?
So unless you had a machine to
Going back in time, which is cool. But
I don't have any.
Tax a tax from the past that serves no purpose
Nothing. That's right.
And it's like anxiety, it's a tax
about the future. Stop. Finally,
I know it's hard, but you see, it's
about the future, you see. It's me
I see, I have the little situation
Italy of fear, you know what?
fear and the little death of the spirit
which leads to total obliteration. You
You will not be afraid. That's a mantra that
I'm quite strong. Same thing, you see that?
It's useless. What are you going to do? Well, at
worse, and at worst it will fail. And so to
every time I have a decision to
Take my vision, what is it?
the worst thing that can happen to me. And in fact,
you if the end is not death
someone,
What's worse? Okay then, well
Your company is dying. Yeah, well, so what?
As for work, I'll find some. There
Most of my guys, they'll find some
The blocker knew they were taking
risks.
Exactly. Finally, but at that point,
one must be, one must be, one must be
quite transparent, but never
Insulting people, you see. So there you have it.
I had some counterexamples and
These are the counterexamples, I found them.
very interesting because I learned
There are a great many counterexamples. SO
Obviously I would never give you names
but I saw people doing
Catastrophic management.
I've seen people burn out, but like
burnt out and you could see it and you could see that
It was unstoppable.
And that actually helped me to
to build as well. So because, well, you
Say it and you know your limits. I
I know my limits quite well.
How do you manage not to get burned? And
Well, I'll stop there.
You can feel it, you can feel that you're stopping.
What. You stop. You work a lot.
You say, "But you take vacations, you
You stop in the evening, you
To recharge, I don't need
"I need a change of scenery for my vacation."
That's quite surprising. Me when I
I'm tired, I've only slept 8 hours for the last 3 nights.
It's sorted, you see. But on the other hand,
When I'm mentally tired, I have
I need it, that's why I travel
a lot,
A change of scenery helps me enormously.
So, I don't know how that happened,
I don't know how my
brain exactly, but I know that
It works 100% for me
And that's important, that's what it is
In my opinion. That's what I actually...
I learned, it's for me and it doesn't
does not apply to everyone. And that
It's quite difficult. People me
they say, "Do you have any advice?"
"For me?" Well, actually, maybe I have
I have some advice, but I don't know how you
works.
No, but you see, we were talking about it all the time.
the time. I don't know certain things.
It doesn't work the same way at all. And so
each one, but it's interesting to have
to open the chakras and understand a
little.
You see, that's the whole point of this...
This podcast, you see, is about understanding
how each one functions and power
choose the ingredients for their recipe
which could work in the
Here, you see.
You see the only one, the only one, the only two.
tips that work almost every time
Time, unfortunately, is work.
And don't be afraid of the future. And go ahead
What.
Why unfortunately work?
Are you happy to be working?
Do you like what you do?
I don't know if I could work 10 hours.
But that's too easy. But you see
imagine that the whole of society works
10 hours a week and the rest he
cultivating would be great.
OK, it depends on the job. It depends
Maybe I actually work
if you want to put it differently. I
works zero hours per week.
All I do is do stuff
funny. I only ask questions about topics
exciting with amazing people. All
THE
everyone was working all the time but
that they were so happy to
to work. So
I work with some great people, and that's it.
And so, to conclude, to answer your question
how we recruit, how we are with
They're amazing people, you know what I mean.
to know its flaws. I have some
defects. Um, and precisely, it's necessary
to meet people who are
different from you. and automation
Quickly tell me a little about your latest...
things there where you
Now it's so simple with
from lias to slack bot strikes that make
your things that make your holidays redone that you
uh, who will uh, make prints
who give you summaries that do
You'd have a really concrete one there, nice to...
I could share that I could uh
apply or
I've automated my house a lot
with home assistant and with music
assistant of
Home Assistant is Google
No, it's precisely an open-source thing.
and which, depending on the temperature
whether or not to open the shutters, things like
That
recently on keyb
wait, wait, wait, stay there
We'll come in 2 seconds. No, no
assistant
Wait, if Home Assistant we could...
spend 4 hours.
No, but go ahead, tell me what it's like
A quick 3-minute job. It's a
open source home hub that
runs on a Raspberry Pi and which...
connect all your heating, your
electricity, your solar panels, your
water that lights up all the lights, that
turns off all the lights, which changes
the temperatures and so on and everything is
centralized in an app.
OK. But you, when you finally get home
you and the lights turn on by
examples of things like that.
OK. And what's the coolest thing?
Is it just geeky and is it
Funny? Because at a certain point, indeed,
my U lamps were flashing
every time I had a new
follower on Twitter. I thought that
After 4 days my wife was going to me
butter. Finally, I think she was going to
I'd kill myself, by the way. So I had to
report this to the office and at the office, they
They almost killed me afterwards too. SO
This Philips U has been unplugged for 10
years, you see. But
Yeah, but except that controlling your
of your electricity consumption H
because I connected it to my Linky meter and
So I have three-phase power. Uh, you
See, that's quite useful. It is
not just, it's not just a gadget
uh, turn off the lights in the houses, all the
Lights when you leave, it's not
gadget. Uh, but mostly, uh, you see, uh
to be woken up, uh, just because
Your shutters have gone up, it's
more pleasant than having an alarm clock that
It's the weekend. You see things
like that.
It's true.
And regarding society,
Write the processes and then implement them.
You see. Me, I am, me, I have, I have
almost a spreadsheet of
When I set up a company, we use
conta, we use Alan, we use Pfit,
we have stuff and all that, it's almost
automated. You could almost
scripting the creation of the box
uh, and everything is postponed in the same way.
way.
That's good, you're listing all my sponsors.
that's great
compit at least. Yeah.
Alan could become that, but Charles
listens to us
or he came here, we know each other. Uh
OK. Uh, yeah, no, but obviously it is
it's all these things much more
simple.
Recruitment takes a lot of
time. A good recruitment process
It's incredibly powerful.
What is your recruitment process?
So first of all, we have a...
spreadsheet actually for tracking
huh, by the way, finally, a spreadsheet.
Excel spreadsheet, what.
No, it's more like Trello, but in
In fact, it's in that, it's a kind of
What the hell.
It could be in
Exactly. So, especially in fact the
I can give Kyber one for
So generally I recruit by doing a
message about oneself on Hacker News on
LinkedIn by saying that I am recruiting
recovers approximately 100 hp.
For every 100 hp, I keep 40 with me
pose with someone else for the
throw. I them
Look at the 100 or someone else is looking at them
Or watch them, huh. I watch them
100.
OK.
Honestly, there are plenty of CVs out there.
But you say a CV, you look at the profile
On LinkedIn, you don't ask for a CV. resume
if
No, but it's the same thing. It's what
What's the difference?
I don't know. Actually, no, there is
people still asking for CVs
Today. So, well,
There are heads. There are people who
people who send you your LinkedIn profile send you their LinkedIn profile.
PTV. For me, it's CV time in
line, huh.
Yes, indeed.
Okay, uh, and uh, in 10 seconds actually.
Yes. No, what?
Okay, so you have 40 left, so you see, you have
already divided by two a little more than by
to rest. You sit there, we'll...
pose a little more, especially with
someone else in general. Often the
For example, on Kyber the CO we look
and then we send an email to people in
checking if they are in the right place
you see, uh, of
in the right place. I have lots of people, he
they tell me "But actually, yeah, but in
Actually, I live in Türkiye and in fact
Yes, of course, I'm French, but
I am an expatriate
and so depending on where it is not
Definitely doable. Check that the
salary expectations, they work
What
from the very beginning. Yeah
yeah, wasting everyone's time
world in with someone who says yeah in
Do this to me, I want this, and you surrender.
realize that it's not at all in your
budget because you have a start-up in
side. No, that's not going to work. It's not
So there you go, you save time
And then I manage. So at the
That's it, you see, you have 20. And there,
we manage to, uh, make a
double interview. That is to say, in
Done, you schedule a one-hour interview.
In fact, what you did was
that you had two interviews. You killed
You have a Fit HR interview and a
first technical interview you put
at the same time. But actually, it's very
silly, but for the candidate, it makes him
One less interview.
Hm hm.
And then you do one or two
plus interviews. So actually it's
The guy had three or two interviews
interviews and you hire him/her right away
following. You see, it's you
Give a maximum time ideally between
So yes, but after that it's me
My theory is that you can't get through
more than a week.
OK
but in practice it's sometimes a bit
more complicated, but you see for example
when I was at Skalway
one year there were 100
people who were recruited on
the engineering department of 300 people. You see,
It's still extremely important.
for what it is. It has to be
once you have recruited the person
In fact, you have something that generates
automatically the contract with all
the information and not something where
You're still browsing Excel files
or Word documents and then
You get the onboarding process right away.
At Kyber, what's your
Um, your recruitment process? Are you going to
Are you recruiting there?
I'm recruiting a lot.
And what are you looking for? You're looking for that
Any tech for now? Um, so I
So, I'm looking, well, I'm almost there, I have
almost finished there for my recruits
tech. Uh, I
most of the tech industry, but
I have, uh, two or three people around me.
marketing, communication and a little bit
You see the meadows, the preparation of the
sales presentations. Uh, a lot of
the act of publicizing the solution
No, it takes a lot of time. Uh
I have a CO who is effectively acting as DAF for the RCH
and then lots and lots of little lawsuits
process and then so the whole part
sals. Me
Who do you sell to at Kber? So in Tales
potentially and to
Tales, Airbus, Meta, Apple. So no
Activision, but we have, uh, banks.
many insurance banks that
will really take part
remote desktop. But perhaps
we must, we must, maybe, we must
explain again what it is in a little more detail
Skyber detail. So. So I have two
three salsa stations. Uh, uh, there
Specifically, I'm looking for someone who
It's more about project management, that's all.
That's because there are actually a lot of
projects that are quite long
and actually I do almost exclusively
bis dev and I fill the pipeline
but to be sure that it converts well
The entire pipeline is long, and well, that's it.
very complex projects. Skyber,
It's a huge added value, but
So it's complex, it can be very
far from integration. Check that
it's practically project management
Sales with customer relationship management.
What does a bank buy from you? She
buys you access to a computer at
distance, a bit like we were talking about the
Cloud gaming later. SO
to prevent people from having computers
at their home with
Kyber, that's really about control of
remote machine.
OK. Uh, there is
four large vertical lines. The first
Actually, it's remote desktop access. SO
that's what the banks and the
insurance companies and many other people like
They buy from Citrix. This thing
absolutely horrible for the people who
use. It's so slow, it's
infernal.
There was something on PC too where you
I can take control of your PC.
A Team Viewer. What a nightmare.
It's very slow. Tuas your mouse that
wiggle a squib.
And Kyber. In fact, the goal is to have
as little lag as possible. So in fact
Indeed, there are times with
Kyber, you don't see the difference.
You see, for example, it's funny, I have
I once gave my mother a
iPad with Windows on it. Windows
It doesn't run on the iPad and Windows.
was running in the cloud and my mother she
he said to me, "Yes, well, why not?"
"Why are you showing your Windows?" And
I was OK. "OK, great. In fact, you..."
"I don't know what." And that's very, very
strong.
While she developed a mouse on a
on an iPad. So there you have it. So he
There are all the people who want one of these
which is called a sovereign CRIX, therefore
truly from the office to remote work. Uh, he
There are all the people who want an office
at a very high-performance remote control
including, you see, offices
studies, uh, CAD, uh, of
3D simulations, a bit like cloud gaming.
There you go, he has all that. And since we are
based on VLC, FFM PEG, in fact, Kyber,
It works everywhere. Windows, Linux, Mac
Android, Apple TV, Android TV,
Chromebook, it works on the web. SO,
In fact, it's much more usable
than in many cases. You see, the
People, he's holding on, well, I'm looking for a
Crux for Linux for a year now. Well
Yeah, we actually know how to do that. H and and
So there you have it, that's the first case
customary. So here it's more like, so I have
banks, insurance companies, uh, so...
big it uh and then game studios
potentially videos of, uh,
people like EDF who will be in CAD
In fact. Uh yeah, CAD, basically.
Next I have the second topic which is
3D or XR streaming remotely.
That's actually XR
uh, augmented reality, what? Mixed reiteration
in what is called mixed reality. Uh
actually because, well, to do the
The result is too complicated, it consumes too much energy.
Too much power, you need
large cardiography in the cloud.
So basically you do the rendering and you
stream, you'll be able to stream it in
glasses, in many devices
Lighter, you see. So, this is about
3D simulations, we have stuff
industrial companies, for example.
And that's pretty cool, you know. And so in
Do what you can control, it's not a
A computer is just a program.
Hm.
And so, there you have it, that's what we
It's already sold out today, right? And
Then, well, you can use that.
to control robots remotely.
Then you have lots of types of
robots. There are rolling robots or
flying, we call them rovers or
drones or self-driving cars. But
It also works for, in fact, it's just
that are underwater too. That's where he begins
to have quite a few submarines. So
So this is a type of drone, finally
He's just like Ramatan and all that.
I imagine it must be super
interesting. I don't know if you have them
You know, or maybe you have the same one.
I don't know Armatan, I knew him
a bit like the people of Helsing, but that's what
that kind of thing and you obviously have
Then all the robots, so not too many
industrial robots because the
industrial robots, they are in
in very controlled surroundings, they have already
solutions so they control their
latency but everything that is robotic
humanoids, anything that is robotic
surgical
and lots of other types of robots, uh
In life, in fact, you need
Nothing is 100% autonomous, and so you have
need either to monitor, therefore, the
remote observation
potentially, in fact, to make
metrics or video analytics
automatic and if necessary say "Ah there is
a problem and so someone will
regain control and therefore of the
remote machine control."
And you take that good on the hardware, right?
we still did well
torn apart by the Chinese who have
put a battery pretty much everywhere. Uh
Finally, regarding humanoids, there is
a few Americans though, uh, with
Tesla, Boston Robotics, Boston Dynamics,
uh, something like that. There are some
a few. Uh, even on drones.
Okay, I think drone, it's starting to
to find a way back to France
some drones. But the ones about robots
humanoids, there are French ones, some
Europeans,
There was Pollen Roboti which was made
acquired by Ging Face.
We have Enchant Tools, right, of of of
Jerome from the former Dal. We now have
even this start-up called
Huma. Uh,
Are you going to introduce me to one or two? How are you
That's nice. Do you know them?
Yeah, of course.
And, uh, but them and all that, the Chinese and
They already have all of that.
what you are doing there, what you are proposing or
no way ? H
Not really, because right now...
What I do is software development
for robots and the whole stack a little bit
Cloud-based robotics for observation.
Not the OS, but the software.
Yeah, I do middleman work for robots.
and drones. And besides, we have for
We also did our demos, by the way.
manufactured our own drones and our
Own robots, huh. But it's...
very cheap 3D-printed stuff, but
limit. My need is to show the
ability. I'm not here to manufacture
the stepper motor, to manage the
battery profiling and so on. I
I really am. Besides, what I know
The "doing" part is software.
First-layer software, basically. Not
Not too much, at least the first coat.
I don't know what you mean by first
layer.
No, but very close to very close to
hardware. That's what I mean.
Yes, absolutely. Because in fact you
You need to understand, in fact, one
robot, an autonomous car or a robot,
There are 10 cameras, 15 cameras.
Yeah. Yeah. Of the
microphones, sensors
temperature, pressure, lidar,
things and so on. And you want
retrieve all of this, save it for
to be able to create AI models for
the power that it is the AIs that
control these machines or just to
to check that everything is alright, in order to make
telemetry for observation because
You see, defense drones, that's
That's why you were talking to me about defense
But for me, that's not the main issue.
1 but defense drones actually you
You don't care about safety, your drone...
he is going to die, he is on a field of
It's a battle anyway, you see.
It doesn't cost very much compared to
a human life compared even to
a submachine gun or something.
Yeah, weapons don't actually cost anything.
It depends on the drones. But
Yes, yes, absolutely.
