After Nika the sun god, Niog the
war god, here comes Zaza, the
rain goddess.  Mythological god of the
One Piece pantheon.  Gods who
3000 years ago waged war for
world hegemony, and their battle
is still relevant today.  Or not, or not.
Keyir Roda tells us that from the beginning
in One Piece, the gods do not exist
and that men are not afraid of them
but rather of the fear they
embody.  Hello everyone and welcome
to Moncorveau.  This is Camaltero and this is
Kitaro.  And here is the rain god.
This is the sun god.  But then,
who is the god of the forest and who is the god of
the earth?  Don't worry, we'll
answer all these questions in
the analysis of One Piece chapter 1182.   If
you love the Lord, welcome to Lord
Piece.  Do you have any questions?  We have
answers.  So to make sure you don't miss anything
from the One Piece series, if you haven't already, don't hesitate
to
subscribe to the channel – let's aim for a million
subscribers.  This is quite exceptional for
a niche One Piece channel.  So a
big thank you to all those who have followed us
for so long and welcome to all
the new rookies.  I
sincerely hope you are
comfortably seated because it's
too late.  That's it, the gods have
taken possession of One Piece, they are
everywhere, they are too strong and there is more than enough
for them.  Nothing and no
one will ever be able to stop them.
Or maybe from the beginning
, it's just
이하다가
조진
[music][chant]
내려와
내 행o [music]
[chant]
Hello!  Hey world!  The world.  Ah, you
can see me here, Camaltero, the
brilliant archaeologist.  What I'm about to tell you
may shock you, but it's the
truth, quasard.  In short, let's start with the
conclusion.  The link is in the
description.
Well, in reality, the world around you
and to discover it, you just need
to use my new invention Nord
VPN available on all your Muji devices
but also on your connected TV, tablet,
computer and phone.
Thanks to this legendary new application
, you will be able to change your
IP address and connect from anywhere
in the world with a single click.  Don't
make the same mistake as me and
Kohara Miskina.  Protect your assets,
protect your personal data because
Nord VPN is first and foremost the
ultimate security for browsing the web like
on the Grand Line.  Protect yourself against
scams, fraud, and
malware.  With
professional threat protection, your data
remains your data and goes nowhere
else.  But above all,
never let your government make you
believe that you don't have the right to enjoy yourself
.  Connect to an
American server, for example, to enjoy the
exclusive catalogue of Disney Plus or
Netflix and even Amazon Prime to see
the latest releases before
France.  Ah, I don't have much time left.
So quickly, as I said at the beginning,
head straight to the description to take advantage
of our exclusive Quassar offer.  4 months
free with a 2-year subscription and a
30-
day money-back guarantee.  This was Camaltero at
your service.
Sodo,
we thought they were KO'd.  And no, I'm
not talking about Somers or Killingham,
but rather about Sanji and Zoro.  Because
yes, Etioda is fulfilling another
great Neketsu promise for
his El Baff arc.  On one side, we have
our two wings of the pirate king Rorono
Zoro and Sanji Vinmok who are damaged.
They're not in great shape, and
yet they say we're not
finished yet.  On the other side, however, we have
Somers and Guillingan.  Perhaps the two
biggest repeat offenders in the entire
history of One Piece.  The guys are
indestructible, especially one more than
the other,
literally indestructible.   They
say, "The mission is
not over, we will continue to harass the
children of Elbaff."  It's endless.
So, if we saw Zoro and Sanji competing
with Somers and Guillingham a
few chapters ago, it was an opportunity
for Franky to highlight the power of
the Straw Hat crew.  We are far
too powerful, we are in the territory of a
Yonko.  Now Saint Limooshif and
Saint Shepard, both are boosted by
OM.  And that's a whole different
ball game.  When we see Somers in
previous chapters making a
gigantic jump, here we see Superman
carrying a gigantic boat and
I emphasize gigantic because it is
a giant's boat after all.  It's a
little reminiscent of
Jesus Burgess' Devil Fruit, which could lift
entire mountains.  This confrontation suits
Roronoiso well, Mr. Biceps,
Mr. Bushido, who will have to face, well,
Somers, who possesses a
very, very, very large ron sword.  So
the objective of these fights for Etiroda
is of course the hate of kings because
remember to overcome these
divine knights, you have to use the
hate of kings to cancel their
regeneration power.  That's what
Gaban told us.  The gains of conquerors are
useless if we do not know how to
use them.  That's perfect, Zoro here has the
perfect training to develop and
master the knowledge of the kings he
awakened on Onigashima.  On Sanji's side
, we are all convinced that the
second prince of the pirate king must
also possess this royal awakening, his
ambitions of conqueror.  But since he is
always a little behind Zoro, this
fight against Killingham may
serve to
awaken his knowledge of kings,
explaining the comic situation when
Gaban was talking about Akidrois users
among the Mugiwara and Zoro made him not care
but Sanji was
very interested.  The narrative goal here is
therefore for Zoro and Sanji to offer us at
the end of their confrontation
new key techniques named from
their acquisition of kings and thus succeed
in overcoming the regeneration of the
divine knights, to reach,
remember, their mechanical heart and
destroy it once and for all.
And speaking of technique, this time we're
heading to the fight that pits
Imoun eterona against Loky, but definitely
not Dog.  An opportunity to discover the
new name of an imu attack, namely
Titimitre or more precisely
solar eclipse bombardment.  And this
attack, solar eclipse bombardment,
it reads in fouagana tsui for
eclipse and myre for bombardment.  And
now if you pronounce it together
it sounds like tsimitre.
And Xitsimitre, especially referred to in the plural as
titsimimes, are
female, skeletal, somewhat
terrifying creatures that come from
Astec mythology.  And these creatures,
their goal is that every 52 years,
when we change the calendar, it's kind of
their big year at the atheques,
they come to earth if we have the
misfortune to forget to do the mega
festival where we relight the fire.  And that,
the Asthècs were very afraid of.   We
really needed to make a good fire
because otherwise, like small
meteorites, they would come down to earth
to devour all the humans.  And so it is not
surprising to find in one of the
attacks of the original demon of One
Piece the very incarnation of demons who
come to devour humans because
Imou will ultimately be the
crystallization of all the
demonic folklore of our world through
all the cultures of history.  Imou, as
we have seen, is a bit like the
representation of Satan in
Christianity, his private circle being
Yo-kai, the Japanese demonic creatures,
and now on the other side
of the world again, we have the
Astèc mythology and its own demons.  But what
is even more beautiful here is that you
saw it and Tiroda, he did not do this by
chance since the Titsimimim or the
Titsimitre, she intervenes at the obycle
as if to prevent men from
starting a new hobe.
literally the Nemesis of the new
hob.  To transpose this into One Piece,
the TSIim have only one goal: to prevent
Nika's new OB from appearing.
[grunt]
[throat clearing]
This is one of the main motifs of
One Piece more than 20 years ago and
told us through the revered words that
men do not fear God but the
fear he embodies.  Nearly 1000 chapters
and 20 years later, the author
applies his words literally
thanks to the power of Gillingham.  Say
hello to Zaza, the goddess of rain or
rather, should I say, the embodiment
of the fear that the
divine knights feel.  Indeed, here with the
rain goddess, just as Guillingham's powers
allowed him to represent
Nika and Ni through the anxieties and
fears of children, baff, we
therefore have here only the representation
that Guillingham makes of this goddess of
whom he is so afraid.  It's great that
Chiroa literally uses
nightmares to create dumbbells equal
to human beings because you
know that dreams say a lot
about you.  If in a dream you
lose your teeth, which is often
very common, it does not mean that
you are afraid of losing your teeth.  That
means you are anxious.  That
means you're stressed.
When a child dreams of Nika having a
weird little beard, it does not mean
that Nika has a beard, it is because he is
making a version of her bath since it is
all her folklore, all her
identity and he therefore
immediately associates her with the land of war and
violence.  What will interest us
initially about Zaza
is her title, the goddess of rain.
And that makes us think of this.   As
you know, Adam's fresco predicts
the future.  And since
chapter 1138 we definitely had rain
on the Elf fresco.  One way or
another, this rain, this goddess,
will therefore have a role to play in the
final war.  But if today
we know that Mounki Luffy is Nika, the
sun god, who could Zaza be, the
rain goddess?  To find out, we
need to go back 400 years.
On August 11, 2003, 23 years ago, we
witnessed a human sacrifice.  In
exchange for the young woman, the
Chandian people in chapter 287
implored the gods to save their
village.  More specifically, they were
addressing four
different deities.  That of the sun, the
rain, the forest and the earth.  So
naturally, for years, nobody
had paid any attention to them.  After
all, these were just inventions
on the part of the Chandian people, who were unable
to understand that their village was
only afflicted by
tree disease.  But that was until
one of them appeared.  Yes, it took
18 years for the
sun god to be mentioned again in
the manga, and his name is Nika.  So
naturally, it's Epiphany.  We
remember that Luffy was already dancing like the
liberating warrior around the giant fire
of Skypeia.  We remember that it was
closest to the sun.  And finally, we
remember that almost 20 years before the
Colossus mentioned his name in chapter
114,
the sun god was already mentioned there in
chapter 287.
But that was only the beginning.  Thus, 4
years later, it was the turn of the
forest god to be mentioned in the
sacred text of Hy.  I quote, 2nd world, the god
of the forest sent his demons.  One year
later, Etiro Oda does it again and
unveils Zaza, the rain goddess.  That's it
, the author confirms that he does indeed
intend to gradually reveal
the Chandian gods to us.  Because
today, we know two out of
four, Nika and Zaza.  The two gods
appear at their
own rhythm, one with drums and
the other to the rhythm of the rain.  But
then, if the Chandian gods
appear in music, where it
gets interesting, is that
Immunerona does too.  This would mean that
the king of the world could be one of the
four gods mentioned in Jaya and therefore either the one
of the earth or of the forest who,
as the haly said, sent his
demons.  A description that
perfectly matches Imou, who deploys
his divine knights on earth and is
surely even at the origin of the
devil fruits, making Imou a true god
alongside Nika and Zaza.  So
why that name?  You might say
simply because it
actually represents onomatopoeia.  Nika is used
to represent a bright smile and
Zaza is used to represent a
driving rain.  So you'll see
Nika when Luffy smiles and Zaza
when the rain falls on the world.   Well, well, just like
when Monkey Dragon
first appeared in the
manga.  After all, he is the
government's biggest threat and his powers
seem to be linked to the weather.  issue.  Zaza is
not a god but the first
goddess of manga.  But then, if we
know today that the sun god
exists and that he is Monkidi the son, who
could become the rain goddess?
Are you ready?  Here are our three
best candidates.
[groan]
[scream]
After 3 years of civil war, the country
of Alabasta, plunged into a nightmare,
sees its sons killing each other.  The Barworks
has fallen, the country is saved, but they don't
know it yet.  They no longer have
enemies, but one by one, the children
of Alouarna fall in battle.  They
die in the dust and feel it
when all of a sudden
the rain falls, it dissipates the
fog and in the distance a voice can be
heard.  That's it, the war is
over.  As if the heavens had heard
Princess Nefertari Vivi's cry for help
, the rain has finally
returned to calm the anger of men.
We are at chapter 210 and the
breakdown of the tirodas leaves no
room for doubt.  The wind carries the
princess's cry and makes it
rain.  A cry that is not unlike that of
another princess on the
other side of the world.  The very young
Shiraoshi, upon seeing her mother
kidnapped in chapter 625, screams in
panic.  A cry from the heart that the sky
seems to hear in Vivi and that
the ocean seems to hear in Shiraoshi.
Today, we know that Shiraoshi
is Poseidon, one of the three
ancient weapons capable of commanding the kings
of the seas.  So naturally, for
years, the theory has been that Vivi could
also be an ancient Uranus weapon because it is
linked to the sky, explaining why Imouit
absolutely possesses her in chapter 1086.
In reality, she could also be
the incarnation of Zaza, the
rain goddess, capable of bringing down a deluge
on Marie Joise.
We have to take it into account, and could
all of this be a
coincidence?  Was it really Vivi who
summoned the rain, or was it dense
powder?  Powder used by the
Barocworks to
artificially produce rain?
Ina, a marine colonel,
asks Smoker these questions in chapter 212. Where is
this rain coming from?  Don't tell me you
used dance powder.  To which the
white hunter replies, "Don't talk
nonsense."  At least I know how to distinguish what
is legal from what is not.
King Cobra hasn't refrained from
using it all this time just so
I can ruin his efforts now.  One
thing is certain, the rain that put an
end to the Alabasta civil war was
indeed natural.  She doesn't come from
dance powder and madness, she comes from
heaven and Vivi may be the one who
summoned her.  Finally, one element that
always supports the princess
is simply Zaza's physique
.  Long dresses, gowns and oriental veils
that remind us of the
traditional outfits of Alabasta.  Moreover, since Vivi is
always linked to the color blue
through her hair and outfits, she is
reminiscent of the color of water.
Thus, closely linked to Imou,
the history of the world government and
the rain, Nefertari di Vivi is
clearly one of the best
candidates to become alongside Nika
the sun god, the new Dité of
One Piece.  Zaza, the goddess of rain.
[scream]
Vivi DS of the rain [music] it works
perfectly until Vivi
herself recognizes that there is something better.
Yes, I'm talking about a woman who can
read the sky, a witch who, with
her staff, can summon lightning and
unleash storms as if the ocean itself
obeyed her.
Remember, we are at chapter
130 and Vivi can't believe it.  Although
the cyclones of the Grand Line are
known to be completely
unpredictable, Nami does
not simply predict the weather based
solely on
theoretical knowledge.  I quote, "It's as if
she feels its changes with her
whole [music] body. After all,
for many readers, she is already
a goddess. So who better to
embody the goddess of rain than the
greatest of navigators?"  Nami has everything
to become the incarnation of the goddess
Zaza and it starts simply with
Zeus being able, thanks to the Black Ball, to
grow infinitely and create a
real torrent.  It is therefore in
chapters 1176 and 1177 that Nami, thanks to
her cloud, makes a torrential rain fall
on the owl's library
in front of Gillingham.  It would
therefore be very touching to learn later
that, without even knowing it, Saint Limoshiv had just
encountered his
greatest nightmare here.  But above all, we
know that if the celestial dragons
fear the rain, it is
simply because nestled at 10000 m
[music] height, Marieoise is
above the clouds and therefore it is
frightening for the Ryubito themes to
imagine a storm because they
simply do not know
rain.  That's convenient because even if there is
no cloud above Redline, Nami
has one that accompanies her
everywhere, and Zus could therefore become the
nightmare of an entire nation.  Also, just
like Vivi since Alabasta, the
veil works perfectly for Nami,
who wears it not yet on her face
but on her head in several
cover pages.  Thanks to her weather magic,
her extensive knowledge of
science and weather from her
training on Wizoria and the
teachings of Adas, Nami, since the
beginning of the manga, is the One
Piece character linked to clouds and rain.  In
every arc, every confrontation, she
uses the weather to her advantage.  And it is
thanks to one of these most
cult techniques that we would have the explanation of
Zaza's four arms which would
actually be an illusion, that of the Mirage
Tempo Fata Morgana.  Remember, it is
against Khalifa that Nami is forced to
surpass herself and with a witch's trick,
she creates mirages.  Each [music]
of these images is capable of moving
in unison with the real Nami
precisely because of their
reflective nature.  Nami here therefore has multiple
bodies and therefore multiple arms.  And even
if the technique was not perfected at the
time on Enies lobby, imagine the
powerup of this strategy because the
Fata Morgana and the Mirage most well known
among sailors, the navigator could
become gigantic.  A technique that
coupled with Zus around her like an
agoromo [music] behind her
would allow N ami to become a
true multi-armed goddess and
above all capable of unleashing a veritable
torrent upon the world.
Sent
[cri]
we are
The greatest fears do not
always come from the unknown, but from what
accompanies us silently every day
until it becomes
invisible Indeed, we know that the
world nobility, although above the
world, knows nothing of it and its
history, but especially of the one who
rules it.  The proof is in chapter 1114 where
Saint Carlia wonders about the name of the
forgotten century revealed by Vegapunk.  We
also know that Panga's guards
are frightened by a certain
ghost room with dangerous secrets and
that finally the guards disappear if they
learn too much about Nika.  In short, in
reality, Imu Nerona was never
an ally of the celestial dragons or the
divine knights.  Because the king is ready to do
anything to protect her existence and
especially her secrets, even killing her
closest allies.  As we can see
on Elbaff, the divine knights are
afraid of their masters.  Thus, just as
they fear the bearers of the or
the Davy clan, the Ten Rubito and the
divine knights fear the
rain goddess who could therefore
simply be imou but in her
human form, explaining why her
silhouette on Pangya does not resemble
her physique on Elbaff at all.  A
more delicate silhouette that led
all readers to believe for 8 years
that it was a woman.  Today, the
veil on Zaza's face,
revealing only her eyes,
reminds us once again of
Imou's silhouette, who seems to wear a veil
hiding her face except for her eyes.  Finally,
just like the king of the world, Zaza has
a circle on her back, reinforcing the
parallel between the two.  Thus, Imu
could also be the goddess of
rain because she, along with Moer Flame, will
engulf the world under water, something
the Enubito fear and which explains the
construction of the Wolf mega-structures
undertaken 700 years ago.
Gigantic bridges to survive a
potential rise in eos.  IMU has
never claimed to be on the side of the
world government.  Imou is only on
IMU's side.  And perhaps that is what the
divine knights fear deep down
, that their master may
never have been their ally.
One
of the main subjects of BF, one of its
biggest themes, is
clearly fear.  What we fear,
whether it be children or even
divine knights.  And it's interesting
because as early as chapter 1142, Gunko
told us that her greatest fear
was Nika herself.  Today, the identity
of Somers and Gilingham is
revealed to us, and it is Zaza.  A pattern is
clearly emerging.  The fears and
anxieties of the divine knights are in
reality the gods who were
presented to us during the sacrifice in the
past of Calgara and Norland.  And so if
we have the sun god and the
rain god who really scare the
divine knights, no doubt that
later, another knight will probably
reveal to us the names of the
earth god and the forest god who would
also be alters, aliases of
characters who will appear and who have
already appeared in One Piece for
years.  Proof of this is with the H, which
literally quoted the god of the
forest.  That was barely three
volumes ago.  We're not going to waste our time theorizing
about the names because if they're all
onomatopoeias that define the sounds
each of the gods makes, they'll
probably all end up with an a like Zaza Nika.
We could have said, for example, that the one
for the earth is Goula because that's
the sound an earthquake makes
.  Goula, god of the earth, is
above all the demon fruit of
Whitebeard and his iconic laugh.  But you
can see that we're not very far from that.
But the problem is that the noise
of the sun is Pica.  That's the
feeling of light and
sunbeams.  So if his name is Nika, it's
primarily because of the smile and the sound
Luffy's smile makes when he
laughs.  So it is possible at any moment,
it is impossible to guess what
the true name of the god of the forest and
the god of the earth will be.  But if there is one
thing we can be sure of, it is that just
as the 10 are our heroes in One
Piece and are the greatest
fears of the Tenrubito, if the four
gods are prayed to by the Chandians,
it is undoubtedly because they are the
four great calamities that have
always frightened the divine knight.  And
now we're touching on a
very sensitive subject in the community, and what
Echoda is, isn't she kind of going off the
rails that One Piece is becoming a
divine manga and no longer a human one?  After
all, it's true, we now have the
god of war, we have the god of the
sun, we have the god of rain, we have
military gods.  There we have it, a
true pantheon.  But I will
reassure some of you here by saying that
since the beginning of his manga, Echoda has been quite
consistent in his statements.
From the beginning, Echoda puts faith at the
center of the narrative, but not in the way we usually
understand it.  In reality, the divine in One
Piece comes from the human being.  It stems
from his desire for evolution and therefore from the
fruits of the devil.  Indeed, from the very beginning of the
Skypaw arc which revolves around the figure of
God, Ganfort, himself a god of Skypaw,
told us in black and white that gods do
not exist in the land of men.  More
than 20 years later, Etiroda, through the
greatest of scientists, will confirm his
words by telling us that since
Devil Fruits exist and are the
materialization of human evolution,
it is no longer useful, I quote, to
ask whether the gods exist.  For what
?  Simply because with a
Devil Fruit, we are all someone's god.
With a Logia, with a Paramessia, with
a Zoan, you can destroy an
entire city.  You can take a country by storm
, you are a god.  Kaido with the
"Uo" huonomi, Azure Dragon model, is
proof of this.  Crocodile, with his Tsunomi,
is proof of this.  Doflamingo with his ho
Itonomie, we are proof of that.  And what about
Whitebeard?  The
strongest man in the world who, I quote, S Goku
had the power to destroy the world.
To civilians around
the world, Whitebeard was a true god.
So it's purely a matter of
perspective.  And actually in One Piece, yes,
gods exist but they are not what
you think.  All those who bear
the name of god in One Piece are very
quickly punished by the author, brought back
to their mortal status with
what?  A good, hard kick in their
faces.  to show that they are bleeding.  The
celestial dragons, the Goloseille, Ener and
now Imu, Nerona.  All those who
think they're gods in One Piece
end up paying a very high price.
Imagine today, really in 2026,
you have the powers of Monkid Luffy
in gear fif.  You can be this
completely crazy white shape, you'll
go, I don't know, to New York CD there
everyone will take you for a real
god.  No, but that's ludicrous.  You
ate a disgusting plum, I
remind you.  That's all.  And the real
question is, by doing it so often, won't
you yourself start to think
that you're a bit of a god?  So
if you're saying we're
extrapolating, I'll tell you that
the whole issue of divinity is raised with the
Straw Hats in volume 106. I quote,
"When Vegapunk discovers
Luffy's white form, he says,
'He looks like that god
mentioned only in
ancient writings.' To which Sandi replies, 'A
god? We're talking about Luffy, a
complete idiot.' It's all a
matter of
perspective. Of course, the guy with
his powers of imagination looks like
a god to the rest of the world. But
for his companions who have been around him for
years, he's just the guy,
a human being who ate a
Devil Fruit and, thanks to its
powers, transformed into a god. And
this chapter proves it, since it's
even stated in the
dialogue bubbles that Zaza comes from the
surface. Zaza doesn't come from
some Mount Olympus or some other cosmos.
Zaza and  You're mistaken, because Zaza lives on Earth.
Faith is always central to
Echiroda's narrative and always a driving force for
transformation. However, with all
the different cultures across the Grand
Line, everyone will have their own
interpretation. And that's what's
magnificent when you see that the
Chandians speak of gods of
rain, earth, forest, and
sun. When you see that on Wano,
they speak of these
Devil Fruit powers as true
yok-kai, as true deities,
and as monsters that don't exist, like the
Ka for Kawamatsu. In truth, the
fish-men on Elbaff, who
also don't know about Devil Fruits, speak
of deities, of Nika, and
also of Ratatosque. All
cultures have their own folklore, their
own interpretation of Vegapunk's hypothesis
and therefore of the nature of
Devil Fruits. But what a
Devil Fruit is, above all, is what
the person makes of it, and therefore what decides whether it
becomes a god for some, a demon
for others.  Others. You know us
by now. That's why, for
years, we've been arguing that
the author is actually making us believe he's going off
in all sorts of directions within
a pantheon of divine gods from 3,000
years ago, when in reality he's
simply refocusing the
story on characters we already know.
After all, Shiraoshi is just a
mermaid princess. She's the daughter of
her father and mother and the sister of her
brothers. Yet, she bears the name of a
god. She's capable of destroying the
world. Luffy is Nika because people
believed in Nik. As Vegapunk
told us, as long as there are people to
conceptualize the idea of ​​God, God will
never die because God is, above
all, human. And we didn't just pull all this out of thin air
, you know. No, it's
simply the narrative mechanics of
Chiroda. How does he construct
his story? How does he, as an
author, tell the story he wants to tell?  How to
tell the story? This
chapter proves it, or rather, we learn about
Ratatosque himself. And here, ladies and
gentlemen, we're getting into the juicy part
of this chapter, since
we told you all about it almost three months ago. In
this world, when something
strange happens, the first explanation is
always a Devil Fruit. Elbaff is no exception
to this rule, and the
giants, for their part, don't know about
Devil Fruits. No warrior
possesses any power except Loki,
so they must think Ratatosque
actually exists, when it's probably a
Devil Fruit combined with a weapon,
like Funkfed the sword
who ate the Elephant Fruit and
Assault the gun who ate the
Dog Fruit. So yes, it's official: we
finally learn in this chapter that
Ratatosque isn't a
mythological animal, but rather a
Devil Fruit [grunt]. It's actually
a certain hammer
named Ragnir.  who would have ingested the
Lisou Lisou Nomi Fruit of the
Ratatosk Model Squirrel. [grunt]
This mythological squirrel possesses
ice powers.
It's a family reunion. Imou is
reunited with Niidog and Ratatosk, and there's
a huge history of betrayal, but
also of nostalgia, which is very
important for a character who here
seems to have a lot of
affection for her adversaries, whom she
recognizes as if they were former
allies. This makes us think of
chapter 1043 and Zuncha's reaction
when the thousand-year-old elephant reunited with
Joy Boy. He said it
himself: the sound of the drums made him
nostalgic. Only here, Imou will
address herself directly to the
fruits, not the former
users. Indeed, directly to
the squirrel, directly to Nika, and
directly to [ __ ]. She won't say,
"Hm, Floky, you're back with N Dog."  No,
she's not talking about a former user,
but about the fruit itself.  All of this,
as we were saying, was always done with a
lot of tenderness, as if they were
a little bit like his children.  But then, does that mean
that Devil Fruits are
alive?  They are aimed directly
at fruit.  Well yes, because
remember, it is from Onigashima
that we have confirmation that the
Ohan possess their own will, that they are
indeed fruits that act
according to their desires.  That is why, for
example, the Hitoonomi Nika only let itself be
eaten by Mony. When
Imou speaks of Ni Dog as a traitor,
she is not addressing the former
user who betrayed her, but rather
the fruit itself that abandoned her,
explaining her reaction in chapter 1175
when Imou understood that in reality Ni
Dog, the fruit, had been hiding all this time
for 800 years on Elbaffou. She told us
during all this time, Ni Dog, you were
there.  So, fruits that escape,
that do things like that, it seems
weird but it also reminds us of
predestined objects forged in other
times, like for example the One Ring
in The Lord of the Rings.  A ring
that possesses a will of its own, that of
Saoron, and which can therefore run away,
grow larger, shrink smaller, and which is a
character in its own right.  The reason we know
that the Hitoonomi escaped the
government for 8 centuries is
not because it has small legs,
but because it
somehow managed to express its
will and find Joy Boy.  To
continue with the analogy of
the One Ring, in the end, we could
have Imou Sauron who forged
Rings a long time ago, who
therefore corrupted the earth with his
powers.  who would know how to forge
the rings of power for him.  Imou, as a
millennia-old mega-antagonist, would be the
demon who created the fruits.  And here
we have a crazy theory.  That was
the instant epiphany for us.  We thought,
"Wait, this is going to sound crazy, but
the first time you hear it is
here. Imou Nerona and the tree of the
devil's fruits."  Yes, even when he first
appeared on Elbaff, the king of this
world had a special power devil fruit card as his title card
.  But actually, well,
that's literally his special power,
it's to create Devil Fruits.  That
would explain why we're telling you this,
Imou seems to crystallize all the
powers of the great antagonists of One
Piece, a bit like a final boss.  And above all, that's
why Iou is in a
flowery room.  And that would be the
biggest plot twist.  There are flowers, there
is grass, there is beautiful
photosynthesis.  But where is
this tree?  Where is the tree
that bears fruit?  In fact, it is
Immunerona who, thanks to his maki, his
demonic acquisition, his omen, could
materialize the devil fruits thanks to his special power
.  Special power,
fruit creation.  Think of imou as a
true incubator, like an oven.
You give him a little of your wish,
your desires, coupled with your soul, he
takes the two, mixes them together and
gives you a devil fruit.  That is
why she addresses the
Devil Fruits by name.  That is why the
fruits would matter more than their
users, who themselves are very
different over time.  But what
never changes is the fruit.  It is
these kids, it is these devil fruits that
are immutable and therefore depending on the
holder to evoke certain
betrayals over time.  Let's imagine
with Blackbeard's fruit, which
seems so made-up to us, the fruit
of darkness.  If we learn that
800 years ago, it was a really cool ace guy
he owned, well, it seems like
a betrayal that today it belongs to
Blackbeard.  The proof is in
the gouragi.  All One Piece fans
still find it horrible that it was
Whitebeard's fruit that
is now in Blackbeard's hands
.  So there you have it, maybe
Immunerona has always been in the
Fleurri room.  Imounerona cannot therefore
leave the Fleurri room without
consequence because if she created
Marieoise at the top of the world, it is
because she needs the sun.
Perhaps it's because she's the one who gives
birth to the Devil Fruit.  So it
may sound stupid when put like that, but
in reality it goes totally in line with
Imunerona's speech in the
previous chapter concerning the
corruption of the world for power and
therefore domination.  Indeed, if we know
that according to Vegapk's theory, Devil Fruits
represent the desire, the longing
of human beings to evolve constantly
and constantly and constantly, how did
all of this materialize
one day in fruits?  Simply put, it's
because they're called devil fruits that you have to
make a pact
with the devil in order to get something in return.  Thus, IMU was able
800 years ago to respond to
humanity's ever-increasing demand for more.
And in exchange for the power of a
Devil Fruit, the devil could corrupt the
world.  Imou would therefore literally be
the origin of all the Devil Fruits and
addresses them today as his
children.  However, the OANs who
possess their own will have
betrayed him.
[scream]
But don't let all this distract you
from the fact that Gerd has found his
magic fingers again.  And yes, Chopper is involved.   All that's missing is
Stenson's leg and
that's it, he'll suffer zero damage.
However, this is not the case for Gunko who,
according to Gillingham and Somers, appears to be
completely dead.  That's it, the
divine knights are doing their
divine knight thing and abandoning their comrades
outright.  Not even the benefit of the
doubt, this is Chao Gunko.  And
so Chiroda begins the redemption of the character
who, remember, before Imou
took possession of his body, had
regained his personality.  She
remembered Brook, and so if her
fellow divine knights
abandoned her, we can confirm without a
shadow of a doubt that she will be
taken in by Brook and the Straw Hats.
