[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. On this
episode, LOL Baron, Ben Brown, and Brad
Hiler, three of our senior real estate
leaders, talk about recent market
dynamics and notable activities since
our last update, including the state of
the business today and the forces
driving our investment strategy. Here's
their conversation.
So, hi, Brad. I'm a managing partner
overseeing our European real estate
business and co-president uh globally.
Uh I'm now 15 years uh at Brookfield. Um
spent the first roughly five in New York
and and been in Europe since then in
London. Always good to be back in New
York with with Ben and LOL, longtime
colleagues and looking forward to the
conversation.
>> Yeah. Hey guys. Hey everyone. Ben Brown
here. Uh I lead our real estate business
in the Americas. uh also a co-president
of our global real estate business. Also
been around Brookfield for about 15
years uh and headquartered here in New
York.
>> Great. And hi Lel Baron, CEO of our real
estate business. Great to be here with
you guys. I I've been with Brookfield a
little longer than both of you, so 20
years now, which is hard to believe. Um
but it's great to sit down now and sort
of rehash where where we see the market
environment what's happening on the
ground across the globe in our markets
in our sectors and and really you know
we did this maybe 18 months ago in in a
relatively formal setting just talking
through what we saw. I think it's good
to sort of update at that time we were
saying this is probably the one of the
best investing environments we've seen
in a long time. Uh why don't we start
there like what do you guys think? Have
we has it have we been right? Is that
what we're seeing over these last 18
months?
>> I I'll start. Uh I think in the moment
it never feels as obvious or as right,
but it still feels really really good.
It still feels like there's enough
volatility and uncertainty which creates
a tremendous amount of uh opportunities
for us across our business globally for
sure. Uh but it definitely feels like
markets have improved and when I look
back at the activity that we've done
really across our the entirety of our
real estate business the last year uh it
feels like we've accomplished a lot in
what has been a relatively difficult
environment. So I would say yeah on
balance it still feels really good.
>> I think it's um mostly played out but
maybe with some fits and starts. It
hasn't been a straight line. I think
things have uh certainly
improved in in terms of the volume of
transactions over the last 18 months and
certainly there's capital that's come
back into the sector. We obviously had
some success in uh wrapping up our last
fund raise. Um
but it I think things picked up towards
the end of last year and the beginning
of this year, but then another bout of
uncertainty globally with geopolitics
sort of threw things sideways at least
for a couple of months. And now maybe
things are starting to open back up
again. As you said, Ben, we we've um
we've had some success in in monetizing,
you know, a bunch of large businesses in
very select sectors around the world.
We've continued to deploy capital maybe
not quite at the pace that at least I
would have expected 18 months ago just
because that that bit ass spread is
still there and persistent and and just
general level of uncertainty is I think
holding back a bit of the activity that
we thought would come through. I think
we still expect it to come through and
the back half of the year should be um
should pick up in pace and I think be a
lot busier than maybe Q2 was um by
example.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I I might pick up on that
because I think I think it has played
out as we thought, but probably what's
been most surprising to me has been it's
been a pretty slow recovery. And so, you
know, normally you think as capital
starts to come back in, people see that
the fundamentals are good and then you
expect that capital that builds and the
capital builds and then quickly you see
pricing recovering and transaction
market recovering and that's happening
but very slowly. Uh actually it's
fantastic as an investor. It's a great
time because sometimes you worry that
those great periods of time are too
short, but here we've had a good runway
and I think it continues for a while
which is allowing us to put capital to
work in really attractive ways. Um, and
I and I think that volatility in the
market will continue to make the this
time a good opportunity particularly if
you can be global and you can move
around the markets and do different
sectors and different regions and really
be dynamic in where you see the
opportunities. Uh, that plays to our
strength.
>> Yeah. And that feels like what we've
definitely seen the last year where
really now across the globe whether it's
in our business our business in Asia
Pacific our business in Europe or even
now North America which probably felt
the last couple months maybe the least
liquid we've done really large
transactions in terms of exits and
that's just proven around the globe for
the right kind of business the right
kind of assets with the right kind of
business plan there's still meaningful
amount of capital and depth of that
capital and that's good. Where there's
not, that's where we've been spending
our time trying to find opportunities
and so it is an interesting pretty
dynamic environment in that way.
>> Well, and and the all the ingredients
are still there. Like it's uh asset
values have repriced. So that's that's a
positive as an investor. Um supply I
think we're seeing it everywhere in the
world is muted and and dropping.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is good. We're able to buy well
below replacement cost
>> and you still have all these stressed
and motivated sellers. And you know it
it's the case I think where lenders have
been somewhat cooperative with owners to
allow them to have some time but that
pressure continues to build and it's
still the same thing with redemption
cues and end of life of funds. So we're
seeing stressed uh investors out there
that ultimately do need to sell or
transact and that's creating all these
good opportunities.
>> Yeah. the the the volume of um assets
that need to rotate and recycle
continues to to build. And the longer
that delay happens, the more pressure it
feels like is in the system and will
ultimately come through where sellers
are going to be forced to take a a
clearing price that they've been
resistant to over the last couple of
years. and that starting to happen but
but feels like could pick up pace as we
get into back half of the year and next
year. We've been saying now for a long
time, hope and waiting. Waiting is not a
strategy that's coming to bear out,
right? Time is just not creating
the
catalyst for people to sort things out,
whether it's broken capital structures,
overlever, lack of capital to continue
invest. And that's that's great because
that means we can buy really good
businesses at good value and we can take
advantage of that business plan that we
can execute because we do have that
capital
>> and and I think what's interesting is
you know we're seeing that recovery. So
if you look at our activity so we've
invested about $6 billion of capital
over this first half of the year. Uh
that compares to what was 3 billion the
same time last year. So we're already
doubling in our activity. Probably the
place that's even more notable would be
on the disposition side where we've
we've sold $13 billion of assets and in
this first half and if you'd look back
at the first half of last year that
would have been about three billion so
you know major growth in our sales may
maybe we should talk a little bit about
about that um and and what I would just
broadly say then maybe we dig into some
of the examples but broadly say on
disposition activity is that the market
is incredibly bifurcated and we're
seeing it when we sell. So we we c we
have two places that there's capital
interested in buying assets. It's either
portfolio companies that are
best-in-class operating platforms and
that's where we're having a lot of
success selling or it's small asset you
know single assets small portfolios but
the whole middle large portfolios I'd
say is still a place that you're seeing
very little activity and very little
capital chasing. But but maybe it's
worth Brad, I don't know if you want to
mention Levenza as just an example of
what we're seeing out there when we're
going to sell a business like that and
uh and how how we're executing on it.
>> Yeah, I mean so Levenza is our Spanish
student housing business that we um
first started to acquire back in 2019.
uh went through COVID obviously
disruptive um but but student housing
generally came back pretty strong
postcoavid and I'd say in Europe over
the last couple of years the periphery
and southern Europe um and the non-core
countries have actually outperformed the
core which is different than certainly
the last decade and there's been a lot
of momentum around Spain in particular
the interest rates have come down there
inflation's come down rates in Europe
have come down yet there aren't very
many ways to to invest invest in market
rate residential generally and student
housing is certainly one of those ways
and there aren't many uh large freehold
operating platforms um in scale where
you can do that. Um and so we we built
up a business. We felt like it was the
right time uh to bring it to market and
we had a pretty competitive process um
with a number of you know well-
capitalized institutional investors and
sponsors.
It went through the April period of
disruption in terms of the process and
what was happening in in geopolitics and
that thinned it out a bit, but it still
ended up being a fairly competitive
process and and we ultimately exited at
um you know an attractive value and
return for our our investors. Um because
an institution could come in and buy a
plug-and-play business where they could
continue to invest capital, continue to
compound returns in a sector that had
lots of tailwinds and attractive
fundamentals. it was the right market at
the right time in the right sector and a
business that was scalable.
>> Yeah. Like I I do think that's an
important point because what we're
really selling then to the next buyer is
not just assets but operations. I think
one of the key themes in this
environment is having to have
operational expertise and excellence. A
and you you can't it's not it's not like
real estate 20 years ago. You can't just
own an asset and clip a coupon and
that's how you make your returns. It's
all about um how do you execute business
plans on the assets? How do you create
revenue growth? How do you renovate and
reposition assets? How do you manage
expenses? All all of that. And so when
we're selling these operating businesses
that have that full team that we've
helped build and create, uh the buyers
are interested in buying that. And and
you know, it's interesting on that
point. Levenza, which was we created it
in 2019 pre-COVID is when we started it.
Leela, which we just exited our luxury
India hotel business, we started
pre-COVID. Aveo which is our senior
living business in Australia which we
just exited. We built that up also
pre-COVID. So all all of these that were
pre-COVID that were impacted directly by
co uh have all turned around have all
turned into opportunistic very
attractive opportunistic returns for our
investors and it all is because of how
we operate those those assets. So the
theme is is very strong and it and it
just uh I think it just goes to tell you
who are who are the investors today that
going to have success. It's the ones
that have that kind of expertise.
>> Yeah. Particularly in scale for for
larger things. Uh the the institutional
investors out there that are deploying
capital in scale are still looking for
relatively high returns at least
compared to the last 10 or 15 years
versus selling smaller assets, single
assets, you know, are more core like
where there are more, you know, yield
focused buyers at lower returns. Um, but
for the larger things, they're looking
for that opportunity to invest in
platforms that they can grow and and
keep compounding.
>> Yeah, I think you hit the nail on the
head when you said the ability for them
to buy something they can continue to
invest in. And we we we've seen that on
all the exits you just described,
including fundamental income properties,
our triple net lease business that we
sold um just recently this year. uh was
another business that we built re really
right on the heels of really the onset
of COVID. What we all know today is that
tomorrow is a little unclear like it's
you know there's still volatility
there's still uncertainty but in the
fullness of time you know that you can
take these businesses and invest capital
in a creative way and continue to uh
whether it's grow revenues or reposition
assets or bolt on further investments to
build out uh that platform in even more
scale. We're really seeing investors put
a real premium on that and I think we've
been rewarded for that through all those
exits.
>> Yeah. Let let's pivot a little bit. I I
want to also talk about the environment
for fundraising for capital formation
because I think that also goes to when
are we going to get these wheels of
transactional activity happening. It's
when there's capital to that's that's
needs to be invested. We we we had our
success. We spent a lot of time over
these last 18 months with our investors
and fundraising and and we've been
luckily very successful and fortunate
and raised our largest uh fund ever for
our opportunistic strategy. But but at
the same time, we're watching a lot of
these midsize and smaller size sponsors
that are having a tougher time. And I
think we're seeing the market uh in
general capital is headed towards groups
like ourselves that have the scale, have
the ability to diversify where we
invest, have the operational expertise,
and that's leaving a lot of people
behind. Um that's becoming an
interesting investment opportunity for
us too. Uh where we can think about
things like GPLE recaps. May maybe it's
worth talking about. Ben, I don't know
if you want to jump into that, but it's
an interesting strategy that we're
finding a lot of success in.
>> Yeah. Yeah. what the dynamic you just
described is it's sort of the perfect
storm for this environment of these you
know so-called GPE secondaries or or
recaps where you really have uh a in
many cases either in a closedend
strategy that is at you know the
maturity of uh of its vehicle life andor
LPs who want a return of capital and
need a return of capital and so what
we've started to find is you know this
point of inflection where there's an
ability to be a solutions provider and
that is to come in and provide the
solution for the LP who wants to exit
and the GP who wants to continue to find
ways to continue create value through
those portfolios and in many cases be
able to frankly scale those portfolios
or those businesses. uh and it's really
perfect for our business because we can
really understand the assets because of
uh the scale and the breadth of our
operating businesses internally but we
can leverage people that are you know
sharpshooters in a specific sector or
geography utilize our scale our scale
frankly our capital uh to help them grow
and it's been a really great marriage
where it's really opened up another
breath of opportunities for one of our
strategies and I think we found a
tremendous amount of uh success in that
pretty early You know, I tell it's
surprising to me. I think when we first
went into that space, we didn't fully
understand what level of opportunities
we'd find, but with uh with these these
sponsors really wanting to hold on to
their assets, we can help provide that
to them, it creates really attractive
investment opportunities for ourselves
>> and it should keep picking up, right? If
you go back to, you know, 10 years ago,
there was a lot of capital raised in
that middle market that's now hitting
into fund life. Um and the slowdown in
the transaction market over the last
couple years again it just keeps
building in terms of volume of things
that need to rotate. So it feels like it
it's going to get even more um you know
there's going to be more opportunity in
that strategy over the next couple
years.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And look, we're
in an environment where uh it's
fantastic the fund raise that we've had
and the capital that we have at our
disposal, but we all know that that was
hard. That was not that was a
challenging environment to do that in
and there is continued I'd say you know
headwinds and probably compression in
that space for a lot of managers who are
going to have a more difficult time. So
that'll lead to more of our secondary
transactions, but frankly, it'll lead to
more consolidation with people that have
a global business, operating expertise,
and scale uh to keep finding these
opportunities where before there may
have been more sources of capital. It's
starting to starting to get more
difficult to find. And I think that's I
that gets me pretty excited at the next
couple years of the kinds of
opportunities that we're going to see.
>> Yeah. And we've been talking a lot about
equity, investment opportunities. You
know, I think credit also is a place we
should talk about because, you know,
certainly been in the headlines.
Everyone's talking about the private
credit opportunity that's out there and
that's growing and we're certainly
experiencing it here at Brookfield. Uh,
you know, real estate credit also feels
very good. We're able to come in at
these reset basis, reset values for real
estate that we're lending against, which
gives you extra cushion. The base rates
are good. Spreads in real estate are
higher than they are in corporate. So,
relative value, relative return is is
high. Uh I like I I think I think credit
um is going to be a pretty good growth
opportunity and a good place for people
to invest their capital for the coming
years. I don't I don't know what you
guys are saying. Yeah, look, there's
certainly a lot of um
deleveraging and um refinancing that
needs to occur just given how active the
period was again going back, you know,
whether it was 3 years ago, 5 years ago,
7 years ago, that wall of maturities
that everyone talks about. Most of that
gets refinanced and the banks are
retrenching and private capital is there
to step in and we can we can and we are
playing a big role there given we've got
the equity teams to understand markets,
understand sectors, do the underwrite.
Um and oftent times things we're looking
at on the equity side where we don't
quite feel pricing is right uh for the
equity but we're very comfortable at
where the detachment points are on the
debt and make you know very good
riskadjusted returns.
>> Yeah. Like I I think that that that part
of it which I don't think any of us
really thought about as we were
investing in these spaces but
once you have same teams working on
really across all of it all the capital
stack the relative value gets really
interesting and you can really think
about that relative value. Let's talk
office US for a second. Office in the US
we said it for a long time. It's very
bifurcated. The highest quality assets
are doing well. I'm sure Ben will jump
into this, but but um from where we've
been at least lately watching the
opportunities, credit office, you know,
credit for office seems like the has the
higher better relative value. It's more
interesting to us to lend an office and
there's really very few people doing it.
So, it gives us extra return whereas
equity, outright equity, buying an
office, I don't know, Ben, what what do
you think?
>> Yeah, look, I I think uh I think that's
spot on. I mean, you know, we always say
when when others are fearful, that's
when you should be investing. And I
think that's office in a nutshell. Um
we've seen firsthand over the past 5
years as you said the bifurcation of
performance. It's it it's actually
pretty easy now to understand the halves
and the have nots. And so if you can
focus on the halves and you can
understand the assets that will continue
to have net absorption that have good
positive net effective rent growth, you
can identify those and and office is a
humongous sector. So it's actually a
relatively large opportunity set. And
today you're you as you said banks are
retrenching from commercial real estate.
Let's say that's table stakes. They're
definitely retrenching from office.
There's many other things that they
would rather do on their shopping list
than office. And so today when you look
at relative risk both in what you can
earn equity investing in other sectors
verse credit where values have been
reset. Okay. So that's that's good. uh
real fundamentals have transparency in
terms of demand. There's real cash flow
happening now at these assets and you
can insert yourself at a relatively
senior ranking, very protected position
and earn historically high returns
taking very little risk. The added
benefit is because we know almost all of
these markets and and frankly many of
these buildings floor by floor, we
really have a good ability to to assess
the risk within that rent roll and
really pick our spots. And we're seeing
probably a mispricing on that where we
can look at some that carry what we
would say a tremendous amount more risk
and others that we would say are great
assets. We would buy them at a value.
Maybe they're not available to buy and
they're just available to finance. Uh
but we're getting paid for that and I
think there's excess spread and excess
return in office today in credit.
>> Uh on the topic of sectors, I thought
maybe we just hit on one more. Um we've
been saying for a while rental housing
is sort of our highest conviction. I
throw it out to both of you. Still the
case and and why?
>> Yeah, it's it's certainly uh among the
highest conviction. And I maybe I'll
just take Europe whether it's student
housing as we talked about senior
housing, manufactured housing, single
family rental, a lot of them are
relatively nent and are are just now
developing. I mean the demographic story
in Europe is there. Um so in building
these platforms and creating these
operating companies um we still think is
going to be a great opportunity going
forward just given the shortage
generally of housing across the
continent. Yeah, it gets hard to deny
the supply and demand fundamentals of
rental housing broadly in the Americas.
Uh, and you know, the funny thing is
when you say rental housing, we're not
just talking about apartments, right?
There's a broad swath of um of rental
housing typologies. You know, everything
from traditional apartments to
manufactured housing that we like a lot,
senior housing, student housing, um, and
single family rental. Um and so clearly
they all have slightly different nuanced
demand drivers and slightly different
nuanced uh you know supply outlooks. But
I'd say on balance, as you said when we
started, you know, we've crested uh the
peak of supply in almost every market,
at least in the US. Uh and we still need
more housing. And so it will take a long
time for that supply to build back up.
And uh the number of dwelling units that
we actually need to be delivered. And so
the supply side feels really good.
Demand, we're still in a high rate
environment. Even if we get a couple of
rate cuts this year, mortgage rates
likely aren't going to fall a tremendous
amount. Home ownership availability
continues to be out of reach for most
Americans. Uh and that just continues to
build a larger and larger rental cohort.
Um that's a long process that will take
a long time to uh work its way through
the system where um home ownership
becomes a affordable metric again
relative to rental housing. And so for
all those reasons, it's really hard to
say, "Yeah, I'm I'm not I'm convicted
more about something else." I I would
say, you know, there are some other
sectors where they maybe feel more
dislocated. Um but clearly with that
comes some risk premium. So rental
housing is pretty undeniable in my mind.
>> Yeah. I just I just got back from Brazil
last week and it was fascinating to just
spend time in our multif family business
that we're building there. Yeah, that's
an extreme example of where there's so
little inventory and the demand is is
just, you know, we're
>> buildings get delivered to us and we're
fully leased within 4 months and it's
just
>> that demand for rental housing continues
to grow and Brazil's one example, but
really all around the world.
>> Yeah. And even the areas in the US that
did have some excess supply going back a
few years ago when the call it the
development pipe was was running. Those
have mostly been absorbed now and have
returned to stabilization broadly
speaking you'd say.
>> Yeah. And look and we all know cuz we
look at it every day. The feasibility to
start new construction is pretty far out
of reach. Hard to get construction
financing. It's expensive. Uh
development yields really don't justify
new construction. So I just think that
dynamic perpetuates for longer. Uh and
so it should spell really good, you
know, growth uh across I'd say all of
those typologies really on topline
revenues. The the other thing that sort
of was obvious to me in in seeing uh I
just go back to Brazil for one second,
the multif family in Brazil uh was the
blurring of lines between multif family
and hospitality particularly because of
technology. So in that case there the
ability to really um optimize your mix
of residents between short-term, midterm
and long-term and doing it all through
essentially automated software that we
built that allows for optimal pricing,
optimal uh optimization of net operating
income. So so maybe on that topic of
technology, I just throw that also out
both of you like where where are you
seeing are you seeing technology have a
real impact on our real estate business
and in what way would you sort of
describe that?
Um, look, I'd say the biggest is what
you just said. It's it's kind of yield
management and figuring out how to drive
higher revenues um by leveraging
technology to to figure out um
how to actually get the highest paying
customer in the space and whether that's
short-term, long-term, somewhere in the
middle. Obviously, hospitality and
residential are the most relevant. Um,
but the way we run our buildings all
over the world, I think we're far more
efficient in running them at higher
margins today than we ever have been
just using all of the technology that's
available. You probably see it most in
the office portfolio and at least
building systems in in the US. Um, but
I'd say it's it's pervasive across our
whole portfolio.
>> Yeah. And I might add to that question
then too, which is the question I'm sure
that all of us have gotten a million
times now. AI what how's AI impacting us
in real estate?
>> Yeah. So I maybe it's just a
continuation of that answer which is
like when I think about our real estate
business any sector or really any
geography like we're in the people
business, right? We're selling people an
experience on their vacation through our
leisure. We're selling people uh
dwellings and their homes and we're
selling people an office experience and
uh and we're selling people a retail
experience. And now through AI where
we're just at the, you know, we're just
on the bleeding edge of really
understanding the power of many of these
tools and the generative AI tools. What
we know about our customers and our
customers could be the person working at
the large financial institution in our
office that comes here every day that
then goes downstairs and shops and then
leaves and may rent an apartment from us
and then goes on vacation and is a hotel
customer. It was very hard in the past
to knit all of those things together and
they were very siloed and we sort of
knew broad brush where demand was and
who our customer was. Now we really
really can utilize AI to really
understand usage, demand profiles,
customer profiles, customer acquisition
costs. We're starting to think much more
I I hate to say it like how technology
companies think about acquiring their
customers than oldline real estate
businesses think about leasing space.
And to your point on yield optimization,
the ability to really understand that I
think our model in Brazil is fantastic.
And I think we've gotten there almost by
accident where we the the system we were
using was really to leverage short-term
stays and then we started to yield
medium-term stays and now we can find
the right pie chart and balance of long,
medium and short and really optimize.
You take that and extrapolate that over
the next couple years when these models
get better and better for global
business and then you think about the
broader Brookfield what we understand
our operating business and private
equity or we understand our
infrastructure business. I mean, man,
when we can harness that, it's going to
be an absolute gamecher. So, we're
starting to see it. I'm pretty excited
about what I think we can actually do
with it.
>> Yeah. Look, I think where we're going,
and it's probably not too far off, is is
really into these predictive analytics,
which is then taking advantage of all
the data that's out there that's third
party and that we have access to, but
then add to it all of our data across
our $300 billion real estate portfolio a
and across our trillion dollar asset
management portfolio across Brookfield.
and what do we know about markets and
micro markets and and businesses and be
able to use that to actually predict
which markets, which property types,
what what should we be investing in? And
like we're starting, we're just starting
to see it in things like our single
family rental where we are picking our
markets or in some of our logistics
where we're also same thing into picking
which markets we see better than anyone
else where the growth is going to come
from and how much like that we're just
at the start and that's going to impact
you know our business and real estate
broadly I I think in a big way coming
pretty and it's not that far off.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's no doubt.
>> So we talked a lot about where we are
but but I guess the question is where
are we going? Um what are you guys most
excited about? What do you see as the
the big opportunity for us going
forward?
>> Well, it could be it would be hard not
to include data centers and the growth
in um digital digital real estate that's
going to um that is happening and is
going to happen over the next decade. Um
it it's you know the numbers are are
extraordinary. And what what we found is
that we're actually already sitting on a
lot of the uh raw material which is the
sites um you know things that we've
acquired over the last number of years
for other uses mostly logistics but in
some cases
>> residential development or science parks
where we are now working with our
colleagues on the power um side and our
renewables business as well as our
infrastructure business who have data
center developers in house and have
these really long um relationships with
the largest hyperscalers in the world.
And bringing all of that together
um is really exciting and to see the
power of uh of Brookfield at work across
all these dis different disciplines to
capitalize on what is going to be the
the largest, you know, capital
investment cycle that we've seen in a
generation. Clearly, um it's going to be
uh it's going to be pretty unique. Not
everyone's going to be a winner in this
space. Um, but I think given our setup,
our history, our relationships, we're
we're extremely well positioned. And to
see it all come together is has been
pretty exciting.
>> I I don't want to overstate it, but this
is a dynamic where it feels like
everyone just got to the party and we've
been standing around like we we've been
here, you know, we've been investing in
data centers in our broader business for
the better part of 14 years. Everyone's
woken up now. It's a very different
business now. and the users and uh and
the quantum of compute and power and
demand and dollars that will need to be
invested are much different than they
were 5 years ago. But to your point,
it's kind of amazing in our business
where you look at our land and housing
development business, our traditional
real estate logistics business,
infrastructure, etc. where we have so
many tethers into controlling and owning
land, having access to power, having a
relationship with the end users, um it's
hard to see how we don't have a huge
competitive advantage there. And to your
point, there's always a lot of
exuberance around these things and not
everyone will get it right. Uh but it it
it's pretty exciting dynamic when you
can knit together all of those different
businesses that have a unique
knowhow, source of capital, source of
power, control of land. Put those
together and create these projects. It's
fantastic. And we're doing it in Europe
and we're doing it in the US and we'll
do it globally. Uh that's going to be a
great engine of growth for our business.
>> Yeah. Look, I I I I have to fully agree.
I think it's a it's a huge opportunity
for us. Um, and and everyone's sort of
aware of it, but not not too many people
can do it, which is what makes it so
interesting. And I and I do think
there's going to be a number of people
that stub their toes or maybe worse here
because it's a bit of a gold rush.
>> But if you don't have all those
capabilities, you you will make a
mistake. And if you go in and you say,
I'm I'm going to go develop this and I
think I have the power and then I don't
have the power, like that's a fatal
flaw. And and so there are people things
we're watching that I think won't end
that well. But but having all those
capabilities that we have and put it
together allows you to do it in a way
that's pretty riskaverse which is which
is fantastic.
>> Ben, what are you most excited about?
>> Yes. So I think I'll answer maybe more
broadly than specific one specifically
one of our markets or sectors. But I you
know I maybe what I'm excited about is
what what also sort of keeps us up at
night or has been challenging over the
past couple years which is uh we
continue to live in this world that has
a tremendous amount of volatility.
really a shifting and changing dynamic
whether it's geopolitics or global trade
or capital flows. Uh but I get really
excited about all that dislocation
because
we've got a lot of dry powder and a lot
of knowhow and a lot of areas where I
think we can exploit that. So I'm pretty
excited about the fact that it's not
clear what's obvious. It's not clear
what the best investment idea is. We
we'll figure it out. We'll build
conviction around it and and we're doing
that and I think we have been doing
that. But uh these sorts of
environments, we were talking about this
yesterday. I mean it post global
financial crisis, we were all sitting in
some similar role here uh working
together and everything we were doing
like it felt pretty difficult and it
felt pretty uncertain and when you look
back of course the fullness of time and
with hindsight you went wow we bought
amazing businesses, we bought amazing
portfolios and look what happened and we
learned a lot and we built great
businesses and we built expertise. I
think this is that environment now where
we'll look back five, seven, 10 years
and we'll be like we got into this
sector, we doubled down on this trend,
we really saw something and we built,
you know, the the the engine of growth
for the next five or 10 years of our
business. I think that's now. So that's
just just the environment right now is
what's exciting.
>> Yeah, I I agree. Like if I if I were to
say where I think we are, I think we're
in the second inning of a of a new cycle
and a new recovery. That's so that's
exciting to be at the early stages. The
other thing that I think will become
clear as the dust settles over what has
transpired in the last five years really
in real estate it's been a really tough
five years a really tough five years and
uh for the sector for the industry um
you know we're going through a lot co
huge disruption then interest rates
moving like they have a geopolitical
volatility all of it it's it's been
there's been a lot going on in this
world in the last 5 years and when the
dust settles
we'll have done quite well like we will
have come through this in a in a very
strong position. Uh we've made the right
investments. We've diversified our
portfolio as well. And so part of what
I'm excited about actually is is sort of
being able to see that in fact in
numbers and we're seeing it now as we're
doing all these exits. You these these
are things you you talked about Levenza.
Uh I might mention Aveo in that same
regard. AO
you know we bought this uh senior living
business in Australia in 2019. You
probably couldn't have timed it worse in
retrospect. A and and the whole premise
was to take a public company that was
dysfunctional in terms of management,
take it over, bring in new management,
turn it around, and suddenly we get hit
with COVID when we didn't even have a
management team and we're trying to
figure out how to manage senior living
assets were probably the most dangerous
place. And and it was, you know,
honestly, it was scary that we were in
charge of this and in charge of people's
lives. A and and I think now you look
back at what we how we turned it around
and brought in a whole new management
team and protected our residents and and
created an incredible brand name and
quality of portfolio and turns it into
opportunistic returns. Like it it's
fantastic and it's it's just sort of
indicative of a lot of these businesses
that we built. So we're we're going to
come through all this with flying colors
and that just me will power our
business. We see it already and our
investors putting their their, you know,
voting with their feet and putting their
capital to work with us, but I think
that's just going to grow from here. All
right, why don't why don't we wrap it up
here? This is a great conversation. Uh,
it's really good to do it. Thanks, Brad.
Thanks, Ben.
>> Soon as always,
>> thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
