[Music]
Welcome to a special edition of MSEI
Perspectives. I'm your host, Adam Bass,
and today is May 8th,
2025. No one can ignore the fact that
private assets have grown to play a much
larger role in investors asset
allocation plans. However, there are
many investors who still don't fully
appreciate how to analyze and integrate
these assets into their portfolios.
Fortunately, with us today, we have
MSEI's head of private assets, Luke
Flemur. Luke, welcome to the program.
Thank you. Great to be here. So, let's
start off by talking a little bit about
your professional journey. How did you
get here? and right back down to what
interested you about this position at
Msei.
Sure. Um, well, I've been at Msei for
about 6 months. Very new in the scene
and very very pleased to be here. Um, I
joined from Goldman Sachs asset
management where I was running digital
strategy for the alternatives complex.
So really focused on digitization and
data across all flavors of alternatives
at at Goldman. Um and prior to that I
spent almost 20 years as a co-founder
and CEO of a business called Lab 49
which was a technology strategy and
consulting business uh that built a lot
of the large platforms digital platforms
for banks, brokers, asset managers etc.
So uh various flavors of uh sort of
digital
transformation, use of data, use of
technology to enable trading and
investing has been sort of the theme of
my of my career. Um prior to that I
actually worked um fun fact I guess uh
in in robotics and automation. So the
first um five or six years of my career
was really looking at uh you know how to
automate physical processes in the
world. Uh and then went on to spend the
next you know 25 or so working on
automating you know more virtual
processes through through finance and
automation. But I had the uh the sort of
privilege of starting working in finance
in the early 2000s uh in fixed income
and really being part of that journey of
digitization that we went on in the in
the fixed income markets in the in the
2000s. So when I started on Wall Street,
people were still very much doing uh you
know doing deals on the phone and and
and sort of doing very manual processes
to get deals done in in fixed income. uh
and by the time you know fast forward 10
years that was all ultra low latency
electronically traded etc. So really had
a ringside seat on a on a pretty
dramatic uh transformation within within
financial markets. Um and that gave me I
think a lot of the perspective that I
bring now to to the private markets
which is you know we've seen some of
these movies before. We've seen the way
in which data algorithms automation can
really facilitate a market bring uh you
know much increased liquidity more
participants to that market and I think
that's very much the journey that we're
on with with private markets. So I was
super excited to come to MSCI obviously
you know phenomenal and storyried brand
uh but in this role running private
assets and really driving the
transformation of this in industry from
within a a data and technology
powerhouse like MCI is just a really
unique experience. That sounds that
sounds fascinating. Very briefly if you
had to sum up the state of the private
markets right now what would that sound
like?
Sure. I look I think we're at a at a
fascinating um point in the private
markets and without without digging too
much into what's going on right now in
the markets which I think has it you
know very much has its own dynamics and
maybe we can talk about that a little
later because I think it's it's pretty
interesting but you know zooming out a
little bit and ignoring you know the
last several months of of of sort of
market volatility
um I I think we're at a really
interesting place in in private markets
where we have uh in in my view a a
little bit of an imbalance in in the
market. So we have an an asset class uh
which is growing you know pretty
rapidly. We see sustained interest. We s
we we s see sustained flows into the
asset class. Uh but it's also an asset
class that doesn't in my view yet have
the tools, analytics and data
appropriate to support the level of
investment that it currently enjoys. So,
so I think we're dealing with a with a,
you know, in some sense a sort of a
teenager asset class, right? It's sort
of grown up in some ways and and and
maybe not fully grown up in others. And
I think certainly part of the journey
that that we're on at MCI is how do we
bring a level of transparency and rigor
to this market? And does that assessment
apply equally across the world? Are are
we all in our teenage years when it
comes to private assets or is there
variation?
I would say that there's variation both
globally and and by uh specific asset
class as well. So I think that there are
asset classes which are intrinsically
uh less liquid and more opaque by their
nature. Um I you know I would posit
infrastructure for example as a as an
asset class that has enjoyed robust
growth but structurally is very
heterogeneous and and there there are
challenges in in forming a normalized
view across that asset class. uh you
know at the other end of the spectrum
I'd say private credit is intrinsically
you know more shortdated and more liquid
and has more analytical tools available
to it for investors to make sense of it.
So, so I would say that that there's
some some dispersion by asset class,
probably even more so than by geography.
And as I mentioned, we'll dig into the
details of some of those asset classes
and different types of investors. But
now that we have a sense of where we
are, I'd love for you to walk us back a
little history lesson, if you will. Um,
how how did we get here? And if I can
focus a little bit, I'm very interested
in the intersection between public and
private markets and how they've evolved
either together or you know a divergence
between them.
Yeah, sure. I I think it's a really
interesting question and I actually
think it's quite um foundational to
thinking about the evolution of private
markets from from here, right? And
so look at at the end of the day
originally all markets were private,
right? Um the the and I think that
that's an interesting perspective
because I I think there's a sense in
which we say public markets are over
here, private markets are here, private
markets need to become public markets
and that's kind of their their natural
evolution. I'm not and I'm not
completely sure that that's the right
the right mental model. um you know
public markets as we know them today
have been you know you can pick a number
but I would say sort of 800 years plus
in the making right the the the early uh
bores are you know date from the sort of
13th century in Europe and that's the
original beginning of of some sort of
normalization fungeibility you know uh
shared investor pool around around the
the formation of capital um and then you
you you know you sort of see in the I
guess sort the 17th and 18th century,
you know, Dutch East India and and and
British and, you know, the these
beginnings of of what start to look like
real corporations at at scale and that
are attracting, you know, arms length
capital, right? And I guess the
definition, you know, one definition of
a public market is you have investors
that don't know the principles, right?
That's kind of a that's kind of a
characteristic. And so you start to see
and and you you have the associated sort
of mania and bubbles that that come out
of that, right? which we still struggle
with today in public markets. But
because you have this remoteness between
investors that can get excited about a
story and then the actual people that
are deploying the capital in the form of
the the corporation, you know, there are
all kinds of um you know, unintended
consequences you you can get from that.
And one of the one of the things that I
I always like to highlight because I
think it shows how how important the
stuff is is um you know the Mississippi
bubble of the 1720s or wherever it was
which was a you know quite a remarkable
example of a you know what looked like a
sort of a public investment opportunity
that that ultimately was endorsed by the
by the crown of France and the whole
financial system of France almost
oriented around providing you know
capital into this investment which
ultimately ended up you know blowing up
spectacularly
uh you know really paved the way for
ultimately the French Revolution right
it led to such poor sort of financial
conditions and such provation for uh you
know for for the poor people that it
ultimately you know was was one of the
key catalysts for the French Revolution
so we we've been playing around with
public structures you know for a long
time and they've been impacting uh you
know the the the course of politics for
for for a long time and so if you look
at then you know the evol evolution of
of modern markets over you know call it
the last 100 years there's been a real
uh you know drive through you know
through through regulation and just
through market behavior to provide a
high degree of transparency and
predictability so that people know you
know where where their money is going um
and it's still an imperfect system but I
think if you look today at where public
markets are they're characterized by
huge amounts of information
uh very low latency between you know
events and the and the information being
disseminated. Uh uh an assumption of
uniform access to information, right?
So, you know, in insider trading or or
or privileged information is really
something that's frowned upon and that
markets try to control. And so,
essentially what you're trying to
provide is a level playing field for
these remote investors to deploy capital
with an expectation of outcomes, right?
and then obviously very sophisticated
uh you know pricing and risk apparatus
that's then been built on on on top of
those structures and that that I would
say characterizes today's public markets
and so if you look at the evolution of
private markets and again you you sort
of go back to the dawn of time or the
invention of of credit right you going
back millennia to say you know when were
people first staking other people with
capital in order to do a venture that's
been going on for for a very long time
but typically you know there's been
these people have known each other or
there's been some degree of kind of
connection and transparency where people
are like I'm investing in this venture
or this person or this undertaking I'm
lending them money they live next door
to me they live down the street like you
you sort of know what what you're
getting into and that's characterized
private markets and for the most part
part still does um you know starting
in I guess the sort of mid 20th century
with the with the growth of of venture
and the sort of very early days of you
know what what became buyout you start
to see, you know, third party
intermediaries coming in and saying, you
know, we're going to get to know these
people that want to deploy capital and
and really acting as an agent. We're
then going to sort of syndicate out, you
know, the opportunities for for capital
deployment to other investors that that
want to deploy and the role of, you
know, what became ultimately the general
partner is is really central to that
intermediation, right? So you have a
huge amount of information asymmetry.
You have people that are spending your
capital that you've never met and you
never will meet in ways that you know
you have no transparency into. Um but
you're making significant investments.
And so that process has been and and
largely continues to be intermediated by
the role of the of the general partner
that that's responsible
for prudent asset selection and
management of that portfolio in order to
generate a a return for investors.
Um, we're still pretty much living in
that world. I mean, I would say that the
that that the private market is maturing
and evolving very rapidly. And I'd say
the last, you know, 15 years or so has
seen significant evolution. We've se
seen evolution in the shape of the fund
structures. We've seen a lot of
evolution in the transparency and
reporting. uh we've seen the growth of
secondary you know of more secondary
markets for for interests in the you
know in these funds but broadly speaking
we still have the the general partners
largely acting as the as the risk
manager and arbiter of that of of that
capital. No, thank you. That's very very
comprehensive uh history. Um and it
sounds like it's very interesting when
you talk about how private markets are
actually older uh than than public, but
it sounds like as we've moved closer to
today, is it fair to say they've started
perhaps acting a little bit more like
public markets and that's led to their
greater availability? or am I
oversimplifying that a bit?
I think there are a few I think there
are a few different things going on.
There's certainly been a a decrease in
the rate at which firms are accessing
the public markets for equity. So, we've
seen, you know, in general a prolonged
slowdown in in IPO volume and the use of
IPO as a as a means to access capital.
And as a result, we're seeing larger
firms staying private for longer, in
some cases almost indefinitely. Um and
the the the latest stage venture index
that we launched at Msei a couple of
weeks back I think is a very interesting
example of that where you know there are
these almost household name private
companies that are extremely profitable
extremely successful you know the
SpaceX's and Stripes of the world that
are you know choosing not to to go
public you know in some cases for for
many years and so that's a sort of a
shift in funding allocation away from
public markets to private markets now I
don't want to overplay that the IPO
window has been, you know, relatively
closed for for a while. Hopefully that
that reopens. I'm not sure that this is
a, you know, it's not a binary trend,
but it's certainly something that that
one can observe in terms of equity
financing. Um, and then I'd say, you
know, by the same token on the on the
debt or the credit side, um, you know,
there's been a sustained retrenchment in
bank lending and private markets have
really stepped into and and filled that
gap. Um I think the other thing which is
happening which is really driving
uh the the maturation of this market and
and a lot of the evolution that we're
seeing
is historically I I think private assets
were treated
as as an interesting asset class but
that one that was held off a little bit
to the side of the main investment book.
Right? So they were seen as being uh you
know uncorrelated or or or or less
correlated than other assets and they
were seen as return as as providing uh
you know outsiz returns or or alpha and
so when you and and also just frankly a
function largely of of the smoothing
reporting but they they had an
attractive sharp ratio. They seemed like
not very volatile. The marks kind of you
know progressed in an orderly fashion.
the returns were good and therefore they
looked like a like a nice investment
class. And so starting uh you know with
you know 20 plus years ago we started to
see increasing allocations you know of
of uh public endowments, pensions and
and uh and asset management into uh into
this asset class, right? Um but still
treated as a as somewhat of a separate
animal sort of off to the side of the
main public portfolio. I think one of
the things that that we're seeing is as
private as a proportion of the portfolio
has grown, you know, pretty
monotonically and as sophistication of
asset owners has has grown generally,
people are starting to revisit, I think,
a little bit this assumption that
privates sit off to the side of the of
the main portfolio and they're starting
to really think about, you know, what is
a total portfolio approach look like
across my portfolio.
um that doesn't necessarily mean that
people are abandoning strategic asset
allocation and rushing to a a true total
portfolio allocation strategy. I'm not
necessarily saying that. But I do think
that there is more of an expectation to
be able to treat privates in some of
some of the ways that they look at
publics. So they want to have a better
understanding, for example, of uh of
liquidity and and cash characteristics,
right? They want to understand the the
the shapes of a J curve. what does it
look like for the draw down? When do we
expect to see capital returned? I think
that's been you know really stressed
over the last three or four years as as
we've seen uh distribution timelines
really dilate in private equity and and
people are not getting the cash returns
that they expected and they're starting
to say you know gee maybe this thing
doesn't always perform you know the way
it has historically. So I think
liquidity and cash is is is an area of
greater interest and then also I think
going
through you know some of the recent
stresses that we've had on valuation
right some of the repricing that we saw
in in in 22 for example in uh in in
private equity has led folks to think
you know maybe these marks are not as
kind of stable and monotonic as we
thought they are and we need to think
about this a little bit more from a risk
perspective. sophisticated investors are
saying it it's not a it's not a
reasonable assumption to say that this
is not correlated there's no overlap
between these names and there's not
going to be you know contagion contagion
in the event of of sort of credit events
and so we need to understand you know
our genuine exposure in this book and so
I think those are you know some of the
macro themes that are driving evolution
of the asset class and and you mentioned
this term total portfolio approach which
has come up before in some of our
discussions on on this program. So
getting into maybe what is a little bit
of the micro of that, how can investors
think about or go about the process of
integrating privates into their total
portfolio approach?
Full disclosure, I think that that my
team and and MSI more generally are very
bullish on total portfolio as an
organizing principle. I think that you
know if if I fast forward you know pick
a number five years in in the industry I
I would be amazed if we don't see much
broader adoption of total portfolio
techniques and management that include
the private assets. So I think you know
long term I I do think that this is kind
of where we're going at least
directionally. Um I think there's a lot
of work to be done in uh in in sort of
you know uplifting the quality of the
transparency and reporting that exists
in private markets before that really
becomes practical. So I think trying to
pursue a total portfolio approach when
you don't have the appropriate
granularity reporting you know factor
analysis etc that you need on the
private part of the portfolio it is not
really a uh you know sort of an
intellectually honest exercise and I
think it's going to you know maybe lead
to a sense of sort of false security.
You think you're looking at the total
portfolio but you're not really because
they're not really sort of funible or
comparable. So I think uplifting the
quality of that data and that
transparency in the private book is is
the sort of short-term priority. And so
you know one of the things we're very
focused on is you know across all of the
subasset classes within within privates.
Uh how do we help investors understand
better the characteristics of those
investments? And again that can be from
a cash and liquidity perspective. It can
be from a a credit exposure perspective.
of you know the recent announcement we
did with Moody's I'm very excited about
in terms of bringing uh you know
increased credit scoring and analytics
to private credit I think is a very
constructive step in that direction and
is that situation as you mentioned
pretty generally across all the
different subasset classes or are there
different issues with getting at the
different risks and opportunities that
might lie say in infrastructure or
private credit etc yeah I I think it I
think it varies broadly
Um
and in some cases in many cases it's
sort of endemic to the nature of the
asset class and in some cases I think
it's arising from the evolution of the
market structure and what what I mean by
that is if you look particularly at
something like private credit um you
know the the the spectrum and the and
the boundary between public and private
credit is is is much more more tenuous
right and in some cases some of the the
the function you know some of the the
the the portfolios actually cross over
and we're seeing a lot of mixed um
public and private credit offerings for
example. So um you know offerings from
from KKR and Apollo and others where
they really are creating a basket which
is a hybrid of public and private credit
and offering that to to investors and I
think that u you know Mark Mark Ran at
Apollo spoken you know quite extensively
on this and you know his view is really
the delineation between public and
private credit is somewhat artificial
and and and really one should just view
it across the traditional dimensions
that you'd would evaluate credit on and
this whether it's public or private is
is is somewhat of an artificial
distinction. Um, you know, folks may or
may not agree with that, you know, with
with that view, but there's no doubt
that these firms are are really driving
uh transparency and liquidity into this
market much more so than has existed
private uh, you know, previously. And I
think this intersects with the growth of
secondary markets more generally in
private assets and and people have a a
desire to be able to trade in and out of
positions in these funds and and that is
already reshaping the duration and the
nature of that. And then when you couple
that with funds that are mixing highly
liquid public credit with traditionally
illquid private credit, there's
obviously kind of a gravitational pull
in my view that's going to pull the
private credit to look more like the
public and hence become you know more
funible, more comparable and ultimately
more more tradable. You know again at
the other end of the spectrum you know
things like infrastructure projects
which are very heterogeneous
uh you very bespoke very very
idiosyncratic difficult to produce a
normalized view across that that entire
portfolio that doesn't mean that one
can't make progress and we are making
progress in that we actually spend a lot
of time on doing that we have a number
of benchmarks that we provide to
investors to help them understand the
the the characteristics and performance
of their infrastructure investments but
intr that's intrinsically a a
longerdated slower moving you know part
of the of the asset class that that's
not going to move as as fast as private
credit. So I think you will see a you
know a pretty broad dispersion across
the asset class in terms of the rate at
which it moves in this direction. But I
will I also think and this is something
again that we at MCI are are working
pretty diligently on. I think you'll see
folks try to say, you know, what are
basic building blocks of normalization
that we can apply across all of the
asset class. And so I think you'll see
the, you know, the floor, if you will,
of of comparability or normalization
rising over time, but it'll be
outstripped by those asset classes that
are are more liquid or or faster moving
like private credit.
And what about on the the people's side,
the the client side? You talked a bit
earlier gave a very clear definition of
the GP the general partner. The other
the counterpart of that is the LP or
limited partner. So for the benefit of
our perspectives audience that does not
have familiarity with these terms. Can
you start out by giving us a little
definition of limited partners, but then
I'm also curious what are some of the
trends that are driving the behaviors of
both GPS and LPs right now?
Yeah, sure. So, um, you know, the the
definition of limited partner flows
naturally from the the definition of
general partner. So the general partner
takes on the you know the the
responsibility and operating role of
essentially establishing uh the process
by which capital is raised and deployed
the portfolio is managed and ultimately
exited and capital is returned
successfully to those investors and
those investors come in in the form of
limited partners and so those are
participants in the structure that are
not responsible for the day-to-day
operation and deployment of capital but
rather depend on the general partner to
do that on on their behalf. Um so the
the function of the limited partner is
to provide capital uh you know into that
structure and into the fund you know
ultimately for deployment to enjoy you
know the the return of of cash flow in
in due course you know consistent with
that with that investment strategy and
to have certain information rights and
transparency into how the general
partner is deploying capital on on their
behalf. And so traditionally limited
partners have been uh you know large
institutional investors or in some cases
you know large family offices or or
ultra high netw worth individuals uh
that have generally long duration
capital that they can deploy into these
enterprises over you know a 5 to 10 year
time horizon and have have enjoyed you
know outsized returns as a function of
that investment strategy. And there are
variety of interesting debates as to why
those returns are outsized. Is it a
function of you know the holding period
and the fact that it's patient capital?
Uh is it a function of you know the the
general partners um excellence and
insight in identifying sourcing
underwriting the the right
opportunities? Is it a function of uh
operational excellence on the general
partner in terms of uh you know of of
helping and facilitating those companies
to you know to to perform better. So
that would be sort of managerial alpha
if you will. So there are a number of
different you know theories for where
this outsiz performance comes from. But
historically the the the sort of pitch
if you will of of of private assets has
been you know you deploy you know
substantial amount of capital for a
substantial period of time and you enjoy
an outsiz you know return as a as a
function of that. Now I think the the
the definition and this is where your
questions probably go. definition of of
the limited partner is evolving, right?
And so, you know, firms like I Capital,
for example, have done, you know,
phenomenal job
democratizing access to many of these to
to many of these vehicles, right? And
they've created feeder funds and other
structures that allow, you know, folks
with not as much capital to deploy to
still come in and get access to some of
the world's top funds and and and enjoy
those those results. And increasingly
we're seeing uh you know an interest in
providing even broader access to the
wealth market and we're seeing the
creation of new investment vehicles with
the specific goal of expanding the
definition of limited partner to include
you know broader retail wealth and we'll
get back to the wealth investors in a
moment but just sticking with the
standard GPS and LPs and how their
strategies and concerns are evolving.
You mentioned at the top a bit about the
current situation and while we don't
want to dwell too much on that this is a
longer term asset class for
sure. Has there been any shortterm
adjustments or are you hearing different
types of concerns let's say over the
last month or two from different
clients?
you know, we're dealing with a range of
outcomes which is very broad and hence
the impact of that and the cascading
effects of that are very hard to predict
and so they range between, you know, a
quite dramatic reshaping of the global
economy to, you know, more modest
expectations that this is adjusted and
and sort of priced and and we move
forward. So there's really a a broad,
you know, dispersion of outcomes. I
think what it means for us in in private
markets is is a few things.
Um look on on the one hand economic
uncertainty and risk off is always you
know always slows down the the pace in
markets right. So I think it makes it
more difficult for folks to fund raise.
It makes investors more more hesitant to
deploy capital. It makes people more
likely to you know try to look for safe
haven assets versus risk assets. So, I
think all of those are a headwind,
albeit I don't think a a long-term
headwind, but certainly a short to
medium-term headwind on, you know, just
generally growth of the of of the of the
industry. But on a on a more positive
note, I think it it's actually a bit of
a forcing function that may see us
coming out quite a bit more mature on
several dimensions in in private assets
over the next, you know, call it a let's
call it a year, right? Um, and and I
think those dimensions are are a few
fold. I think private credit uh you know
risks being tested uh you know certainly
many of the outcomes are you know
recessionary or softening in nature and
those are those are going to test some
of those private credits and I think
we've generally been in a in a fairly
bull uh bull cycle from a private credit
perspective. So I think that's going to
be instructive uh and and and test some
of the the risk management assumptions
of private credit portfolios which
ultimately I think will will strengthen
the quality of the risk management. Um I
think that uh delayed um uh capital
return right I think I don't think we're
going to see a lot of IPO I think
there's going to be a dampening effect
on on M&A and I think there's going to
be a dampening effect on return of
capital under these strategies and so I
think that is actually going to be uh a
tailwind for the secondaries market. So
I think we're going to see even more
secondaries activity. And I think again
secondaries is very interesting because
ultimately it drives price price
formation and price discovery in these
markets. And so in order to do price
discovery at scale, you need a lot more
data and you need in a lot more
real-time way. And so I think we're
pretty excited actually about the the
way in which this might move the market
forward from a liquidity and a
transparency perspective. And I think
last but not least, super interesting
for a company like Msei, people are
taking much more of a of an overall
factor exposure approach in these in
these positions, right? And so as they
start to reason about supply chain
impact disruption of supply chain
playing out various scenarios I think a
lot of the data that we're able to bring
together much of which we collect under
the opus of our sustainability data but
it really helps us understand supply
chains exposures the n the way in which
you know goods and and capital flow in
the global economy and so being able to
bring that information together around
the total portfolio and try to reason
around the behavior of that portfolio in
these various scenarios again I think is
really going to it's going to move
people forward in the sophistication of
some of that analysis. So what about the
wealth audience? How does their approach
not to the ultra present but generally
when it comes to private assets? How
does how does the approach of this slice
of the market differ?
you know, people have historically
wanted to participate in, you know, the
creation of value in the economy and
investing is definitely one mechanism by
which they do that. And so I think
vehicles that allow, you know, a broader
swath of investors to participate in
where the value is being created in the
economy are generally, you know, a a
good thing and b something that people
are, you know, are are excited about. So
I think there's a natural, you know,
sort of appetite for people to have
broader exposure. I think people are
interested in the return characteristics
of the asset class. They're interested
in the again perceived diversification
and the and the outsiz returns. Um I
think that is where the rubber is going
to start to meet the road a little bit.
I think that there is just a level of
transparency that is going to be
required for financial advisers to feel
comfortable putting uh their clients
into these products at increased scale.
Um I I think they may well come to the
conclusion that that these that that's a
good decision that these this is this is
an asset class that should be a larger
proportion of investors portfolios uh
especially depending where they are you
know what stage in their sort of
investment time horizon they are but I
think what we're already seeing and
we'll see more of is a need for better
transparency and comparability of these
private assets with public assets. And
again, this comes back to the total
portfolio portfolio construction
question of how do you put together a
sensible portfolio that behaves in ways
that you that you think it will. And I
think in much the same way that the
current market stress is is pushing
participants to evolve their thinking. I
think it will definitely push us forward
from a transparency and information
perspective. I think that I I think that
in general we will just see more
information being made available about
these funds about these investments that
that um the wealth channel will demand
and I think that that will be part of
our journey towards providing you know a
more comparable level of of transparency
that that exists in public markets. And
last but definitely not least but last
because I'm being told we we don't have
much time left. um if we're sitting here
a year from now, 5 years from now, what
are you hoping that conversation is like
around private markets, what what's
exciting you? So, if I fast forward a
year, I would hope that we're providing
clients with uh you know, even better
analytics and and risk tools and factor
analysis on their private portfolios. I
would hope that we're uh you know
working with general partners to provide
you know more information and
transparency that investors are asking
for and that that's enabling you know
the growth of of wealth and and other
investors that want to come into this
asset class and the data that they need.
Um and then if I think on a 5year time
horizon I would definitely hope that um
you know the tools for total portfolio
are available to those who need them and
they can really you know reason about
the total portfolio in ways which right
now you know people can't. So, I think
there's a lot of wood to chop, but I
think we can make a huge amount of
progress in the in the industry over the
next several years. Well, Luke, with
that, thank you very much for coming on,
sharing your insights. Uh, I know it's
your first time on the program, but we
we hope it won't be your last.
Absolutely. Thanks for having me. I
appreciate it.
That's all for this week. We'll see you
next time. Until then, I'm your host,
Adam Bass, and this is Mi Perspectives.
[Music]
