[Music]
Hello and welcome to the Enterprising
Investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahberg and today's guest is Rob Arnot,
founder and chairman of Research
Affiliates and one of the most
influential voices in quantitative
investing. With decades of experience
challenging conventional wisdom in asset
pricing and portfolio construction, Rob
has authored well over a 100 academic
papers, many of them award-winning, and
pioneered strategies that blend theory
with real world application, including
the practice of tactical asset
allocation.
Listeners may recall we had Ed McCory on
the show last year to talk about his new
paper that challenged the long-held
assumption that equities have always
reliably outperformed bonds. I remember
that conversation well because he told
me at the time and I forget if this was
offline or in the episode itself that he
was headed then in January, so January
25 to a CFA Institute webinar to discuss
or probably defend the findings with
Jeremy Seagull, Rob here, Roger
Ibbitson, Elroy Dimson, and Lawrence
Seagull. And I admit that hearing that
list of panelists made me a little
afraid for Ed at the time. The good news
is that today we are talking about a
furtherance of that research. Research
that Rob conducted together with Ed.
They recently co-authored a paper this
past spring titled Fear Not Risk
Explains Asset Pricing. This article
offers a provocative rethinking of how
markets actually reward investors and
what we've been getting wrong for
decades. I look forward to hearing more.
So, welcome to the show, Rob.
>> Thank you very much. It's a privilege
being here.
>> Before we get going here, tell me a
little bit about that webinar. How did
that go and how did that conversation go
and how did that sort of inspire you to
to work more with with Ed on this topic?
>> Well, firstly, these conversations are
wonderful fun because we all have a
mutual admiration society and deep
respect for one another. We just have
different opinions.
Um, uh, Jeremy Seagull's very important
contribution to the world of finance has
been his work on the equity risk premium
and his demonstration that over long
periods of time, stocks have reliably
beat bonds for the investor who's
patient enough.
And that's the key issue. it. A lot of
people read his writings as suggesting
that an investor with a 5-year horizon,
for instance, hardly anyone has a
horizon much longer than that, even
though they should. The odds of success
for stocks on a rolling 5-year basis is
actually not brilliant. And and Jeremy
would be the first to readily
acknowledge that. Ed McCquer's
contribution was to challenge stocks for
the long run by looking at the long-term
history. He's an empiricist and he's a
superb empiricist.
He took a deep dive into the sources of
long-term returns going back well before
the crisp data starts in 1926.
We had the cow's commission taking data
back to the 1870s.
We had Schwerk taking data back to 1802.
And these were based on studies that
turned out to be more superficial than
people realized.
And Ed took the data back to 1802
and found that stocks more broadly
defined than short did, more broadly
defined than cows did had performed a
little worse than people realize and
that bonds had performed a little
better. which means that the risk
premium had been smaller. Now, the other
thing that Ed and I both noticed is that
the data covered by the crisp data going
back to 1926 and by the Ibbits and
Sinkfield data going back to 1926
is heavily dominated by a half century
from 1950 to 2000.
Why is that important?
the stock market went from an 8%
dividend yield to a 1% dividend yield in
that 50-year span.
That means and we have a working paper
entit called revaluation alpha which
points out that if historical return
includes a revaluation and you assume
that historical return is predictive of
the future tacitly you're predicting
that the revaluation will continue
eight-fold revaluation. So does that
mean that we should expect 50 years?
Hence that the dividend yield on US
stocks will be 15 basis points for a
dividend yield
and the cape ratio would have to would
have to rise to about 300 to match that.
Um okay
if you do you want to assume mean
reversion that is to say when
revaluation happens it reverses course.
That's one possibility. That's that's
what Jeremy Grantham assumes in his
seven-year real return forecasts. It's a
little dangerous because you can enter a
new world where there's new risk
tolerances. People are living longer.
They don't have
if if your life expectancy is 50/50
chance you're going to be alive in 10
years. Chances are that you're going to
demand a pretty high risk premium to not
spend today. And if your life expectancy
is is 40 years or 60 years, you're going
to demand a smaller risk premium. You're
going to be fine with a lower risk
premium. And so if the risk prem if the
normal risk premium changes, then
revaluation can be sustained, but you
don't dare assume that it's going to
persist. Now back to the second half of
the 20th century. That 50year span saw
an eight-fold rise in valuation of
stocks measured against dividends.
Six-fold rise on a cape ratio basis.
That is huge.
The revaluation alone
accounts for 400 basis points of the
stock market's return peranom for 50
years. 400 basis points a year for 50
years. is attributable to revaluation.
A, you need to take that out.
So if the excess return for stocks was
8% over that span,
absent revaluation, it was four.
And if you take the revaluation out of
the entire century long span covered by
the Ibbitson data, the Ibbitson data
will have a century as of the end of
this year. And that century long span
would have been influenced to the tune
of about 200 basis points a year. So
when people look at the past and say
stocks have beat bonds over the last
century by 4 and a.5%.
Peranom compounded. Fantastic. Except
two of that was revaluation. Take that
out and you're looking at 2 and a half%.
So these are important observations
because the risk premium is smaller than
people think.
If the risk premium is smaller than
people think and the variability of
returns is exactly what people think it
is, then that means that the amount of
time you have to wait to have confidence
that you're going to win with stocks
goes up with the square of the decline
in risk premium. So if people are
assuming five and it's two and a half,
then that means you have to wait four
times as long to have confidence that
stocks will beat bonds. And sure enough,
when when McQuary redid the analysis
with painstakingly reconstructed stock
and bond returns over the 125 year span
ended in 1926,
painstakingly reconstructing those
returns to be more accurate, a more
complete picture. What you find is that
there was the entire 19th century bonds
beat stocks.
entire century. Most of us don't have a
century to wait for the risk pre to kick
in and and reward us for our choices.
Which tells us that the stock versus
bond decision is lightly based on a
presumptive risk premium and heavily
based on a tactical evaluation of which
is priced to produce a higher return.
Back in 2000, I wrote a paper, a death
of the risk premium. It got published in
the journal of portfolio management in
and basically it said look stocks have a
yield of one tips have a yield of four
stocks have inflation participation in
the dividends tips have inflation
participation in the coupon
and so
defining the risk premium using tips not
corporate bonds is actually a more
sensible comparison. Very few people to
this day, quarter century later,
have picked up on that, but still it's a
relevant comparison. So all stocks have
to do is have real earnings and dividend
growth of 3% a year,
which doesn't sound like a big hurdle.
3% real growth in earnings and dividends
to justify being a 3% lower yield.
That's what it would take to have a risk
premium of zero.
All right. Over the last hundred years,
what's been the real growth of earnings
and dividends? About 1 and a.5% a year.
So, if real growth is one and a half and
you've got a 3% shortfall, odd 30-year
tips,
we're back in approximately that
circumstance today, but with a much
smaller gap. You've got long tips
yielding 2 1/2, stocks yielding one and
a quarter. So real growth has to be one
and a quarter in order for stocks to be
long tips. The historic norm is a little
over one and a half. All right, that
means you might have a positive risk
premium of of 2 or.3%. Nobody buys
stocks expecting a risk premium of a
quarter%. And so tacitly it's a bet.
Stocks are a bet that earnings and
dividend yield will be much more robust
than has been the case over the last 100
years. Is that possible? Absolutely.
That's what Jeremy Seagull would argue.
So, this all formed the basis for us
recognizing I've long thought that CAPM
is built on a shaky simplification of
risk aversion. And this is not a
criticism of Bill Sharp. CAPM was a
brilliant innovation, an enormous leap
forward, but it tacitly assumes that
investors hate downside risk and upside
risk equally.
>> Mhm. Just beta is enough to capture it
and and it's it's it's volatility in all
directions.
>> Exactly. Now you or anyone listening to
this podcast, I would pose the question,
are you more uneasy about downside
volatility or upside volatility? I'm
guessing that somewhere around 99.9% of
us say, I don't like downside
volatility. I love upside volatility.
>> And even within that, there's a nuance
where where, you know, the the
behavioral scientists say that that we
we hate downside more than we appreciate
upside.
That's exactly right. So this is this is
where there's been a clash between
behavioral finance and academic
neocclassical finance
and finance neocclassical finance theory
posits that you have this symmetric risk
aversion which we know is false.
in our paper fear not risk uh drives
returns and the paper points out that
the fear is symmetric. It's fear of
downside risk. It's fear of missing out
on upside risk.
And what's what's beautiful about this
idea um by the way um we aren't by a
long shot the first people to think
about this. uh Cam Harvey wrote a
wonderful paper looking at upside skew
and so if you look at semivariance which
is the downside half of variance and
skew which is the upside asymmetry
those could be the two relevant measures
for a redefinition
of finance theory
in our paper we've been faulted
absolutely correct directly for not
advancing a new theory, for merely
offering a framework for a new theory.
Bluntly, I'm good at math. Ed is good at
math. We're both empiricists.
Neither of us is nearly as good at math
as the pioneers who've shaped
neocclassical finance. So the paper is
really an invitation to those who are
spectacular at math to flip the signs
and look at aversion to downside risk
and aversion to missing out on upside
risk.
And it could be skew or it could be
upside semivariance.
Either way, you're looking at a measure,
a quantitative measure that simply adds
one more dimension. Instead of aversion
to risk, it's aversion to this risk and
enthusiasm for this risk.
Now, if you do that,
you have an even more powerful tool
because in market in horrific bare
markets, people have lost a ton of
money. The fear of further losses
becomes intense.
The fear of missing out on upside fades
to be very mild.
And that creates an asymmetry where you
would expect a big risk premium.
And during stupendous bull markets,
basically 09 to 2025 has been a
stupendous bull market with a couple of
interruptions.
It's been astonishing.
When you get a stupendous bull market,
fear of missing out becomes intense
and fear of downside risk fades. In that
circumstance, you would expect a
negligible risk premium or even a
negative risk premium.
So revisiting finance theory to
acknowledge human nature to acknowledge
that people do not fear upside risk
except maybe just the little hint of
fear that if I just made 20% oh goodness
I could lose 20 but there's that little
twinge and it's only a twinge because we
love getting the 20%.
So
this is an invitation for those who are
extraordinary at math at the math of
finance to go win a Nobel Prize by
reshaping CAPM
to embrace the asymmetric fears which
are a fear of loss and a fear of missing
upside. It's interesting. I u if I could
interrupt for a quick sec, Rob, the uh
one of the things I liked that you guys
wrote in this in this paper was uh you
referenced Thomas Coon's reference to
paradigms. You're saying theories can
fail in the data forever until a new
better paradigm emerges. So I guess is
that effectively what you're hoping is
that you know the data has proven long
enough that you know that it the former
way of thinking about risk theory as the
as the driver or predictor of equity
risk premium. um or or asset pricing
really as the underpinning for that.
CAPM and model portfolio theory that
really the data doesn't surprise support
it as much as people have thought it has
for all this time and that perhaps fear
as opposed to risk is the way that
people should be thinking about it.
>> That's exactly right. So we're not
proposing a new paradigm.
We're proposing a framework for a new
paradigm that we encourage others to
develop. The academic community includes
a lot of people who are way better at
math than Ed and I are, but who are not
nearly as good as empiricists
or market historians as Ed or I are. And
encouraging
the academic community to stop clinging
to a theory that is so patently
obviously lacking. I won't say wrong
outright. I'll say lacking because it
lacks an acknowledgement of human
nature. It lacks an acknowledgement that
people like making money. They're not
afraid of it. They're not averse to it.
And if you simply acknowledge reality,
you're going to say the beautiful simple
math that's associated with CAPM
where risk aversion is relative to a
quadratic function. I mean, quadratic
functions are elements that most of us
were introduced to in roughly eighth
grade
>> and they source data that's readily
available, right?
>> And 8th grade math supplemented a little
bit with some college level whisbang
stuff creates a beautiful simple theory.
And we're saying that theory is wrong
and the correct theory
will be more complicated. But just one
baby step in the direction of that more
complicated simply splitting upside and
downside risk and saying people hate
this and love this.
>> Right. And and you talk in in the
article as well about you know the the
difficulty of quantifying that at least
historically about getting under the
skin of what people were you know more
appropriately entire markets full of
people are feeling at any given point in
time. Can you talk a bit about you know
some potential solutions to that to that
gnarly problem?
>> Well, the beauty of introducing this
new structure or building out a new
paradigm is that it can be
multi-purpose.
It can help define
how markets function and it can help us
also identify
when we're in frothy bubbles or in deep
bargain circumstances. Because if you
can quantify
fear of downside, fear of loss, and
quantify fear of missing out, and
instead of having just one metric for
risk aversion, have two metrics.
And if you can measure the market's
collective
aversion to downside and aversion to
missing upside and measure them relative
to one another, you have a wonderful
tool for those who are willing to buck
their natural human emotions to buy low
and sell high,
>> right? And you and and in order to
develop this and again this is there's a
bunch of math that has to happen and
then to develop the the data around
that. One idea you posit is that we
could harness the power of AI to test
sentiment somehow to read you know every
every um financial journal that's
published every day all the time social
media that sort of idea. be able to for
the first time in our history really get
a sense of sentiment, a market sentiment
that's not reliant on, you know, surveys
like we might have done to sort of
develop our gamma gamma signal. By the
way, speaking of AI, AI has is
phenomenal. It is people who don't play
around with it for several hours a week
are are missing an opportunity. Two and
a half years ago, we have an old hands
meeting every quarter. Two and a half
years ago at the all hands meeting, I I
said you're going to hear a lot about AI
in the months and years ahead. And it's
the real deal. You're going to hear a
lot about millions of jobs being
displaced. I want to assure everyone who
works for research affiliates, AI will
never take your job. Somebody who knows
how to use AI better than you do may
take your job. So study, get used to it,
play around with it, and don't be that
person who's displanted by somebody who
knows how to use it better than you. One
of the things I love doing these days is
Perplexity is an AI of AIS, and it's a
really powerful tool. It chooses which
AI is best suited to your question,
which is very cool.
We took the Fear paper, gave it to
Perplexity, and said, "Critique this.
Tell us what we're missing.
Tell us who's done work along these
lines that we might have missed in our
citations.
Tell us what the three most important
strengths and three most important
weaknesses of this paper are. And
Perplexity came back with in effect a
referee report. When I was editor of
FAJ, I saw hundreds of referee reports.
I never saw a single one that was as
detailed as what you can get out of AI
today. And it came back with critiques
very similar to the ones we got from the
FAJ referees, which were this is an
interesting paper. It plows new ground,
but it doesn't posit a specific theory.
It falls short. And that's exactly
right. It falls short. It falls short
because it it lays out a framework and
invites the academic world to please
stop clinging to something you know is
flawed and have known is flawed for 50
years
and start exploring ways to move it
towards an acknowledgement of behavioral
finance.
Human psyche matters.
So I want to I want to circle back to
just the application of of this
framework. We talked about you know
stock selection or asset valuation. How
would you see it applying to portfolio
construction given what we we know about
you know potentially the the wrong
conclusions that we've been making for
230 years around asset allocation
between stocks and bonds.
>> Well this can be used in a number of
ways. It can be used for early in my
career, I used dividend discount models
to estimate stock returns company by
company for the stock market as a whole
and comparing it with long bond yields
and for individual companies comparing
it with their own bond yields and came
up with very simple
value strategies and a very simple
tactical asset allocation strategy. In
fact, the first Graham and Dodd scroll
that I ever won was for a 1983 paper,
systematic asset allocation, which was
subsequently relabeled tactical asset
allocation. It It's funny, Bill FA was
the dominant player at Wells Fargo in
the tactical asset allocation arena. He
had billions of assets managed to
reflect the calculated risk premium for
the stock market. the higher the risk
premium and the higher the equity
allocation.
>> And he came up to me at a conference
right after we published the paper and
said, "You son of a You you told
the secrets."
>> And I I said, "Bill, you're right, but
I'm not going to apologize because
you're the dominant player. Watch what
happens to your AUM."
And
anyway, it was it was a funny exchange,
but it
risk premium
can be used for stock selection. It can
be used for asset allocation and
reefined
to recognize
that the risk premium really relates to
aversion to downside risk and seeking of
upside risk can make that a more nuanced
decision.
So, so in in an example, say say that
there was a huge signal for fear of
missing out, which if I'm doing the math
right in my head, it's basically
valuations are stretched because people
are piling into whatever the latest
bubble idea is. So, equities look less
attractive. So, the the high FOMO signal
tells you to underweight equities. Is
that
>> correct?
>> Is that correct? Okay. Now that also is
an implication of conventional asset
allocation drivers using conventional
risk premium measures but you get a more
nuanced picture. you get a a measure of
how it's stretched, why it's stretched,
and also very interestingly there may be
just as an example momentum
in the appetite for
upside in the increasing fear of missing
out. There may be a momentum component
that can help us
stay in
a frothy market until the turning point
is closer. uh so sort of first
derivative on that as it's moving
>> right so I see so much potential in this
but mostly the paper is a call to action
for academia to please stop
fussing around with
a a framework that you know is false
has been an amazing conversation Rob
thank you so much for indulging me uh to
chat about this article that I enjoyed
so much. Um, we do have a two-point
question at the end of the end of each
one of our episodes and I'm going to ask
you just like I do everyone else. Rob,
what was your first job in the industry
and if you could go back and take
yourself for coffee on your first day,
what key piece of advice would you offer
yourself?
My first job firstly, I tailored my
education to this career in high school.
I was kind of ambivalent about do I want
to pursue astrophysics or investments.
And I
fairly quickly realized
certainly by my first year of college
that astrophysics is pure math. And
I'm pretty good at math, but I'm not
brilliant at math. and advanced math,
which is central
to uh astrophysics,
I'd be good enough to be an adequate
astrophysicist.
I would do no pathbreaking work. And I
also realized at that time that
investing was a domain of narrative
storytelling
and negligible use of quantitative tools
and thought I can do some pretty
powerful work here. So let me pursue
finance. Well, my college education was
applied mathematics, computer science,
and economics, triple major, and my
first job was at the Boston company as a
computer programmer. I was offered four
jobs when I came out of college. Boston
company offered me the lowest pay of the
four because with each of the four, I
said, I want to spend a day a week doing
pure research of my own.
and you'll have credit for it and you'll
be able to monetize it, but I want to do
some pure research. And most of them
said, "Uh, do that on your own time."
Boston Company said, "We love the idea.
We'll pay you for 4 days a week."
I said, "Done deal." And if I had any
advice for my
23-year-old self, I actually started at
22 shortly before my 23rd birthday. The
advice would be when you learn something
new that is contrary to conventional
wisdom, just be aware you're going to
make a lot of people very angry
because what you're doing is telling
them that the core foundation of their
career on which they built their career
is flawed.
Case in point, when I wrote the paper,
Death of the Risk Premium, about five
years after that, I was at a Q
conference and went up to a guy I knew
and liked and said, "How's life?" And he
said, "Oh, life is good. By the way, I
no longer hate you." And I said, "What?"
He said, "When you wrote Death of the
Risk Premium, I hated you because you
were telling me that the essential
foundation of my career was wrong. And I
said, 'Okay, why do you not hate me
anymore?' He said, ' Because you were
right.
Anyway, it was it was eye opening. I
let's see, I was uh I was 50 when I had
that conversation. And so it wasn't
until my 40s that I was beginning to
realize how pissed off people got when
you challenge their core principles,
even if you're right. So,
I've been endlessly curious. That's been
the essence of my career. And
if something is a conventionally held
view, I will just automatically ask the
question, has anyone tested that? And
if not, I'll go test it. And often it
turns out to be correct. Great.
Fabulous.
Publish a short minor paper. And often
it turns out to be wrong.
Publish a paper that will rattle a few
cages. And so the the big shock to me in
the first 20 years of my career is how
often I pissed people off.
>> Well, having that it's it's courage at
the at the root of it, right? The uh the
courage to be right and the courage to
be wrong and uh and to rattle some cages
along the way. But I'm I'm glad you
continued for the next 25 years after
that uh death of the risk premium to to
challenge the industry and to challenge
your your peers. And I'm excited to see
where this uh where this fear narrative
goes. And hopefully someone takes up uh
the mantle and and your challenge to get
their calculators out and figure out a
way to quantify all this.
>> Exactly.
>> I've been speaking today with Ra Barnot,
founder and CEO of Research Affiliates.
The article again is called Fear Not
Risk Explains Asset Pricing. And I'm
just so thrilled that you came on the
show with me today. Again, thanks again
uh Rob.
>> Thank you. This has been great fun. I'm
Mike Wahberg and this is Beam, the
enterprising investor.
[Music]
