Hi, I'm Michael Zawatsky. There's been a
lot of discussion around private credit
recently, and we'd like to address the
most common questions we've been
getting. Let's just start with the
basics. Private credit is simply a
direct loan between a borrower and a
long-term investor. The reason why it's
getting a lot of attention is because
it's grown a lot as we've seen our
investors seek excess yield that you can
get from what we call the farm-totable
model. Private credit gets rid of all
the middlemen that exists in [music]
bank syndicated transactions and as a
result more of that return is captured
directly by end investors.
What we're doing is making first lean
senior secured loans to highquality
large-scale businesses with
institutional ownership. We're doing
that through deep private due diligence.
[music] And so when you put all of that
together, no, I don't believe what we're
doing in private credit is inherently
risky. I remember prior to the GFC a
typical investment would be funded with
65%
debt to total capitalization [music]
and that was actually down from 90%.
Today on average only 45% of the total
acquisition price of a company is funded
by debt. You need to have that company
lose over half of its total value before
our debt is even impacted.
I see those headlines too and I see lots
of different data out there. Defaults
can and will happen. That's a [music]
normal part of credit investing. But
when I step back and I look at what's
going on in the market, overall the
credit markets are quite healthy.
Earnings are growing strongly. Interest
coverage ratios are improving. And
defaults in public market loans are down
since the start of the year.
Well, I actually love that question
because [music] I've been doing private
credit my entire career and so this
makes me feel a bit young. But the
[music] truth is over the past two
decades, 20 years, private credit has
delivered approximately twice the return
of the liquid loan markets. In fact,
even in some of the worst years for the
equity markets, private credit has
outperformed. So [music] whether it's
safety, yield, consistency, or
outperformance, private credit has
delivered these things for decades,
especially in uncertain times. [music]
We love these questions. Keep them
coming, and I look forward to speaking
with you next time.
