You're right to invest in the stock market because
you're forced to take
risks. You're right not to buy
property, especially if you want to move around.
You have no fees. You have a
long-term vision, you have
clearly defined objectives. You optimize your
taxes, your assets are liquid.
100%, it makes sense, right? And
you literally tick all the
boxes. There's no major mistake, really
. It's maybe
22 years old and well, it's perfect. 100 out of
100. Well, he ticks all the boxes.
Our engineer in
nuclear ventilation. It's very
precise. He told us, "I estimate my need
at €3300 per month to live
comfortably in an emerging country."
So first of all, I don't know about you, but I'm thinking that
paying €3300 a
month for an emerging country might be a bit of a
dissonance, because €3300 is more
for living comfortably in a
large city in a developed country.
What assets does
our engineer have? So very heavily
invested in stocks, 63% of the initial €40,000 in
accounts, so I imagine that's in
savings accounts, maybe LEP since
he's quite young, and a little bit of
crypto 10%, very financial, there's no
real estate and it's very
liquid. Net worth. So, you
see, well, €22,000, so there's a
€40,000 loan, we'll see maybe, I don't know,
a
pre-student consumer loan. So, uh, 22 years old, living with my partner,
no children, apprentice uh,
nuclear ventilation engineer.
Learning is pretty good, it's a
good formula. It allows you to
finance your studies while being
considered as having full-time employment, I do
n't know what it's called. That's what
's interesting. In fact, he tells us about it
. Here, we have access to
employee savings, which is a very nice
scheme, very poorly understood, and
I imagine he works at EDF or maybe at
a big company like Areva,
and so naturally, there are some
nice schemes. So, how does
it break down here? €1750 plus
travel expenses plus a 13th month high school bonus. In the
summer, meal vouchers, the famous €230 and
matching contributions to your group savings plan,
you may have a company savings plan
PEE PEG, it's the same thing
and PER retirement savings plan obviously
€150 plus €100 of help from parents.
Well, the parents are generous because
I'm not sure he needs help.
We'll see if he's
shared his budget with us. I am comfortable
with risk without an inheritance and am a follower
of the Fire movement. What is the
Fire movement? I had done a finale
with Victor Laura who was
for a while the standard-bearer of
this movement. He wrote a book on the
subject and so the idea is to say that the
more you invest a
significant portion of your salary, the sooner you
will be able to retire
. It's not a retirement in the sense that
you receive a state pension, but
on the other hand you will be able to stop
working. There is a whole whole whole whole
study with the Trinity study
in particular which shows that
in general if you withdraw less than 4% of
your assets per year, you will never be
ruined. So that means that you have,
for example, 1 million euros, and every
year you withdraw 4% of €40,000, in fact
your capital will never lose value, and
this Trinitarian study has studied
all the scenarios over the last 100
years. So there are obviously many crises
and so we see that in
no case does the capital go to zero, so we are
never ruined. On the other hand, it does
mean that you are selling capital, and
I think that's a
relatively widespread belief, that
people who are rentiers have
passive income. No, actually, they are
rentiers but they sell capital, which
is not a problem. If you sell 4%
but have achieved a
performance of 10%, ultimately your
capital continues to grow. So where
it becomes problematic is if
you sell more than the
growth rate of your capital. And the worst thing,
generally speaking, is to start
your fire or retirement at the moment the
crisis begins because then your
capital will fall very sharply and
you will have to spend it, and that
can be problematic. But anyway
, basically, Fires
try to set savings rates
between 40 and 50% generally in order to be
able to go there. So, we'll see if
our friend here does that. But I imagine that's pretty much
his goal. The
goal is to earn 1 million euros net by the
age of 40. I remind you that today
he has €22,000 and he is, uh, 22 years old. So,
uh, in 18 years, we're going to have to make a
huge leap. We'll see if it's
possible. My goal is to reach 1
million euros net worth by
age 40, starting from scratch with no inheritance.
Well, he didn't start from zero, but he did start from
zero back then. I then want to
settle in Thailand or
South America and live off the income from my
capital, either via the 4% rule, which is what
I was talking about
2 seconds ago, or via a Lombard loan.
So, I'm going to put the link to
the video I made on the subject in
the description. The idea of
Lombard credit is that you will take out a
loan not guaranteed by your
salary, as is often the case
when buying real estate and
using a guarantee. Well, in this case,
it's guaranteed by your capital and therefore
your shares. So in practical terms, you
have a stock portfolio and the
bank will lend you money against that
stock portfolio. This is something that is done a
lot in
private banking, and is now becoming more widespread
in online banks as well.
Bourseau typically offers this, but it
allows you to continue
reinvesting or even live off
your capital through a loan that you
will obviously have to repay.
I estimate my need at €3300 per month
to live comfortably in an
emerging country. So, we look at its cash flow
. As a reminder, you can
run cash flow simulations, uh,
budget simulations, basically, uh, here or
directly in Finari. Moreover, if
you connect your account, you have
exactly the same thing. Finally, you
connect your bank accounts. And
so, we see that the
monthly investments amount to €950. Alright.
So, we're looking at a savings rate of 36
%. So, you see, earlier I was
talking to you about the Fire movement. We
are still at a rate that is quite
high, but we are not yet at
crazy rates. I analyzed the
assets of people who had more than
50%. So what is he doing? He deals with
PEA, crypto, group savings plans
, retirement savings plans and
Financial Life. Then there's his rent.
So he is obviously a tenant, well obviously
not necessarily since he has a
pre-student. You can well imagine that
here we are in a scenario where our friend
has probably invested with his
pre-student, which I do not recommend,
but well, everyone does as they
please. The groceries, we're really talking about very
small groceries, €200 per
month. Restaurant expenses, the leisure budget is
n't huge but well, it's in line with
student life. And then there are
subscriptions, sport is extremely important, and
of course Finar is essential for
financial well-being. So, comfortable with
the risk, in March 2026, I took out
a student loan of €40,000 over 9 years at
1.2% with a 3-month deferral, entirely
dedicated to investment. Okay,
clearly, I remind you that
pre-students aren't meant for that,
okay? Now, it's true that I've had a
lot of cases there in recent
years and besides, I also know that
some students who have done
internships at Finar do it. Well, they did it
successfully, but you have to be
aware of the risk. So, there he has a
3-month deferral, which means that in concrete
terms, we will see if it is
a partial or total deferral, but he does
not pay interest at a minimum. Perhaps he's
not repaying any capital either.
But anyway, the rate is very low, 1.2
%, that's excellent. Today,
mortgage rates are
more like 3.5%, so it's much
higher. After that, it's a 9-
year loan, so obviously shorter, but
it's still very interesting. We
had a lot of people at one point who
had 0% loan rates who
really had pre-student loans
with no interest, just
principal repayment. And that's what I had in
my time. I think I had
€50,000 for myself, I paid for my studies
with it, I didn't invest it,
but it was a huge boost. From the
first day I received the funds,
I invested 50%, or €20,000, in Lume.
That means in one go. He didn't do
DCA, he didn't invest month by month.
He invested everything at once. This has
historically been the most
profitable way to invest, since it is actually
better to be in the market than
to try to time the market. Well,
now it's obviously very difficult
psychologically, but hey, he did it
. I lost €2000, that's what he
told us in 2 or 3 days, the start of the
war in Iran. Seeing this, I took the
opportunity to strengthen my position.
OK, so rather, uh, we're really dealing with
someone who is in control. The remaining 50%
is invested in DCA over 1 year at
€1500 per month. Cash held
in a savings account. So basically, he
really optimized the pockets and I'm
going to show it to you again on Finarid. So
he has his savings account here and so every month
he comes to draw money to make a DCA.
It's not actually an anti-aircraft defense system because
if it is an anti-aircraft defense system, it's just that it's
not automated, it's not a
planned investment, it's definitely a defense
system. Unlike my classmates
, I am not in a hurry to buy
my primary residence. I like to move around,
I don't have a
particular place to call home. I'm planning to move into
a small apartment with my copy in September
. I don't spend a lot
to treat myself. That's what
I saw too. I
prefer to tell myself that I will enjoy it
later without depriving myself. So,
I think that's really the phrase, it's a
bit of a double-edged sword because in
reality yes, it's important to
plan for the future and the reality is that
those who start very early, there are plenty
of examples around me of people who
bought real estate as soon as they
graduated and who were therefore spending every
weekend renovating
apartments and everything. Okay, today they
have 10 apartments, they have 15 apartments. Well, some people have
dozens. So
obviously, they finally have it, they are
enjoying it, but it has also involved
sacrifices. Well, there you have it, it's up to you
. What is certain is that the
younger you are, the younger you invest, the
higher your savings rate, the better things
will go for the future. Now,
I think the important thing is not to
deprive yourself, but right now, I don't get
the impression that you seem to be
suffering because of this.
Thanks to my company, I have access to the
group plan. There you go, as I was
saying, PEG, retirement plan which
both include matching contributions.
What does that mean? Well, he
explains it to us here. I send €50
directly from my salary and I receive
€100 in BIGIG share matching contributions. So
, just so you understand, this
means he has a 200
% matching contribution. If he puts €50 out of his own pocket, the
company gives €100 worth of
free shares. No need to play the lottery.
There, you have free money, that's
employee savings. Generally, it's
not explained very well. Everyone
is a little overwhelmed by events.
We talk about it casually, between other things.
But this is a huge system
because, in concrete terms, it receives
BIG shares. In addition, it offers a 50% return over 5
years or 27% over 1 year. So you
only have free shares, but in
addition you have the increase in the
share price and you
probably have a dividend, so you do
n't have a dividend. Does it pay
a dividend? I
honestly think so, here it is, the proposed dividend
for the financial year. The dividend is
constantly increasing. So you see
, here we are at €2.10, up 5%.
So it's a profitable company. You have to
be profitable in order to pay
dividends. And then, he has the PER (Retirement Savings Plan) with a
€50 transfer topped up by €50 to €100
per month, a fund replicating the Eurostock
600. Well, it's a good
PE (Retirement Savings Plan), but well, this one is a little less
interesting, in my opinion, since
the money is locked until retirement,
but well, it's free money,
so he's right to go and
maximize it. So, before looking at
his assets, we're going to look at the
stock picking questions. How many
shares should I keep in my PEA (equity savings plan)? The 1-2% positions in
the PEA seem pointless to me. Is my strategy
aligned with my goal of being
40 years old? How to sell
intelligently? This is a
topic we haven't covered much but
that comes up often: how to
sell a stock? When
should you sell a stock? When
should you take your profits?
Typically lately, you've been
talking about the war in Iran.
Obviously, it was interesting to
take profits on gold and perhaps switch back
to
commodities. The problem was that we had to
get out very quickly because the
barrel fell back down and then it started up again
. So it's obviously not
easy, but I think we'll make a
dedicated video. We really cover this
topic in detail, which I think is
important. Is it possible to take out
an IMO loan to buy SCPIs? We
look at his assets. We had already
looked at his booklet, on which, well, there's
not much. All we know is that it's
the stamp booklet. Actually, it
might be interesting for
him to open a LP to get a
higher rate. So, the rate isn't
significantly higher, is it? Uh, the
booklet is 1.5, the LP is 2.5. There is
a point of interest to be found
. I'm going to open a LP. That's
free, that's
free money. Besides, it's good, it's capped
at €10,000 but since you had €16,000
you can still put some of it
to work. I imagine the PEA is
with Bourseau. Well, it's very US
obviously with the SNP. Next,
emerging market, Europe. So it's
interesting, he didn't use Word, he
preferred to reconstruct the
clues somewhere, making pockets in the US, emerging markets, and
Europe. Then came stock picking, and that's where
he told us he had
a doubt because he has Hermes which has taken a
pretty big hit, but he hasn't had it for
very long. Luxury in general has
become quite expensive. LVMH, there you go, you have
positions at 140, 300, 500. On a
PEA of €30,000 it's true that it does
n't seem very optimal, knowing that each
time there are fees. Obviously,
you buy, you sell, you take
costs. Uh, and so that's also why
we generally advise against
doing trading, since trading is very good
, but the one who wins in
trading is the broker. In fact,
most brokers push you to
trade. That's why they're
constantly giving you news, feeds, and
information about what's
happening. It's not to
please you, it's because it actually
encourages action and the courier
earns when the savings stock is turning over.
It's the turnover of savings stock that, uh,
makes its money, you know. So the more
you trade, the more costs you generate, and
therefore the more you naturally degrade your performance
. So here I am, well what do
I see? I
'm not entirely convinced by stock
picking, you know that. Then again, if you
have strong convictions about those titles,
why not? Now you've
bought about ten of them. I'm tempted to say,
why not buy the K40 in that
case. But at the same time, you already have it
in the Eurostock. If we see
France here, it is obviously present
in the Eurostock. I would sell the
smaller positions because, well, unless
you have a very strong conviction, and I would
strengthen the position on which you
see the most medium- to long-
term potential. And maybe I won't do the drying
on the small lines, I'll only do it
on the ones you
really like the most. And I imagine it's
those three ETFs. And we can see that, well,
the returns are already quite nice despite
the investment at a time that may
seem quite unfavorable, but there is
n't much to improve in itself. Well,
you see, the costs are obviously at rock
bottom because, well, there are no
unpleasant surprises, everything is
fine. The dividends are pretty
good too. 2% isn't huge,
but then again, you see, it's
a capitalizing ETF. So this one does
not distribute dividends,
it is reinvested. And that's better because in
fact it will
accelerate the creation, or rather the
generation, of compound interest and it
avoids a tax friction. So, there is
no tax friction in the PEA,
but if it had been in a compute,
there would have been friction at the time of the
dividend payment. So regarding the PEA, I
want to say yes, I will remove the
small lines, but it doesn't seem
super important to me. If it helps you
sleep better at night, take them off. Otherwise,
just stop contributing and invest
your DCA on the major lines. The
Group savings plan, well that's magnificent,
45% plus €1300 because in fact he
received free shares. Don't
forget that this is where you'll
find the €100 offered when he
contributes €50. So this is really the
super good plan and so you have some
pretty crazy situations. I
worked at Sanofi at one point. As an
apprentice, I received €10,000 or
€8,000 in profit-sharing bonuses.
So you can imagine, it's
enormous how profitable it was. And
you had people, some of my
colleagues, who had been there for 20 years
because it was a company that paid
very well and had
monstrous savings plans, in fact. There were
multi-million dollar savings plans
because, in fact, the stock, well, the
stock wasn't super successful. The
fact remains that, well, it's a stock
that pays a dividend. It was also possible to make
adjustments within the
savings plan to invest in other investment
vehicles. What I did, I
still have that support. Well, it's
stagnated a bit over the last 5 years. He has, he has
done, he is practically neutral. Look, I was there
in 2010. I had
the matching contribution the first time when it was around
€40 per share
and I reallocated everything, I don't remember exactly, to around
€80 something like that, and I
still have that investment. Today I've
invested in a highly diversified fund
that's very well managed, and so it's
ETFs, specifically. It's not a
global ETF, but it's a representation of the
global ETF with something a bit smarter.
So you have situations like that,
and if you're with
the company for a long time, well, obviously you'll accumulate, accumulate, accumulate. As
your salary increases, you'll
accumulate even more, so it can be
very interesting.
Of course, you have to like the job,
but just know that. So that's a
big advantage of large companies. That's
the PER I think he was
talking about. The performance is also quite good.
€1000, that's it, it's blocked. So there are a
few cases of unlocking, but I
find that less interesting. Then there's
a Republic trade where he
indulges himself with some stock picking. I think it's a bit of a
shame to buy
Ferrari or Pernoricard in a
compute; you might as well buy it in a PEA.
And as for Indian shares, I'd say the same thing,
I think there's an
Indian ETF compatible with PEA. There you go, you have this one
in principle, you have
others. So there might be a
small trade-off to be made there. Okay, the
positions are very, very small,
but right now you're at a loss. Therefore, capital
losses can be carried forward over
several years. So, it can be
interesting to sell and buy back
on the PEA and that the capital loss, you
can obviously uh attributable to a
future capital gain. For
example, if you sell your Nvidia stock,
well, net, then you have less
capital loss than capital gain, but that will
limit the income tax you will
pay. Finally, the capital gains tax
in this case. We didn't watch, uh,
Financial Life. Well, Finar Life is
profiled management. So there's not much
to say, it's the uh
offensive profile he's adopted. Uh, an ETF. Well, there you go
. Uh, by the way, if you want to
discover the free management system, we
launched it a few weeks ago. You
have a huge amount of support, you
even have the list here. So, you
can go and get it. What is there
? There are UCITS, ETFs,
shares, PE and the
Neuronéissima fund. So, quite a lot of things.
If you want to build your basket
of units of account or
air supplier, well, you now have the
possibility. So, does your
strategy align with your objective
of firing? B I feel like saying yes, you know.
Today we look at heritage
from a distance, we take a step back.
What's the result? This gives Forcei an
allocation of 64% equities, cash, but
cash that is shifting
towards equities and crypto
. Yes, that's exactly what needs to be
done. The Fire team is forced to
take risks because, uh, that's what
will allow them to generate
returns. Remember, there is no
return without risk.
Capital-guaranteed products are generally
products with very low returns.
So there's no choice then. You
have to take a little risk if you
want a little more return, and so
after that it really depends on
your appetite for risk. So we
did the simulation. We started with
your current assets. So obviously
we took the net assets since the
gross assets include a loan of €40,000
. We split it between the stock market and
the rest. The rest is in cash. Let's
say you're going to invest everything in the stock market
and that you're going to invest €2000 per
month. Currently you are earning
€1000 per month. So, we put 24000 here.
Now you're going to ask me, "Why 24000
?" Whereas earlier, we were saying that he was
investing 1000 per month. Because in
fact, upon closer inspection, we see
that nuclear engineers can still
earn significantly more.
Junior profile 3005 gross, after a few
years of experience, you're at 5000. Well
, investing 2000 per month when you're
at 5000 and when you have your discipline, it doesn't
seem unreasonable at all. Especially
if you're in a relationship and therefore
share the costs of rent,
among other things. So that could be
interesting. Now, what does the
simulator say? I remind you that this is
purely illustrative, but nevertheless, there are still
some
interesting indications. You were obviously given
the remaining 18 years of savings.
Regarding the stock market performance, we were
quite realistic, weren't we? This is the
historical stock market performance. I
remind you that there is inflation, so
we have included inflation. Here you have the
return on the remaining 5%, the
tax rates since we
assumed you were investing via the PEA, and
so that gives us a net worth of
€665,000, which is still very good
at 40 years old, almost entirely financial, and
besides, you see, the wealth is
accelerating rapidly because in fact, in
recent years with this net worth, it
generates €40,000 per year, even €50,000
because you are obviously generating
interest on
very significant amounts, and a million
seems unattainable to me, to be honest,
you would have to invest much
more, €35,000. And finally, it seems
impossible to invest €35,000, that
would mean €3,000 per month. That
means you would have to earn significantly
more or perhaps consider moving
abroad.
But in this case, it seems very complicated. What else
could you do
? Well, obviously, investing over a
longer period. That's it, 23 years old. Well, there you go
, that would get you close. 25, I
think you'll be very, very
short. It's complicated at 40, but
realistic a few years later.
Now, if I go back to
your initial briefing, how to sell
intelligently, that's going to be a real
question. There are several techniques.
You can sell once a year. If once
you are retired, let's
say, or you are living off your income, or
rather your capital, you can sell
every month. No, it's stressful
because you have to manage yourself, you have to
pilot, and so on. But here's the thing, what we
see is slightly every
month, every quarter, or uh, once
a year. I prefer to
sell regularly to avoid having any kind of
threshold effect, you know.
So I would say once a quarter
to be on the safe side. You see, with the
war in Iran, typically, we've had a
lot of variation, and so
if we take the SNP over 5 years, well, there hasn't been a
major crisis,
but, well, if you sell once
a year and you sell at that time
in 2025, it's a bit of a pain.
Whereas if you sell every
quarter, I think you're still
pretty comfortable. And uh yes, you
may have crises, you will
certainly have them, but you will also end up
selling at very high points and
so in the end net, you will find yourself in it.
No, the question I was asking myself was more like, does it make
sense to have
€3300 per month? So we dug
a little deeper to see how much it cost to
live in Argentina, a country where inflation
is crazy.
Well, it has gone down now because there have been
some pretty
radical measures. In fact, I talk about it in
the video on economic currents
because what Ravier Milei does is
actually and it's really the application of a
rather libertarian theory. And it seems to be
working. So obviously
it has other repercussions and other
consequences, but it seems to be working.
So, to live comfortably,
a single person needs €870 per
month. If you live in Argentina, or
have friends or family who
live in Argentina, I'm curious
to hear your opinion. Now, a
family of four should budget
€2700. Let's say that at €2000
you're well within your budget, a priori. And
that's convenient actually, we can see that
if I come back here and put the 18 years,
well, you'll probably get the €2000.
So now we'll have to look at the
tax situation and all that. But I still get
the impression that your assets are
very well positioned to do
exactly what you want. Especially since
you're also aiming for Thailand where the
cost of living is, I think, lower. That seems
pretty realistic to me.
Look at an apartment in Buenozer,
three bedrooms for €1000, that's still
quite attractive. Moreover, since we are
talking about real estate, it is important to
talk about SCPIs. Is it possible to
take out a loan? Of course it's
possible to take out a loan. You can
take out a loan, you can take out an
IMO loan, you can take out a
consumer loan. Now, what you need to know is that
on a SCPI, the loan, or rather the
monthly payment, will never be covered by
rents or dividends. So you'll
definitely have to pay more out of your own pocket, but
why not? This can be a way to
generate income, but be careful, you
need to diversify properly. So you
need to invest in several SCPIs. You need to
choose SCPIs that invest in
several countries and have
several types of assets. So you
really have to go there, go there with
caution. But it's entirely
possible. Since you're on a permanent contract, well,
you'll soon be on a permanent
contract, I imagine. You will have no
problem getting a loan.
Obviously the only thing to keep in mind
is that you have your €40,000 loan.
It's clear that you're still in a
deferred period. In fact, we were looking at,
uh, you see, today you are in
partial deferment, you pay the interest, you
pay, you do not repay the capital, but
soon you will start repaying.
Here we see the amortization curve
which will take you to, uh, 2034
where you will have finished repaying this
loan and so there you have the
partial deferment, it is there. So obviously this
will lower your borrowing capacity, it
will be taken into account by the bank at the
time of the loan and therefore you have to see if you
really want to take out a loan to
buy SCPIs and therefore get into an
investment which is illicit. But what we see a lot of is
people buying bare ownership a
few years before retirement to
get a discount on the share price
and so when they retire
, they obviously have more
rent for a reduced price and that can
be interesting and generally when they
retire less income and so
their marginal tax rate
decreases and so the SCPIs take over
so they are taxed less.
So we have a kind of washout effect
because when you are heavily taxed
with a marginal tax bracket, you don't
have rent because you don't
need it, and when you switch to
retirement, you add the
rents, but since you receive them on a
lower marginal tax bracket, you
pay less tax. So I get
the impression that what you want to do you
have exactly the
right assets for, and that's also why
the rating reflects that. I don't see any
particular optimization. You're
right not to buy property,
especially if you want to move around. You're right
to invest in the stock market because
you're forced to take risks. Uh,
you don't have any fees. So, there isn't, there isn't, there isn't a
big mistake,
actually. Perhaps we could
do a little less stock
picking, a few small adjustments.
But otherwise, if we look at the score, 100
% is logical, right? You
literally tick all the boxes.
We obviously didn't take the
real estate part into account because it doesn't
interest you. But otherwise everything is
fine. You invest in yourself, you have a
long-term vision, you have
clearly defined objectives, you optimize your
taxation, your assets are liquid,
it's solid. So, uh, well done, and that's
his strategy. Ultimately,
you don't have to do Fire and
want to go to Argentina. You
can do what you want, buy
an apartment and such, but you
see that he, with very
clear intentions and an estate that in some ways
tells the same story as his
intentions, produces very good
results. So, well done to you. If you
would also like me to analyze your
assets, you can apply via the link
in the description. Each week, we
will choose a new profile and then we
will analyze it together. So I
wish you good investments and I'll see you
next week. See you soon
.
