Most video editors try to make their
animations look better by adding more
things, but the truth is the cleanest
animations come from a much simpler
approach. Once you understand this
approach, creating those smooth UI
animations becomes way easier. So, in
this video we're going to be creating
Apple style UI animation to show you how
this type of movement is actually built
from scratch. And the best part is that
once you understand the logic behind it,
it's going to be so effortless for you
to create these animations. All right,
that being said, let's lock in right now
and learn something new. But before we
begin, there are only 24 hours left to
get the 3-in-1 bundle. I'm preparing a
big update and plenty of assets are
being removed forever. So, if you grab
it now, you'll get everything that's in
the bundle plus the big future update
for free. There are plenty of drag and
drop assets to speed up your workflow
and you can customize it however you
like. So, if you don't want to build
everything from scratch, this is for
you. But once the timer hits zero, this
version of the bundle is gone forever.
Link is in the description and now let's
get into it.
So, the first thing you want to do is
create a new comp. I've already created
one, so I'm just going to show you the
comp settings. Resolution 1920 by 1080,
frame rate set to 60, and duration 10
seconds. Let's hit okay. So, the first
thing you need to do is create a minimal
background. So, for this I'm going to
right click, go to new, solid, and here
in the color I'm going to pick that hex
code. Let's hit okay and rename to BG.
I'm going to hit okay again. So, now you
want to head over to the toolbar and
grab the round rectangle tool, and we're
just going to create a shape in the
middle like that. I'm going to re-center
and then we're going to need to fix some
settings. So, first head over to the
color and change it to this hex code and
hit okay. And then in shape properties
we're going to change the roundness to
95. Also, we can uncheck constrain
proportions, create a key frame for
size, then move it forward, and we're
going to squeeze it in like that. So,
that's what you should have. Then hold
shift, click P, and create a key frame
for position, align that key frame with
the second one, and we're going to go a
little bit lower. All right, we can
squeeze in the key frames for a faster
movement, and then what I'm going to do
is rename the layer to frame.
We're also going to need one more
property, which is going to be rotation,
so I'm going to hold shift, click R,
then create a key frame for rotation,
move back to the beginning, and we're
just going to adjust it maybe like that.
Once you've set up the key frames, make
sure to head over to the comment section
below and grab the expression I left for
you. Once you copy the expression,
alt-click the stopwatch for size and
paste the expression over here. Then
we're going to do it accordingly with
other properties.
Just like that. So that way we're going
to get that bouncy look. Next step would
be creating the text. So I'm going to
grab the type tool and I'm going to type
in timers. Let's re-center and put it a
little bit towards the left. Then once
you've done that, we're going to need to
parent our text to the frame. But make
sure that the time indicator is at the
moment when everything stops. So I'm
going to have it over here and then I'm
going to use parent and link. So that
way it's going to follow our frame, but
we're also going to add an expression to
our text. So now if you open up the
properties for the text and go to
animate, you want to pick position, then
change the Y value to 30,
then go over to add property, and we're
going to pick opacity. Here you want to
change opacity to 0%, and then we're
going to need one more thing, which is
the expression window. So for this I'm
going to go to add selector, and I'm
going to pick expression. So now if I
open it up and go over to the amount,
you're going to notice the expression
window over here. So now you want to go
over to the comment section again and
grab the second expression I left for
you.
Then copy the expression and paste it
over here. Once you've done that, make
sure to change based on characters to
words,
and that way the text is also going to
have its own bouncy movement. So
together with parent and link, it's
going to look a little bit better. So
now as you can notice, we have a little
bit of room over here for our icon. So
I'm going to grab it from the project
panel and put it on the timeline.
Remember guys, you can find it in the
description below. Then I'm going to
definitely scale it down and place it on
the right. And then over here to the
icon, we're going to need to add
position key frames. So for this I'm
going to hit P, create a key frame, move
it forward, and then drag it lower
to around the position of our frame. We
can squeeze it in a little bit, and also
we're going to need the expression. So,
I'm going to hit you over here, open up
size, copy the expression,
then alt-click the stopwatch for
position, and paste it here. So, that
way you're going to have something like
that. It's a little bit too late, so I'm
going to squeeze it in.
And this seems to be good enough. We
might actually have it in a bit
different position. Then around the time
when everything stops, we're going to
add another movement. So, for this, I'm
going to open up keyframes for frame,
and then we're going to create a
keyframe for size, move forward, and
we're just going to expand our rectangle
to something like that.
Maybe even more.
So, that's what you should have.
And together with that, we kind of want
to also animate our text and our icon.
So, for this, I'm going to select these
two, create a keyframe for position,
then move forward, and for example, this
icon is going to move over to the right
bottom corner, and the text is going to
go lower like that.
So, you should have something like that,
but at the same time, you kind of want
to make these icons and text disappear.
So, for this, I'm going to add opacity
keyframes,
then move forward, and we're going to
change it to 0% at around this time. And
then whenever it disappears, we can trim
these layers, so it doesn't bother us.
The next step would be creating the
button with the text start, and this is
going to replace our icon from here. So,
what you want to do is head over here,
grab the ellipse tool this time, and
we're going to create a circle in the
middle. Then rename the layer to button,
and then also as for the color, you want
to pick that hex code.
Then hit okay, and now in the middle of
the circle, we're going to need the text
start. So, I'm going to grab the type
tool,
and I'm going to make sure to create a
new text, then type in start, recenter
the text, and then as for the color,
we're going to pick that hex code. So,
we have a nice contrast between dark
green and bright green. Then what we
want to do is have the text follow our
circle. So, what I'm going to do is use
parent and link, and I'm going to parent
it to the button. So, now whenever you
move the button, you're also going to
move the text. So, let's hit U for
everything and now what we want to do is
place our button on top of our icon. So,
I'm going to take the button, place it
over here, then create a keyframe for
position. I'm going to align the time
indicator with the second keyframe over
here and what we want to do is place it
in the right bottom corner.
So, let's do it like that. Then also
we're going to need an expression. So,
I'm going to open it up, copy the
expression, alt-click the stopwatch for
the button for the position, and paste
it here.
So, you're going to have something like
that,
but it can start randomly like that. We
actually need to trim these layers to
this position.
Then what we could do is fade it in so
it's smooth. So, for this I'm going to
add opacity keyframe over here, go to
the beginning, and change it to zero.
So, now just to get rid of that text as
well, I'm going to go over to the modes
and I'm going to use the track mat. So,
now if you parent the track mat to our
button, then our text is going to
disappear and it's going to show up
whenever the button has opacity at 100%.
So, now it automatically disabled our
button, so we're going to turn it back
on. And let's see what we got.
All right, it's a bit smoother now, but
I would probably just take these
keyframes, move them forward,
and have them like that.
All right, so we've made a little bit of
room over here for our minutes. So, for
this I'm going to grab the type tool.
I'm going to type in 20.
Then I'm going to recenter the layer and
what you want to do is right-click, go
to pre-compose, and we're going to
rename it to minutes. Then make sure
remove all attributes into the new comp
be selected, then hit okay, and we're
going to go over to that layer. So, now
here what we're going to need to do is
create more numbers. So, basically you
just want to duplicate this, push it a
bit higher, then change the value to 19,
and maybe make a little bit more room,
and then subsequently you just want to
keep doing that unless you have the
whole screen filled out. So, I'm going
to duplicate this, change it to 18,
make more room, duplicate again, change
to 17,
and on the other side I'm going to do
the same thing.
All right, so that's how it's looking.
And then also we're going to need to
duplicate that text one more time. Then
push it to the right and we're going to
change it to minutes.
Okay, then I'm going to decrease the
size.
And then maybe here I'm going to
probably use something grayish.
Then make sure to place the minutes on
top. And we're also going to need to
create a new null object. So just
right-click, go to new, null object, and
rename it to all one. Now I'm going to
place that null object below our
minutes, and I'm going to select
everything beneath our null object. Then
I'm going to parent it to our all one
layer. And that way we can control
everything with only this. So now what
we want to do is separately create a
movement for the numbers and also for
the text over here. So I'm going to
select these two, then hit alt shift P.
That way I have two keyframes for
position, and I'm going to move to the
beginning. Now I'm going to push it
higher, just like that. And then in
terms of all one, I'm just going to push
it a bit higher. So there's a little bit
of difference between these two
movements. Then I'm going to select all
four keyframes, hit F9, go to the graph
editor, and here you want to push the
peak towards the left, just like that.
Okay, looks pretty cool. Now the problem
is that it doesn't really look like an
iPhone. So for this I'm going to
right-click, go to new, adjustment
layer. Let's rename the layer to optics.
And we're going to apply optics
compensation. So here you want to change
the field of view to around 130.
Maybe I went overboard. Yeah, something
like that should do. So now it's going
to look exactly like an iPhone, but the
problem is that we don't want to target
minutes over here. So I'm going to place
that layer below minutes, and then also
I'm going to create another adjustment
layer. So let's go to new, adjustment
layer, place it below, and this is going
to be called exposure {slash} blur. So,
here what we want to do is make the
middle value the most visible. So, I'm
going to apply exposure.
Then, I'm going to decrease the value
like that. And also, I'm going to apply
Gaussian blur.
So, if I bump it up, it's going to
become blurry.
And now, what we could do with this is
select our adjustment layer,
go over to the rectangle tool, and we're
just going to create a rectangle in the
middle. So, now the clue is to invert
the mask. So, I'm going to click on
invert it,
open it up, and change the feather.
Okay, so that way it's going to look
somehow like that. Then, we can actually
close it down, and I'm going to go over
to our main animation. So, now whenever
we have the second movement, we need to
introduce our minutes. So, I'm going to
place it over here,
probably like that. And let's see. Okay,
it looks pretty cool, but the problem is
that it doesn't have any bounce. So, for
this, I'm going to make sure to apply
position keyframe, then go over to the
beginning, and we're going to probably
push it towards the right. Just like
that.
All right, but also we're missing one
thing, which is the expression. So, I'm
going to hit U, grab the expression from
here, and we're going to all click the
stopwatch, paste it here, and we should
be good.
Okay, starts to look pretty cool.
I feel like we could scale it down just
a bit. And as you can notice, it's
extending beyond the frame. So, for
this, we need to close it down, then go
over to the modes, and we're going to
make sure that the track mat here is set
to our frame. That way the frame
disappears, so we need to enable it
again, and we have everything within the
frame.
And then, right at this moment, what I
would do is go back to our minutes, hit
U, and we're going to start another
movement. So, here I want to place a
keyframe for all one layer for position,
then move forward,
and we're just going to change it to 23.
Just like that. So, now I'm going to
apply the mid graph over here. Let's go
over to the graph editor, and maybe
let's squeeze that peak a little bit
more.
Okay, looks pretty cool. But as you can
notice we got a problem because there
are no more numbers. So for this, I'm
going to disable our optics just for a
second and I'm just going to copy 24,
which is here.
Now I'm going to place it lower, change
it to 25. Okay, let's go even further
with this.
And also as you can notice we got it
very harsh over here on the edges. So
for this I'm going to head over to the
blur and I'm going to uncheck repeat
edge pixels. All right, so let's see
what we got. Pretty good. I'm just going
to push these keyframes back and this
should be good enough. And now to add a
little bit of spice over here whenever
we're changing the minutes, we're also
going to squeeze in the frame. So for
this we need to go back to the minutes.
Then make sure to place the time
indicator on this very keyframe, go back
and I'm going to go to the frame, hit U,
I'm going to create a keyframe for size,
then also we're going to need to create
a keyframe for the button. So I'm going
to hit P, create a keyframe, then we're
going to go back to the minutes,
place the time indicator on this second
keyframe,
go back and we're just going to squeeze
it in in X over here and this is going
to go more towards the middle. So this
is going to look pretty cool but we need
the exact same graph as we used in the
minutes. So what I'm going to do is go
back, select these two, go to the graph
editor and you want to replicate what
we've created here. Since I got the
flow, I'm just going to read the values
and now I can go back and I can paste
that graph by hitting apply. Okay, let's
see.
So it's going to look a little bit
better whenever it's squeezing. And now
at this very moment we're going to start
our timer. So for this we need to have a
button press. So I'm going to place a
keyframe for scale over here, move
forward, then decrease the value, move
forward again and we're going to copy
the first keyframe and paste it here.
Okay, pretty cool. Let's hit F9 and push
it a bit back. Okay, I think this is
going to be good enough. And now
whenever the button press is occurring,
we need to expand our frame. So what I'm
going to do is hit U, and around this
time we're going to start another
movement. So, I'm going to create a
keyframe over here. Then we can hold
control and click on the keyframe, so it
goes back to the original state. Then
I'm going to move forward, and we're
going to squeeze it in Y, and we're
going to expand it in X, just like that.
Okay, but the problem is this is going
very slow. So, for this I'm going to
squeeze it in. Okay, better, maybe even
faster.
Okay, great. So, now at this very
moment, whenever we're starting the
second movement, we're also going to
need to add position keyframe over here.
So, let's go ahead and do that. Then I'm
going to move forward to the second
keyframe, and we're going to push it to
the left.
And accordingly, we're going to need to
set up a keyframe for positioning our
button. So, I'm going to click here,
change it to original position, move
over here, and we're just going to
probably place it somewhere in the
middle on the right. Okay, let me show
you all the keyframes, and we're just
going to play it back, so you can see
what's going on.
All right, so once we have this, we're
also going to need to create another
button. So, what I'm going to do is
select start, then hold control, select
button, and I'm going to hit control C,
control V. Then I'm going to select all
these four layers and hit U. So, here
what you want to do with the button two,
we can actually rename this one to
button one. So, here we only want to
leave these two keyframes. So, I'm going
to delete everything here, then let's
take this, delete, and delete these
three as well. Then once you've done
that, make sure to select our second
button, and we're going to trim it to
this position. All right. We can
actually differentiate it by changing
the color, so this is going to be pink,
and this is going to be orange. So, in
terms of our second button, we're going
to need to change the name to cancel.
Also, in terms of our color, we're going
to pick something grayish,
even dark gray.
All right. Also here, we're going to
change the color to white, or maybe
something darker, then hit okay. And
then we're going to take our cancel
button and place it below our start
button. Okay, so now it's heading
towards the same position, and what we
want to do is have the time indicator on
the second keyframe over here, and we're
going to place it on the left. Maybe
like that. Let's see the full frame.
Okay, looks pretty good to me. And then,
since we're starting the timer, what I
would like to do is change this button
into an orange color. So, I'm going to
make sure this button is selected. Then,
I'm going to have it probably somewhere
here, and I'm going to place a keyframe
for fill color. Then, let's move
forward. I'm going to go to the color,
and let's pick something orange or
brown. Then, hit okay. Together with the
button color change, we're also going to
need to change the text. So, here at the
peak of the movement, we're going to
make sure to select start, and I'm going
to hit control shift D. So, this text is
going to be renamed to pause.
I'm going to select it, and then I'm
going to change the hex code to this.
Then, hit okay. All right, let's see how
it turned out. All right, pretty cool in
my opinion. Then, let me hit U for
everything, and let's see.
Okay, so now the last component would be
changing our minutes over here. So, now
we need to start our actual timer. So,
what I'm going to do is first get rid of
that. So, let's hit U for that layer,
and around this time at the peak of the
movement, we're going to apply opacity
keyframes.
All right, then let's change it to zero.
All right, I think this is going to be
good enough. Then, I'm going to have the
time indicator at the very beginning
over here, and we're going to take round
rectangle tool. Then, let's create a
circle in the middle. Actually, we're
going to have a square, but if you bump
up the roundness, we're going to achieve
a circle.
You can re-center. I'm going to turn off
fill, turn on stroke. Stroke with a 12
should be good, and then we're also
going to change the color to this.
Then, hit okay. Then, we need to make
sure that this is placed on 23. I'm
going to trim this layer to this
position, and I'm going to rename it to
timer circle. All right, the next step
would be creating a position key frame,
so I'm going to hit P,
create a key frame, move forward,
and we're going to have it over here.
Maybe a little bit earlier. All right,
so that's our movement, and I can tell
that it's already a bit too big. So, for
this, I'm going to change the size, and
then also we're going to need to place a
key frame for size, but first uncheck
constrain proportions, create a key
frame, move back,
and here we're going to squeeze it in in
the X, just like that. All right, now
you can really see any bounce because we
don't have an expression. So, I'm going
to go over here, copy the expression,
then alt-click the stopwatch for
position, paste it here, and alt-click
the stopwatch for size.
Again, paste it.
All right, so the next step would be
adding a countdown over here. So, what
I'm going to do is grab the type tool.
Here, I'm going to type in 23, and I'm
going to change the color to white, and
definitely I'm going to bump up the font
size,
and let me just place it right in the
middle. And now we're going to apply a
slider control. So, I'm going to go over
to the effects, add slider control, and
we're going to rename it to minutes.
Make sure to rename it like that. This
is actually quite important, and then
we're going to open up the properties,
go to text, and I'm going to alt-click
the stopwatch for source text. Here, you
want to paste the third expression I
left for you in the comment. So, once
you click the way, make sure this layer
is aligned with this one over here, and
now in the slider you're going to be
able to change how many minutes are on
the countdown. So, for example, if I
change it to 23 over here, we're going
to go down from 23 minutes right from
the beginning of the layer. So,
actually, since we're starting from 23,
I'm going to probably change it over
here to 23.
01.
Then we're going to rename the layer to
countdown, and then at the very moment
whenever everything stops, we want to
parent our countdown to the timer
circle. So, let's go ahead and do that,
and that way it's also going to get that
bouncy movement.
But we could go further with that and
what I'm going to do is head over to the
timers, open it up, go to text and I'm
going to copy the animator one and I'm
going to paste it to the countdown. So
that way it's also going to have that
bouncy movement but the problem is that
it's going from the bottom. So what I'm
going to do is open it up, go over to
the position, I'm going to change Y
value to zero
and I'm going to probably change
position in the X to 50.
So that way it's got bouncy expression
from parent and link and also from the
animator one. So this is looking pretty
awesome so far. I'm just going to make
some adjustments. So first I'm going to
go over to this text, I'm going to
change it to light. Then also to make it
different I'm going to go over to the
timer circle and I'm going to probably
squeeze in
position. Let's see.
Yeah, it looks a little bit better and
then also I'm going to fade it in so
it's not that harsh. So let's set
opacity keyframe, move to the beginning
and change it to zero. Then we can do
the same with the minutes over here. So
I'm just going to add opacity keyframe,
move to the beginning and change it to
zero. Yeah, way better. And now what
we're going to do is head over to the
minutes, turn on the motion blur for
everything, then go back and turn it on
here as well. Now let's see how it
turned out.
All right, so we got a pretty cool
animation and also if you add sound
effects it's going to be way better.
Hopefully you enjoyed this tutorial.
Make sure to check out the video on the
screen and I will see you in the next
one. Cheers, guys.
