[music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the [music]
Brookfield ecosystem's role in creating
sustainable wealth on a global scale.
For our last episode of 2025, we're
taking a look back and turning towards
what's next. In November, over 400
private market investors joined us in
Phoenix, Arizona for our annual investor
conference. Today, we'll share some of
the top insights from our general
session, which featured senior
leadership across our businesses and
reflect on major themes and trends on
[music] the horizon. First, let's begin
with a look at how long-term investment
themes [music] take shape. Here's Connor
Tesy, president of Brookfield Asset
Management.
It was over a decade ago that we
identified data as the fastest growing
global commodity. One that would needed
to be transported, stored and processed
at unprecedented levels. It was towards
the end of the last decade that we saw
that corporates would create a new era
of energy demand that would require any
and all or all of the above type
generation solutions going forward.
At the same time, we identified private
credit as an important pillar to grow
the economy and would become a permanent
fixture in the financial system,
providing capital to drive growth across
businesses and asset classes that we
focused on. So this process of
continuously focusing on what's next and
continuously evolving our business is
ongoing and continuous. And today, what
does that mean? It means new products
like AI infrastructure, one of the
largest capital needs of this generation
where we can build the critical
infrastructure that will drive business
productivity across assets and economies
and we get to invest these significant
sums of capital against long-term
corporate offtakes with the largest and
best institutions and governments around
the world. Similarly, we focus on
private credit, but the sectors of the
private credit market where we see the
best riskadjusted returns and where we
believe we have a competitive advantage
to win. Connor highlights how major
investment themes rarely appear
suddenly. They build over much longer
time horizons. The ability to recognize
those inflection points early can
influence how investors deploy capital
and how new sectors form. Of course, one
of the most salient shifts in nearly
every business and industry recently is
the growth of AI. For Brookfield, that
means an enormous growth opportunity in
the backbone infrastructure needed to
power this technology revolution.
Several speakers pointed to how AI is
extending beyond software and into the
physical world. Stuart Upson, head of
Brookfield's global strategy group,
emphasized how quickly this shift is
accelerating.
What we think is that AI is evolving
right now into agentic AI and that is
kind of the now. That is the thing that
is happening and impacting the world and
the global economy in a big way. As we
think about AI though, we think about it
as a flywheel of technology that is
making the world advance faster and
faster. And it's even more important now
than it ever has been before to stay on
top of these key trends. We think it's
likely that in the fullness of time, the
humanoid or embodied AI robotics could
be an even bigger market than AI in the
software form.
>> With all the momentum behind AI, the
question is everywhere. Is all this
growth actually sustainable? Here's
Sicander Rasheed, global head of AI
infrastructure.
For us over the last 3 to four years in
our power business and our data center
business, we've seen exponential growth
and it has all contracted. So the way we
think about this is we're investing
capital, large scale capital and
building hard infrastructure for some of
the best technology firms in the world,
some of the best sovereign governments
in the world. And that's unprecedented.
I think we can go back and look at all
the previous bubbles including the
dotcom bubble but the offtakers and the
contracted nature of the buildup is what
makes this one different than are there
bubbles around the edges? Yeah. Uh but
fundamentally again this is a long-term
trend and we expect over the long term
it will change the world and without
this infrastructure we'll never get
there. While the technology evolves
quickly, the physical systems behind it,
power, land, networks, and operating
platforms must scale just as rapidly.
These areas of focus shaped much of the
discussion at this year's conference.
Natalie Adam, chief operating officer of
our renewable power and transition
business, summarized the needs from an
energy perspective.
The most important thing for us right
now is providing as much power as we can
quickly and I would say it's not just
providing the scale of power which is
absolutely going to be required over the
next decade but the power market is
becoming more complex and therefore our
customers needs are equally changing and
adapting to that that new power dynamic.
And so one of the things we're seeing is
an increased focus not just on uh not
just on affordability, which has been
the real driver for a lot of renewable
power capacity that's come online over
the last decade, but increasingly it's
affordability mixed with reliability
mixed with the ability to get that power
as fast as possible to the grid.
Nearly 90% of global clean energy demand
for data centers is with hyperscalers
like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and
Meta. At Brookfield, we have seen our
business with these partners double in
less than 2 years and expect electricity
demand forecasts to keep rising. Here's
more context.
>> We signed a 3 gawatt partnership with
Google around our hydro portfolio. We've
executed other framework agreements with
other major providers in both the
technology sector as well as other
technology sectors. And of course, the
$80 billion partnership we've now signed
with the US government to scale the roll
out of nuclear. I think these are all
great signs to show that being able to
combine the different technologies
within our portfolio and to scale that
quickly can be done.
>> Meeting that level of demand isn't just
about generation. It also requires the
transmission systems to move that power
where it's needed most. Here's Gail
Miller, head of strategic investor
engagement for Brookfield's global
client group. We heard that compute
moves faster than power. We can build
compute faster than power. So, can we
actually accomplish these goals knowing
what we know and how fast it's moving?
Those of us that have worked in power
for a long time have never seen these
step increases. 22% increase in data
center demand alone. That doesn't
include electric vehicles, computers,
regular day-to-day activities. And the
other big constraint we have around the
world is this question of the grid. The
grid didn't anticipate this power. And
in fact, we didn't build power for 10
years. We stopped building in 2012
because nobody knew what was about to
come.
>> Gail and Natalie underscored a central
point. Meeting rising global demand for
electricity will require a mix of
technologies, faster development cycles,
and long-term planning across markets.
Next, we'll hear from Sam Pollock, CEO
of Brookfield's infrastructure business,
who has a front row seat to the upgrade
of power transmission infrastructure.
>> The vast majority, 50 of maybe the top
75 utilities in the United States have
increased their capital expenditure
programs for the next 5 years by about
50%. I mean, that's a staggering
increase in their capex. And these are
not companies that are known for making
dramatic changes. So that tells you what
they're faced with.
>> Brookfield CEOs wrapped up the general
session with a wide-ranging conversation
across the private markets. Here's
Brookfield CEO Bruce Flat setting the
scene.
>> I'd say there's really three things that
that encompasses that are really
important. The re-industrialization of
economies to I'm going to say reshuffle,
but move around supply chains in with
what's going on in the world. the
continued enormous buildout of real
assets both new infrastructure that's
coming but everything around the
backbone of the global economy and then
third something that's happened in
finance in the last 10 years which is
the rising influence of private credit
is really important and it's I'd say um
it's one of the largest changes that's
occurred in global finance in a long
time
>> no conversation about real assets is
complete without real estate Bruce and
LOL Baron CEO of our real estate
business shared their perspectives on
the market dynamics in the current
cycle.
>> I've been around the investment business
for real estate in particular of people
that think the world is coming back and
it's amazing and the ones that think
that the world's coming to an end. What
happened? Why is that? And is that true
or am I just behind the times? I think
the reality and the right way to think
about it, the way we think about it is
actually that the decrease in value
happened three or four years ago
already. And it's just a matter of the
time that it takes for that loan to go
into default, the maturity to come, the
foreclosure to happen, the asset sale to
happen. And in fact, that signal is
really positive if you think about it
because it means that real estate prices
have reset. They're much more
attractive. It also means that now you
have people who are selling, buyers who
are buying. So the market has converged
where there's real transaction flow.
That's pretty important. Demand is
pretty healthy across almost every asset
class and supply is severely cretailed.
The probably the most important thing
that's happened in the last four years
is that the cost to build real estate's
gone up probably 40%. And so we're in a
really good place for fundamentals. And
now that the transactions are coming
back, it's probably a great time to be
investing.
>> Next, Craig Noble, CEO of Brookfield's
credit business, talked about the state
of the private credit markets.
>> Private credit markets are still
relatively young. It's really in the
last 5 10 years that the private credit
markets have been growing as an
important part of the market. Banks have
been retreating. Banks in many areas are
no longer in the lending business or at
least not to the same extent that they
have been. And that's been the window
for private credit to come in and offer
very often much more flexible solutions.
Both Connor and Craig touched on the
headlines around the credit markets
today and what the impact is for private
credit investors.
>> While there are certainly segments of
the private credit market that are
seeing more compressed spreads and maybe
some covenant loosening today, we're
focused on real asset and assetbacked
finance that is driven by those same key
global growth trends that drive the
expansion of our equity business. and
where there continues to be a supply
demand imbalance in favor of the capital
provider ensuring attractive spreads and
the appropriate lending protections.
Asset based lending is one of the bigger
growth areas. the banks continue to
retreat requires a highly specialized
skill set to lend into whether it's
aviation, consumer, industrial companies
and that's an area where there's also
because of that specialization the
opportunity for excess returns and
really private credit is all about
getting excess return relative to the
liquid market. There's no doubt these
are risk assets. There have been
defaults. There will be defaults. A few
of them have been more high-profile, but
I would put that in the context of the
credit markets, not the private credit
markets.
>> Wrapping up today's episode is Anuj
Ranjan, CEO of private equity on where
we're seeing opportunity across the
sector and the importance of operational
expertise in value creation.
>> The key word there is industrials. I
mean, we really need to see productivity
gains in all of these companies and I
think the future we're trying to invest
and create future global champions and
before we were doing that in many ways
and technology was always a part of it.
But with AI, humanoid robotics, some of
the advancements we're seeing the future
industrial champions going to be those
that connect the dots. They learn and
they get data off of their machines,
their energy grids, their logistics,
their customers, and they use that to
make realtime decisions and to run their
businesses better. And it's important as
an investor to be able to have scale and
operational capability to actually
implement that in the real industrial
businesses.
[music] As Anous said, success will come
to those who connect the dots. And
that's [music] what we've tried to do
for you all today. Thank you for
listening and stay tuned for more
Brookfield perspectives [music] in the
new year.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
>> Audiation
