Please welcome the panel on the new age
of private equity moderated by business
editor at Axios Dan Primac.
[Music]
I'm here. I guess I sit here. Hello
everybody. Thank you for coming. Uh
thank you for uh ignoring the other
sessions and joining us here today. Uh
you made a wonderful wonderful choice.
Uh and I want to thank all my panelists
up here to talk about the new age of
private equity which at the moment seems
a little bit like the old age of private
equity. Uh so I just want to let
everybody very briefly introduce
yourselves by which I mean your name,
where you work and uh I don't know your
first job. Eric
uh Eric Wilmas. I work at GIC where I
serve as our president of the Americas
and run our private equity business in
the region. My first job was uh at
Morgan Stanley working uh in their
capital partners. But wait, that was
your first first job? My first job was
working at Stark Packaging, which is a
food manufacturing company in my
hometown. It was the job that paid $7 an
hour. So that was the the highest paid
wage I could find in town.
I'm Pete Stavros, co-head of Global
Private Equity. My first job was doing
laundry at a tennis club in town. My
first real job though was working at the
old Solomon brothers in the mergers
department.
Julia Carr from Sinben. Um first real
job was BCG and first really early job
was um I was an intern at Sherman and
Sterling in college back when I thought
that I wanted to be a lawyer.
Uh David Gross uh co-managing partner
Bank Capital. uh first uh job was
working in a hardware store and then I
moved on for my worst real job working
in uh Japan for uh NEC Corporation.
Pier Fransen, deputy managing partner,
EQT. Um first uh job was actually
stringing tennis rackets at my tennis
club. So similar to you Pete and uh uh
and uh and then after business school I
started at Morgan Stanley. Spent a
couple of years there before joining ET.
So, let's talk. It's interesting. Um,
three months ago, uh, at the World
Economic Forum, I I remember speaking to
head senior investment banker who was
talking a lot about animal spirits in
the dealmaking market at the time,
right? We were talking the end of
January. It was the week of Trump's
inauguration. And uh, then he mentioned
to me, he said, "But we won't really
know anything until Milkin. That's when
we can like actually put all this to the
test and see if we're right about all
the stuff we're talking about." Uh,
Pete, let me ask you, I guess, what did
everybody in January get wrong?
Well, I guess maybe the premise I
disagree with a little bit. I don't
think things are that bad. Things are
still happening. Credit spreads are up a
little bit. Base rates are flat. The
stock market's up and down, but overall
the market's kind of flat. And things
are happening. You know, we've deployed
11 billion uh across US, Europe, and
Asia through April, which is up
meaningfully actually versus last year.
Now, it it was harder to find these
deals. They were overwhelmingly 80% of
them were carveouts and take private.
So, you can't just rely on sponsor flow.
But if you're, you know, if you're
proactive and you've got the right
sourcing engine, you can still get stuff
done. Look, my
my hope, my wish for our industry is we
would get away from reacting so strongly
to the news of the day or predicting
where the markets are going. That's
what's got us in this mess. You know, if
you look at what's happened in the last
5 years, 2021 and 2022, GP's massively
overdeployed, massively when when the
10-year in the US was 1% and multiples
in the private markets were way higher.
And that's got all sorts of implications
for the quality of those returns and uh
LP capacity to put money up. So now what
we've got is LPS are overexposed to bad
vintages and now many of them are
cutting back on what will probably
better vintages. We've got sponsors
trying to time the exit market saying
well now is not the perfect time so I'm
not going to sell. And you know that we
need to get out of this mode. And I I
just wish both GPS and LPs we would get
in a consistent pattern of evenly
deploying our funds over and our capital
over time and evenly returning capital
over time because this boom bus cycle is
creating all sorts of problems. I Julia,
okay, I I get this up here. I don't even
know. I didn't do the math of how much
AUM you all represent total.
What Pete says makes sense, but it's not
what GPS do in practice.
Why not? if if what he says makes sense,
if you agree with it, why do we not see
that in practice? Well, I think um you
know there's there's part of it is just
there's all the outside info coming at
you, right? About valuations, about peer
activity. We're quite a competitive
industry in terms of looking comparing
ourselves against each other all the
time, right? And so fear of, you know,
looking like you miss the boat. um you
know a bit of group think I think tends
to happen sometimes with with with with
our industry but but also you know the
public markets are cyclical right and so
you can't dig your head in the sand and
say hey I'm going to you know what I'm
just going to I've got great assets here
I'm just I can sell them when I want to
sell them unfortunately the world
doesn't work like that so while that
sounds I love your scenario and I wish
it would make all of our jobs
collectively much easier there are a lot
of outside factors outside of our
control that make that proposition, you
know, more challenging. Um, so I think,
you know, I think it's it's quite hard
in practice to to achieve that despite
all of us being and I think all of our
collective firms being highly
analytical, disciplined, focused on
generating great returns.
There there a bunch of other outside
factors.
Pete said to me that I maybe overstated
the the situation that from the outside
looking in, and I'm not sitting in all
of your boards in your investment
committees, but from the outside looking
in, it felt like there was all these
processes that were going on in January
and February and March. And then, you
know, quote, Liberation Day hit and and
everything seemed to, if not stop,
certainly slow way down. Everyone wanted
to take a couple big deep breaths. The
IPO market obviously stopped completely.
Am I overstating that? When you when you
think David or anybody really if when
you think of the processes that were
very active whether on the buy side or
if you were exiting back in March am I
overstating to say that things seem to
take a take a legitimate pause
they took a pause but it it was a pause
measured in you know four to five weeks
and it's it's the same pause that I
think the world took with a pretty
unexpected disruptive set of policies
but you already see it starting to
normalize I think Peter mentioned in the
capital market. I think there were 10
syndicated loan deals that were priced
for LBOs just in the last 10 days where
it was pretty much shut off. I think the
private credit market was financing
LBOS's through the whole period. And
you're starting to see sellers
selectively take deals that were delayed
and think about putting them back in the
market. It'll be a bit slower to come
back because there's still, I'd say,
tremendous uncertainty, but I don't
think it's, you know, I don't think it's
shut off at all. I think it's still on a
recovery path from a couple of you know
pretty pretty low years. What what I
would also add to to uh to to this is
that there's some difference also across
regions actually. So uh we saw a
particular slowdown in deal activity in
in the US and North America. Um but uh
in in Europe and Asia, I mean if you if
you look looking at the the the public
stock markets actually during that that
time um the volatility was lower and
many were still up year to date compared
to where where the US stock indices
were. So u uh some regional differences
as well. Yeah, I mean just to echo that
I mean we saw the same in our business.
I mean in Europe actually things started
very very slow in January February and
then they really accelerated. So I think
just in terms of people deciding when to
pull the trigger to sell u so I think it
is quite regionpecific
um the US for sure I think just with all
of the you know news and and the
uncertainty there was a bit of a pause
Eric I'm curious for you do you feel
that the markets back the private equity
market back in January February even
maybe going back to November December
did they kind of memoryhole Trump 1.0
and kind of the chaos of Trump 1.0
Well, I think there are a couple things
that happened. I think the business
community was very enthusiastic when
Trump was elected. I think there was an
expectation that there would be some
support for the economy that in business
friendliness that maybe didn't exist
previously. Um, I think there was an
idea that there would be increased
transaction flow and increased IPO
activity coming into this year. To your
point, there was some of this in the
beginning of the year and definitely
mathematically it slowed down. I think
philosophically, and I think I've heard
it from some of my uh fellow panelists
here, we're long-term investors. We've
been investors in the US for 40 years.
We opened our first office here 40 years
ago, our second office here 39 years
ago. Um and so we've seen so many
cycles. So you've seen the com bust,
you've seen uh September 11th, you've
seen the GFC. Each one of these times if
you were to say we're going to pull back
from the US because of this thing that
we just saw, that would have been a
mistake. And so our perspective has
continually been to increase our
exposure. Even in the last 5 years,
we've increased our exposure here from
roughly 35 to 40% of the overall
portfolio. And so I think that's
something that we're committed to long
term. Now we're think slower this month.
Yes. But practically speaking, do we
think this market, you know, has some
particular flaw or something that you
might turn away from? No. So I think
there's there's a headline here, but I
think the longer term trends remain
quite strong. C can I ask the to follow
up on that? I mean the the examples you
brought up, you brought up the do crash,
you brought up the GFC. Are you putting
this in those categories? Well, no,
that's the irony. I mean, this is
nothing like that. So, this is a little
blip that we can talk about because it's
exciting this month, but no, it doesn't
compare to those. Uh, yeah, I think that
this is not that is not that type of
cycle. But the the cycle that began in
2021 postcoid is maybe the fourth big
super cycle that I think the industry
has experienced, right? you had peak
velocity at 23x the prior year's levels
and then it went down and now we're in
this period where buyers and sellers are
dislocated and kind of trying to find
the right moment and so we are in a
cycle right now and I think a lot of the
questions that you know we all have
about the normalized level of activity
distributions which I'm sure we'll talk
about we're still in this kind of low
and recovering point of a of a pretty
significant cycle for sure I I think the
point being that um um there is some
cyclicality to uh private rivate equity
as as as an asset class and what what
Pete also was talking about you you just
want to take a long-term perspective to
everything that you do right you have
your strategy in our case aesthetic
investment approach uh we we continue to
invest in our local presence in
particular across Asia and and and
Europe and then we use these type of uh
uh periods of uncertainty to also unlock
uh opportunities and create really
attractive investment opportunities and
that's been this the the name every time
that we've uh seen downturns in in in
the private equity market. And one other
thing that's long-term right now though
is this and and David, you kind of
brought started to bring this up is this
distribution drought, right? We we have
seen re basically record low
distributions from private equity, true
from venture capital as well for years
now. And I I feel I have sat on this
stage or other stages in this hotel for
three straight years and I've heard
about this is the year IPOs are coming
back. This is the year that we're going
to start selling all not all but lots of
our portfolio companies. this is the
year and then it always become so you
hear that in May and it's well no it's
going to be in the second half of the
year no no it's going to be in the first
half of next year and and the can keeps
getting kicked I guess big picture
question because I'm hearing this from
LPS a lot Pete I'll ask you I guess is
the private equity model and I you know
what to make everyone happy here I know
all of your firms are long-term and have
good returns so you're all excluded from
this is the private equity model XU5
broken
uh no so I think there are a couple ways
to think about it. What we're talking
about here is this cyclical period and
there is no doubt that uh given the
enthusiasm in 2122 there was a bit of an
overhang in the industry and I think
we're still working through that. I
think the bigger question is what is the
secular long-term impact and benefit for
the industry and there are a couple
things and some of these are very
obvious. It clear that much of the
return in the industry over a long
period of time was made from buying
assets relatively cheaply and selling
them at higher prices. Correlated with
that was a period when rates were coming
down so you could finance them quite
cheaply. These are two huge drivers for
returns. People would have different
views but in general I think the
expectations we're looking at higher
rates than we've seen for the last
little bit and probably going to persist
at higher levels given inflation. And so
you've got two other levers to drive
returns. You got to buy great companies.
Hopefully they're compounders that you
can own for a while. And you've got to
have a reason that your company has a
plan to make some some benefit in that
business. And so I think if you can do
those two things, you should have a
premium return over public markets in
particular. Um if we look at our
portfolio, if we doubleclick on the
underlying portfolio companies or
thousands of them, you'll see these
companies on average have higher growth
rates, higher margins, higher return on
invested capital than comparable
businesses that are trading at
comparable prices in the public market.
These guys have all spent a long time
trying to buy the best businesses. And
so that's generally happened. It's a
better pool of assets. And so that gives
you a bit of an advantage. If it's a if
it's a better pool of assets, why have
exits slowed so much? You when you've
got a good asset, that seems to be a
thing that people would want to buy from
you. Well, let's come back to that. The
second piece of this is the is the value
ad. And so this idea that you control a
business and it's existential for any of
us, even GIC as an LP, to be able to add
value to the companies that you're
invested in, you can't drive the returns
if you're not able to do that as well.
So you need those two things to justify
the model. Um in terms of exits, I think
it goes back to the the point made
previously. Folks bought things at
really high prices, including us in 21.
And so there's a lot of waiting for
those companies to continue to grow.
They're growing well, but continue to
grow into those valuations. Can I
disagree with the premise a bit? Yeah.
So the there's a lot of press about
distributions being way off and that's
just not what the data says. So what's
what matters to LPs is net
contributions. So what are they what are
their GPS calling in terms of capital
and what are they receiving back? If you
look at 2019 to 2024
deployment grew on a if you did
pointtooint 5% a year 5% Kager
monetizations grew 5% a year over that
same period of time. So it's not like
monetizations just you and I are
definitely looking at different numbers
because I'm seeing these DPI numbers
that are you know but what does DPI take
into account? How much capital's been
deployed? So that's the problem. You
know, Eric mentioned it, we're all
talking about it. It's not that people
just suddenly can't sell things. It's
that in those 18 in that 18-month
period, we literally went from $600
billion of annual deployment to a
trillion3 and the craziness stayed in
the first half of 2022. So, I do think
it's this net problem, which it gets
back to we've just got to get our
industry out of this massive
procyclicality. And then the question
about is private equity broken. It's
kind of like Eric was saying, relative
to what? I mean public markets, 70% of
public market trading is automated
passive stuff. There's no fun and it's
done very well over the last couple
years. Not as well as private equity.
Private equities outperformed. You could
pick any time period. Private equity has
outperformed the public markets. And
that's going to continue to happen. When
you think about what Eric's saying, we
construct our own portfolios. We pick
our management teams. We drive value
creation. We have uh alignment
mechanisms. We've got better governance.
There's just no reason this is going to
stop. The idea that private equity is
broken, I think, is nonsense. Well, one
more thing. Again, I think we've been
through these type of periods in the
past as well, right? Periods of more
challenging exit markets, below average
distribution rates. Uh, as an industry,
we're we're probably in in that type of
phase right now. Um, but, uh, you know,
this will self-correct because LPS will
put pressure on GPS to increase their
DPIs. I mean, LP, but LPs have been
asking for that for years. Now granted,
fundraising has slowed down, but LPs I
mean LPs complain a lot. They complain
to people like me a lot. They might even
complain to people like you a lot, but
then ultimately they don't do a hell of
a lot about it. Um, in part because
they're not nearly as well paid or and
they're terribly organized. Well, well,
I think it's as simple as if you don't
have sufficiently strong DPIs in the
current market moment, you're not going
to have successful fundraisers, right?
Um, so I mean, managing cash flows on
behalf of investors is actually a core
capability of any GP. They do rotate
GPS though, right? So I think some of
the dissonance between the conversation
of whether it was overheated and there's
not enough liquidity and or whether
we're okay has to do with the dispersion
in the industry. So if you take top
quartile and second quartile returns
over a long period of time, they've
actually been increasing and they're
very very strong at absolute levels. If
you take median returns for private
equity, they've been kind of if you
squint flattish but maybe coming down in
the recent vintages, which means the
bottom is in real is in real trouble.
And so I don't I we can't deny that
there was excessive exuberance in the
2122 period. There was a lot of tech
deals done at very high prices. I think
we lost the as an overall industry a bit
of an anchor on price per unit of growth
and portfolio construction, but very
disperate results and you're going to
see more of that. So I think through
this private equity won't see its
demise, but I think there'll be some
rotation of of who the key players are
and who the players that are that are
not going to make it to the other side.
And I think LPs in doing their job in in
terms of manager selection, they'll
they'll fire some managers.
Uh is there when you talk about find
some new managers, I I'm curious if
anyone's interested. you're seeing some
of these growth equity, you know, a lot
of private equity firms move downstream
over the years and got into growth
equity, for example, particularly in
some of the big tech names, etc. You've
seen some of those growth equity firms
or venture capital firms start to move
upstream. Do you think we're going to
start to see some of those those venture
names, the Andreas of the world,
Sequoas, etc., who are raising, you
know, funds that rival the size of your
funds, if not larger, start to actually
play in private equity. I mean it's a
it's a pretty different style of
investing in terms of the skill set.
private equity went downream not down to
I mean if it if private equity firms
that went down to venture say you know
or early growth equity had totally
different teams doing that right and
still those those f those funds pald in
size to the size and scale of the large
scale private equity so I question that
in terms of I think it you know um it's
about picking an idea picking a TAM
versus picking a strategy and an
investment thesis and a set actions and
value creation actions that's going to
drive the kind of result that you want
to see in large scale private equity
which is quite different from huge TAM
potentially you know potentially
strongest technology we're going to bet
on that it's quite different
is there but on that topic I I think
what what we've been seeing is that uh
some of those more early stage focused
funds that they've increasingly also
been investing into their you know
active ownership capabilities right so
that they can also actively drive more
value creation because that ultimately
in particular in this environment that's
what LPs are looking for. But so is that
speak to this idea though that some of
these firms are going to come up and
start to challenge you from from the
coming from the bottom. Well, they they
they will try, but uh you know, I think
it's a pretty pretty hard proposition
because of course, you know, many of us
in the P business, we've been uh yeah,
working and focusing on active ownership
strategies, investing into our
capabilities, our value creation
toolboxes, in-house teams and so forth.
This takes a long time to build up. Is
there Pete you talked about the thing
you started this this idea that you know
we just kind we the industry kind of has
to work through a lot of that 2020 2021
deal flow or deals that got done at high
valuations.
Do you think does the industry have an
appetite to just start cutting bait with
some of these there's there's what you
said Eric which is well we're just going
to wait for them to grow into these
valuations. In some cases the valuations
just might have been absurd and they're
not even if they're strong businesses
they're just not going to grow into
those valuations. it what what do you do
with these companies that that are
sitting there that are taking your time
that that are you know sitting there
keeping capital what do you do with
these things what does the industry do
with that cohort yeah I can I can give
you our philosophy look we invested in
21 and 22 as well it's not like we we we
have a a view that we're never going to
lean in and we're never going to lean
out because we don't know so it's not
like we don't have exposure our mindset
just like we want to linear linearly
deploy our funds say 20% a year when
we've accomplished lished 80% of what we
came to do with the business, we exit.
We just do. And if that means it was a
one and a halfx deal because we totally
mistimed it, well, that's that's what it
is. Um, but this idea of we're going to
hold longer and time the market, maybe
if you're, you know, a tiny GP and your
only goal in life is to maximize the
dollar carry economics and you don't
care about IRR, maybe you do that. But
for us, you know, we're trying to build
a business that lasts forever. So we we
uh as I say linear pacing on the way in
and even a deployment on the way out. I
do want to say at some point this is all
going to create great opportunity for
people who have capital. The ratio of
dry powder in the United States relative
to assets in the ground in private
equity has never been as low as it is
right now. It's 40 cents on the dollar.
So for every dollar of of assets in the
ground, we've got 40 cents of dry powder
to take it out. all these assets are
going to find have to find new homes and
there just aren't going to be that many
homes to be had and I think it's going
to be a very interesting time to buy. I
might slightly disagree actually what
Pete just said in terms of I I very much
agree we agree with the discipline in
terms of uh uh you know driving exits
and managing cash flows. Um, but what
we're actually trying to to to do when
it comes to portfolio management is
trying to find those one or two winners
in a fund and and trying to stay
invested for longer in those because if
we look at our data historically, they
can have an outsized impact on overall
fund return if you get it right. Right.
Um, and there I I I I agree on the point
on trying to manage risk right. can also
do that with new concepts such as
private IPOs where where you diversify
the shareholder base and offer some
liquidity to existing shareholders while
staying invested for longer in those
type of businesses. Yeah. Look, if we're
bullish on a deal, 80% of what we think
we can get done with it might mean we
hold it 12 years. It's not saying five
years and we're out. It's 80% of what we
think we can do with it. Got it. Uh
Eric, can I go back to to something when
you talk about kind of economic
macroeconomic challenges? Uh there seems
to be this weird dichotomy lately where
you've got lots and lots of people
particularly on Wall Street analysts
predicting whether it be severe or not
some sort of economic downturn recession
uh for the rest of the year yet you know
I I'm hearing all of you sound fairly
bullish on on buying companies. How do I
kind of square the circle of the economy
and globally? The the global economy has
in the US particularly is going to have
some real challenges over the next
couple years, but this moment is when we
should be buying while the valuations
are still high.
So the a couple points um obviously the
GDP data was weak in the first quarter.
I think there are still questions around
the data and so we'll see where that
gets revised ultimately. Um, if we look
at our underlying portfolio companies,
the performance continues to be quite
strong. So, if I look at my irr on the
portfolio for the last couple years,
they're not as good as I'd like them to
be. It's this valuation issue. But if I
look at the performance of the
companies, the number of our companies
hitting their plans is quite high. Um,
if we go talk to our CEOs, so quarterly
we solicit feedback from a hundred of
our CEOs. What's going on? How are you
feeling about your business? Are things
getting better or worse? What's going on
with employment capex, etc.? If you talk
to the CEOs, 65% of them think there's
going to be a recession in the next
year. So to your point, they have that
dire feeling. On the flip side, it's a
little bit like legon, like everybody's
above average. 80% of them believe their
business is in good shape and they feel
quite confident about it. There's a
reason for that though, and it's not
just um their own overconfidence bias.
It's the portfolio that we own is
largely insulated from a lot of the
volatility that we see today. It's heavy
tech. It's heavy services. It's heavy
healthcare. And so we're underweight
some of the places and we do have
companies that feel this that I think
are going to be quite exposed if we
don't come to a more rationalized tariff
regime here over the course of the next
couple. You guys asked, should there be
do you have and and I don't think most
people do, but it happened today. So I'm
curious. uh when I was on the plane here
today the the Trump kind of and he
walked it back but talking about tariffs
on on foreign main movies which is
basically a tariff on IP not not on
physical product but on IP arguably on
services. Should there be any unease in
private when you talk about those things
that you feel are kind of defensive when
it comes to tariffs that those things
might actually be open to some sort of
tariff regime even though no one quite
knows how it might work. I I think as as
we talked about it before we came in the
tagline for this year should really be
you know uncertainty is the new
certainty. So I don't know the answer to
that question. Um what we try to do is
prepare and not predict when it comes to
thinking about the portfolio
construction. Um what I will say just
looking at physical goods we have a big
infrastructure business as well and thus
far you know transport's been good. Our
port activity has been quite strong, but
if you're looking at forward booking,
especially in West Coast ports, it's
down dramatically starting uh this
month, frankly. Yeah. And so I think
there is a question how that's going to
hit the economy, how long that's going
to last for, and then how that it's
going to get mitigated. Uh this this
session is about private equity, but
with the exception, Julie, of your firm,
Sinben, uh none of you run a pure or
work at a pure private equity firm
anymore. Uh Dave when I think of Bane I
mean Bane started as a essentially a
venture capital firm that became an LBO
firm which is what it was for decades
and you now have all these other asset
classes you are in both in terms of
sector but also in terms of product does
it make can you talk to me a little bit
about that why is Bane why was private
equity not enough given the returns
everyone's talking about why was private
equity not enough to do yeah so on the
history you know we got into the other
class other asset classes back in 9798
so we started a debt business and a
public equity business. And back then, I
think it was actually a view that you
could get an information advantage. You
know, you'd look at a private equity
deal, but it might not be investable.
So, why don't we go buy the debt? And
then you're starting to accumulate
vertical knowledge across those areas,
and you get some informationational
leverage. It also actually was an
interesting organic talent avenue for
our team members who wanted to do
something and start entrepreneurally and
we could ensure that if we were starting
a new business it was going to
strengthen the core business we had and
so this was kind of an interesting you
know talent and information strategy.
Now with the with deals becoming so
complex, crossvertical opportunities,
we're global firm. We find that the most
interesting and defensible deals come at
kind of the intersection of some of
these these points across asset classes.
So, you know, a consumer and a and a
real estate deal. So, you're looking at
a consumer business which might be under
pressure, but might have really
interesting, you know, real estate
supporting that. You need to have
capabilities, deep capabilities on both
sides of those asset classes. Certainly
technology marrying the early stage with
the later stage whether that's life
sciences and and big pharma carving out
interesting new molecules that a big
pharmaceutical company might have but
how do you stand that up as a as a
startup company and certainly in
technology where you want to have this
view of early stage technology and how
that can disrupt or not disrupt
something what we might be investing in
uh down the stream. So all this I think
there's a lot of interesting information
advantages, synergies, sourcing benefits
that you can get if you can get all
these kind of businesses working, you
know, working together. Somebody talk to
me about the credit piece of this which
obviously become a bigger and bigger
part of quote unquote private equity
firms. Uh Pete, you guys obviously have
a big credit business. What's the reason
for why private equity firms should be
in credit and should be in it big? And
then Julie, I'm gonna ask you the
opposite because you guys aren't. I
think David covered it well. I mean, we
think and we've got so many examples. We
we've got deals that have been sourced
by our structured equity group, by our
credit folks into private equity. So,
it's been a a funnel augmentation
uh effort. I think you got to have the
right culture to make this work. So, you
can't operate in silos. It it really it
sounds so easy to execute on this is
super difficult. It comes down to the
types of people you hire, how you
evaluate them, how you decide whether or
not to promote them, how you compensate
them. And if you don't really live that
type of culture every day, then there is
no synergy across asset classes and
there's no reason to do it. Um, and at
this point, our filter is really whether
or not we see synergy. We turn down lots
of new business ideas that that bubble
up internally. And like take our
mid-market business. Why would a firm
that's got we have $650 billion of
assets, more than $200 billion of
private equity assets, why have a $4 and
half billion dollar middle market fund?
Who cares? And the only reason we did it
is because we genuinely believe it makes
our overall private equity platform
stronger.
Julia, the what's the counter to all of
this? Yeah. Well, I've I've I've lived
in in both. I was at a large, you know,
diversified and we remember your prior
answer, so the prior answer has been
written down. Uh fair. Uh um no and uh I
think the the beauty of a sort of the
purity and singularity of focus on one
asset class and sort of the focus on any
individual investment decision and
making the right decision for that
investment rather than oh hey we're
fundraising for this other fund over
here and we you know well we don't
really want to do that in that sector or
hey you know we're also totally private
and and owned uh by the partners who are
at the firm. So we don't we're not
worried about oh hey what are public
market investors going to think about
that or this and it just um it really
drives a focus and a prioritization
ultimately on that investment decision
and whether or not you know we can
generate the kind of returns that we
want to make for our investors on that
individual investment and um I find it
leads to great investment decision-m and
great outcomes for our investors um and
you know so clearly I'm I'm biased to
you know to to that model but I but I
But I see it in action. I' I've also
lived um and there you know there's
scale and other some other benefits from
you know being diversified. So I'm not
trying to take away from that. But I
think there is certainly a place um for
singularly focused asset managers you
know in large scale private equity who
are focused on consistently generating
um you know top top returns in that
asset class. You you mentioned the the
the partners owning the firm.
Is there a pra a day-to-day difference
the idea working at a privately held
private equity firm as opposed to a
publicly held asset manager? Look, I
think it drives certainly the culture uh
and the collaborative sort of low ego
sort of focus on we're all in it
together in in in our one global fund.
Um and we're organized by global sector
teams and we go after around the you
know around US Europe together themes in
a sector and help each other because
we're all completely perfectly aligned.
Uh there's there's there's real merit to
that and it drives behavior. It drives
the way we come across when we're
pitching ourselves, you know, to
founders, which we do a lot of. um that
we do what we say, you know, we're going
to do and that we um you know, we we
work together very collaboratively and
that we're going to be great stewards
for their businesses. Uh Eric, can I
just ask you um curious on on one of the
obviously sectors, did I mention the
private credit? There's lots of talk
about deregul more deregulation in the
US with the financial sector. The
private credit market obviously has
taken off over the past several years.
If there is significant deregulation of
Wall Street, does that put, from your
perspective, does that make private
credit less attractive? Does that put
pressure on these private credit funds
that keep raising? Well, I guess maybe
answer a broader question here. Um, so
GIC is, I think folks know, is
effectively the endowment for a country
for Singapore. Um, so our job is to help
pay for bridges and schools and health
care and support the the econ economic
development of the country as well as
have capital that's ready in times of
crisis. So think of co if you need a
fiscal stimulus. That's what that's what
the pool of capital's for. And so as we
think about this this question of
diversified asset managers,
we're not doing it because there's any
particular need to grow our pool of
assets. It is what it is. But we are
looking for a couple of the free lunches
in investing. So one is clearly
diversification. And so we believe that
being internationally diversified as
well as being diversified across the
various products that we're talking
about is of a lot of value to us. And so
if we think about private credit for
example, this is an asset class that's
developed a lot in the last 10 years. I
think it's created a great new tool for
corporations especially to use to fund
their growth that they didn't have
before if they could only access a bank
or a public debt market. And so I think
it's allowed companies to be more
dynamic in their growth and development.
I can't prognosticate what change in
regulation would lead to, but I do know
in general it's been good for the US
economy and I do think for for a
portfolio like ours, it adds another
kind of risk that we think has
attractive reward that's been a good
part of that overall diversification
we're talking about. Uh per the um
speaking of uh diversification and
multiple asset classes, there was a
report today that you guys are in talks
or considering buying Arctose. True. Um
so uh I mean we we we constantly look at
our platform and and how we can continue
to build it and and the gaps that we can
fill in it right and uh uh we
fundamentally also continue to believe
that that this industry will continue to
uh uh consolidate. Um so we're
constantly talking to to to market
participants, right? And we've also
publicly said that we want to grow our
solutions business. Um, so we've also
had discussions with uh the Arctus team
with Ian and and Doc about potential
partnership uh uh opportunities. Um um
interestingly they are of course strong
in sports, they're strong in the US. We
have a strong presence across Asia and
and Europe. So we've also been comparing
notes on a couple of uh investment
opportunities. Uh uh but yeah, there's
there's no no partnership uh uh
announcement or anything like that
imminent. Nothing a minute. Nothing in a
minute. Uh let me totally change subject
here a little bit and talk about AI in
two different ways. Actually, maybe
three different ways. And first I'm
curious per for you, what how are you
actually applying it inside of EQT?
So uh I mean
AI for us is is you know existential,
right? I mean we we we we didn't wake up
two years ago and and and decided that
this was something we wanted to focus
on. We've been working on it for 10
years or so. We have our own in-house AI
digital team called Motherbrain. It's a
team of 50 plus uh data scientists and
and digital experts. They're working
handinhand with the deal teams when it
comes to assessing investment
opportunities. They're also helping us
uh drive AI literacy and AI adoption
across the uh EQ platform. So, yep. I
mean, in practice, we're we're applying
it in our investment processes. Uh we're
giving AI a voice in our IC discussions.
Uh we're applying it in our portfolio
review uh processes. Um making sure that
we scrape all the relevant databases to
uh to to to get to the right fact-based
outcomes and discussions in those
portfolio review processes. uh and then
we're trying to underwrite you know
repeatable AI specific use cases for the
the the the subsectors that we target.
over the years you've been building
mother brain and working with it are
there invest uh investor tasks and do
you need fewer investors of the humans
that you're working hand in hand are
there things five years ago yeah I think
definitely there's an opportunity to
drive more productivity inhouse also um
but it's not black and white um so what
we're trying to do also um yeah really
to to to educate the entire
investment professional team on the use
of AI, how how we best apply it. Um and
uh yeah, to drive AI literacy that way
and and and productivity. Uh you're
nodding your head. There's always going
to be a element. You hope so. Uh the
Yeah. So, for example, like General
Atlantic has an has an AI now in its
investment committee. It can't vote, but
it is there. And apparently, if it
disagrees with the other people around
the IC, they all look at each other like
this might know something we don't know.
I at what point do you is there a point
that you could see at Bane that that AI
if not has a vote has a much bigger say
in what you guys do or don't do? I'd
like to be replaced if possible because
uh focused on some other things. I I'm
I'm curious to how you guys do it
because this is the one that we've still
found to be a bit elusive. We've done a
lot to try to synthesize
um all of the knowledge and content and
work we've done internal external to
have that more at the fingertips of
folks. But moving that into a a model
that can apply that type of nuance
judgment, you know, I think is still
something we at least we've not been
able to figure out how to how to make
that work. The productivity stuff is
real. So we've taken our deal process
which is very cumbersome. It's very data
intensive. It's very people intensive
and broken it down into tasks and
identified which ones could be improved
by AI. And there's significant
significant productivity efficiency
benefits that that we're seeing. I don't
think this is not really about reducing
our team. so much maybe we'll be able to
scale the team you know a little bit
less but it's more about getting the
team focused on much more value added
activities which I would say would be
sourcing and relationship building and
that final judgment two things that I
think will ultimately be extremely
difficult for AI to to replicate. So
those are those are big areas. I think
for us the single biggest you know
transformational area for for AI that
we're really excited is just is in value
addition value creation. We've been very
very focused and we got a huge value
way. What does that mean? well with our
portfolio companies. So literally the
next leg of how we're adding value to
companies and this is where in the last
3 four years there were there was a lot
of experimenting about what could work
and now we're seeing some you know
massive massive gains you know and so in
the more uh data oriented processdriven
businesses take insurance claims you
know 80 90% personnel reductions entire
functions uh that are no longer
necessary changing cost structures by
not a couple hundred basis points, but a
thousand basis points, 1500 transforming
real business models. And then that
becomes an incredibly powerful
underwriting tool because you'll say,
"Okay, let's go look for actually
brickandmortar companies." It's kind of
like when an e-commerce started, people
wanted to invest in e-commerce
companies. They were highly valued. The
next wave was to take e-commerce
capabilities into sleepier non- tech
businesses and transform those
businesses. I think we're at that stage
now which is to take that apply it to
change a cost structure of a business
and that in and of itself becomes an
investment. That's that's for us 90% of
where we're trying to focus AI right
now. It's interesting for us. We see not
just the, you know, sort of cost
improvement side of the equation, but
just as much also the revenue side and
AI enhancement through that. And, you
know, at some of our tech companies in
particular, software companies, we've
actually invested um, you know, heavily
in AI powered product development that
has been hugely successful. One of our
companies, Archer, for example, is a
regulatory compliance software business
and actually through combination of
organic development and a small
acquisition, a tool that constantly is
trolling, figuring out what are all the
new regulations that have just been
implemented and then pushing that out to
all of the client base and saying real
time, oop, here's, you know, here you
have an issue, here you have an issue,
so they can avoid very significant
penalties. So I think um you know
certainly AI can be a huge lever and a
repeatable lever that I think
collectively we can get conviction
behind hey we've done this in these x
number of other companies we can do it
here with these individual processes
from a cost perspective and improve
margins but equally we can really
enhance the revenue line uh which you
know ultimately hopefully that acrru to
our benefit for a very long time as that
you know with that flywheel and I think
that's um you know just as as we think
about impact of AI and the opportunity
for us as investors who have the benefit
of a long time horizon for investment.
We we we see real benefit there. I
wonder Pete when you think about if not
your portfolio Eric when you think of
those companies that you're talking
about underlying it seems that a lot of
companies that were invested in say 19
or 20 or 21 some of them particularly
maybe on the enterprise software side
have been disrupted and some of them
have have have you know have applied AI
well and have and have kind of have been
able to kind of ski that slope and
others have gotten absolutely kind of
wiped out by the avalanche is that a
risk that private equity kind of didn't
realize but walked into in other words
by holding companies longer they became
more susceptible to being disrupted by a
brand new technology and then private
equity firms are just kind of holding
the bag on them.
I can start I agree with Perr. This is
not something people woke up to a
handful of years ago. I think people
have f been focused on this both as a
risk and an opportunity for some time on
the new investment side. There's a whole
spectrum of of risks here. You know, you
can have a live entertainment business
that's got no real disruption risk and
it's just a productivity tool. AI is or
you could have a content creation
company that really could get get hurt
if you're not uh if you're not careful.
So that's kind of the defensive side of
it and the offensive side. I think you
guys have given a lot of good examples.
Outbound marketing, um software
development, coding, there's tons of
opportunity. Uh I think it's still a
little bit early. I think in five years
time we'll have lots of these stories
that David was talking about of 1500
basis points of margin uplift. I think
those are the true dramatic
transformations driven by AI so far are
pretty rare. I think we've probably all
gotten pitched H&R Block a thousand
times by now. Um, but it's coming. I
right now I'd say it's a it's a
defensively you better be careful what
you're buying and then offensively it's
productivity cost out. I think some
revenue growth outbound marketing things
like that. And I I would actually uh you
know to to your challenge or question I'
I'd flip it around and I' I' I' I'd see
the opportunity uh I mean in particular
in some of the scale businesses that
that we have we see a real opportunity
to stay invested for longer in those
companies uh because of AI. You
mentioned software as an opportunity. We
just a couple of weeks ago uh announced
a private IPO in a business called IFS
uh yeah 15 billion euro transaction. We
raised 56 billion euros um yeah to to
provide liquidity to existing investors
including our own funds. Um and and you
know the the the the idea behind that
transaction is that we're putting AI
even more at the core of the software
business and that way we'll be able to
create even more uh value creation and
returns by staying invested for longer.
Uh David, you said you wouldn't mind. Oh
yeah, Eric. Yeah, just a couple couple
comments. One, I think all of us are
working to integrate AI into our
businesses and clearly there are mid-off
functions that can be made maybe cheaper
but certainly incredibly more effective.
I think of like our audit business for
example. So we get audited you know they
might audit samples of your work once a
year right so you got 5% of the
information audited annually a lot of
this information is now audited
continuously so if you got a problem you
find out about it right away find about
a year from now same thing in our
investment processes you're bringing
this these tools in to synthesize data
to be able to capture your internal data
and external data and improve decision-
making in a way that's if anyone spends
any time with these models you'll know
they're incredibly effective. So I think
that's definitely true. I think the
value ad for the portfolio companies I
would say I have five anecdotes of it.
We're working hard with these
businesses. I think we're working hard
to play defense and offense with the
rest of the portfolio. But there are
five good examples like you can see that
this works and so I think those people
will be able to proize with other
businesses. But for us the third piece
that's really important is what does
this all mean for the investment
universe? Because we've got a huge
infrastructure portfolio. For example,
we own a lot of data centers. We have a
huge technology business, early stage
technology business that's investing in
LLMs or the businesses that are building
software solutions on top of LLMs. All
those companies, all that capital that's
being spent is only going to get
payback, the payback we hope we're going
to get if all of these anecdotes come to
be true. So these things really need to
happen to support all the rest of it. So
I think that there's a whole ecosystem
that works in concert here. Based on
what we see so so far, I think we're
quite optimistic these solutions are
real. But that is part of the judgment
that's being made across the industry.
Uh David, you you talked about how you
joked that you wouldn't mind being
replaced, but private equity is at its
core or historically at least has mostly
been an apprenticeship business, right?
People and it's not always perfect and
some people kind of come in from from
industry, but often somebody starts
young and they work their way up and and
so I'm curious, you said maybe you guys
just won't scale in the same way. It
would seem, and tell me if I'm wrong,
for any of your firms, that at some
point, if not already soon, you're going
to be hiring fewer young people right
out of college or right out of business
school. And at some point, that that
upward flow that there's just going to
be less of a pipeline of people. Are
your firms like the f Who are the
partners? Who's the managing partner of
Bane in 30 years if you're not hiring as
many analysts today? A robot.
We're still hiring lots of analysts. So
listen, I think this is about a new
division of how we think about, you
know, the value added aspects of of
work. And so, you know, if you take that
specific example of AI, I think the
hardcore analytic uh pieces, I think, um
how we're leveraging all of our
historical, you know, data to bring that
into a relevant investment decision.
That stuff I think is going to change
significantly in terms of the percentage
of our organization that that would be
focused on that. But how you then apply
that you know AI is a enabling
technology but ultimately what has to
happen is a business process has to
change a workflow has to change and
that's extremely diff different industry
by industry and so but you don't you
don't think that that as we we progress
when you think of where AI technologies
were just a couple years ago to where
they are today and you think where they
could be in 10 years from now that those
value ads the stuff that you all bring
to your portfolio companies the the the
advice the strategy etc that that's not
going to be something that can be done
with a flip of the switch. I think it be
mass it's a massive tool in in the
arsenal or in your in your toolkit. But
I do think it's extremely nuanced and
different how it's applied to certain
industries and then that's ultimately
organizational change and we're seeing
this in this case I referenced which is
an insurance company that does a lot of
claims. You can take out a lot of the
cost and you can turn this into a more
automated process but then to make it
sustainable over time productivity or
offering service you've got to change
the business process. And that that's
that part I'm not sure AI can figure out
although it's moving pretty rapidly. So
I mean our business fundamentally is
about judgment. It's about making
judgments based on information as much
information as we can possibly get. But
isn't that the problem? You and this
isn't insult to you. This true for all
of us. None of us can process as much
information as the AI can. Right? So
more information so you can use AI as a
tool to process more information. That's
great. Hopefully we'll all make better
decisions as a result ultimately over
time as we have more and more of that.
But we still ultimately are making a
judgment based on all of the analysis
and all of the data. And then we're
making that judgment collectively as an
investment committee as a firm based on
people who have been making investment
judgment for you know investment
judgments for a long period of time. So
I think that's the that's the piece that
I don't see that's the core of actually
as a private equity firm what we are
doing dayto-day in every you know across
the levels. Obviously the youngest, you
know, the younger folks are doing more
of the churning and analyzing, but then
from everybody is expected to then have
a view and th the folks who are actually
analyzing all the data have the closest
view because they've been seeing more of
it real time around what does all this
tell us. It's never a perfect picture.
It's never a simple decision. So here
are all the good things, here are the
bad things, here ultimately we come to a
judgment about whether the merits, you
know, outweigh the the the challenges.
Eric, can I can I ask you uh on the LP
side of this? If if if what they're all
saying is correct that there's still
going to be a serious role for for the
investment committee and and flesh and
blood people, but lots of the back
office stuff, lots of the lots of the
grunt work is going to be able to get
automated. If I'm an LP, don't I look
and go, okay, so the fees go down,
right? I think that I'd go back to the
bigger question. I think there's a
question. You're dodging that very
quickly. No, it's not that. I I I think
the rate of change in artificial
intelligence is incredible. Obviously,
the rate of evolution of us is very
slow. And so, if you're going to take a
position that there's some reasonable
probability that it's going to out
compete in many, many categories, it's a
reasonable position. So, I might even
take the other side of this. It wouldn't
surprise me in 20 years if AI were doing
all but running some of the best
investment houses in the world. So, and
how much you pay for it is oftentimes
tied to how how strong the returns are.
And the product we're buying isn't the
hours of labor. That's part of it, but
the product we're buying is the returns
for the portfolio.
The truth is none of us know. Yeah. Uh,
one of the great opportunities in front
of a private equity firm though is we
have hundreds of companies and we can
run more experiments than anyone else in
the world. So what our aspiration is if
we own 250 companies, we want every
single company to get the best outside
thinking they can possibly find. do a
holistic audit of what potential
applications of AI exist and run all of
those experiments and if we do it right
we should learn faster than anyone. Uh
let me I'm gonna go I've got some
audience questions a bunch of them
actually sitting here. Thank you uh to
everybody. One one final quick question
um in news. Uh and this this is a fee
related question but a slightly
different one. Uh Julia I guess I'd
start with you. This is a US question a
little bit more. US private equity if
carried interest tax changes if if the
preferential treatment for carried
interest disappears uh and which is
something that Trump wants and is asking
Congress to do does that change how does
that practically change the US private
equity market investment market or does
it?
Yeah. I mean look this is a topic people
have been talking about for a long time.
Um but you now have you now have a
president who says he wants to do it and
he's got full control of Congress and
they're passing a tax bill. Yeah. Yeah.
No, I think it I think it it will be
detrimental to to our business. I mean,
I think that's what we've all
collectively been arguing for for a long
time. Um, both in terms of talent, um,
in terms of the way we think about how
long we hold our investments, um, you
know, it's it's going to change
decision-m and it's certainly going to
change our ability to attract, you know,
the best talent. We just talked about
how investment judgment and the people
and the apprenticeship model being able
to keep people through um, you know, a
long career. It's a long road, you know,
to make partner at a firm is uh, you
know, it's it it's it's it's predicated
on those people staying on with the
business long term and building those
years of, you know, experience and
judgment. If we're not able to do that,
you know, we're a human, you know, we're
a human capital business at the end of
the day. Um, that will be detrimental.
Do I do will it change the actual I
mean, Julia said it might change some
actual decisions. I mean it doesn't
won't it won't be helpful but um I don't
think it also will determine the overall
framework that we you know of
incentivization compensation we have
because we've all expanded the tools we
have we have around that we're huge
co-investors and all the deals we do we
have a proprietary balance sheet which
then effectively becomes another source
of of pretty turbocharged uh
co-investment others have public equity
and so there there has been a expansion
diversification of of compensation tools
and and systems, a lot of which is
performance-based and and kind of in
essence, you know, equity linked. So, I
think maybe where the industry was 20
years ago would have been actually more
detrimental than where it is now. Uh,
I'm curious and I appreciate that you're
firm's not based in the US, but you do a
ton of business here and have a lot of
people here. Does it change the way fund
documents get written with LPS in terms
of, you know, is the 2 and 20 and I know
a lot of you aren't actually 2 and 20,
but is the 2 and 20 does that disappear?
Does do the fees become high? I mean
does it change? I I don't see that
changing because of the uh um the the
the the tax regime changing in an
important market because these are
global standards, right? And and so
there there might be some some some
other technical changes that might
happen as a result. Um you know whether
you go to whole fund carry or you know
deal by deal is probably then become
going to become less important here in
the US. Um but I do think it it will be
important that you have different tools
to incentivize uh your your your talent
and to retain your talent, right? And in
that context that I think it's actually
helpful to also be able to offer, you
know, share based compensation and and
these things. Uh I'm curious, you I was
Eric, I was going to ask this. This is
an audience question. I was going to ask
Eric, but no, Pete, I'm going to ask you
instead because I'm going to ask from
the GP side, even though I think it's
intended for an LP. Uh this is the
question. He says, quote, uh, the
private equity model is increasingly
criticized as being AUM driven rather
than purely return driven. Uh, what is
the best way for LPS to force alignment?
I would argue LPs should just be focused
on returns. So, if you're a private
equity fund inside of a large
alternatives company, uh, you better
have great returns or you don't deserve
the money. I think it's that simple.
Eric, you got a thought? What can LPs
actually do to force alignment? Uh, no,
I think this is exactly right. We get to
vote every four years with our capital.
And so if a firm is delivering for us,
the the direct ownership of the firm,
the way it's structured is relevant. We
think about alignment. Does that impact
the way the next fund is going to
return? Like is there something that
will create some change in the next
fund's performance? But if we feel
confident in the underlying investments
of the firm, you know, it's it's not the
most important question. Are we back?
You said four years. There was a period
of time where it seemed like every 18
months or so. Are we actually back to
four years? It seems like slower.
I mean, as you know, distribution rates
are now down in the low teens relative
to, you know, low 20s. So, obviously,
the average is that is that easier for
or easier for LPs. Do you feel do LPs
feel they have a better, you know, when
you say you can vote every four years?
Every 18 months is hard. You don't
really know what you're really voting on
because you don't really know what you
know, the value of what was done in the
last 18 months is just so fresh. Do you
think that this lets the slower kind of
more traditional fundraising period does
that let LPs make better or at least
more informed? Yeah, I think so for
sure. And I think it does help firms um
spread out their own capital and their
own risk u in in the way that Pete was
referring to earlier as opposed to
becoming overly concentrated in one
vintage. Uh Pearl, I'll ask this one of
you. Uh this is from earlier in the
conversation. says, "Isn't the point the
G GPS paid too much on average for deals
in 2022 and put too much leverage on the
companies that now can't be refinanced
because of where rates are?" Um
well, I think as as we've talked about
previously, definitely, you know, the um
post pandemic vintage is a more tricky
one. Um um but also here you know back
to the points that we've made earlier
the people that stayed more disciplined
in terms of their investment pacing the
people that also post pandemic uh were
able to uh distribute more cash back to
investors um to de-risk fund and lock in
performance I mean they are in a better
shape today right and or they're raising
lots of continuation funds or or they're
lot yeah using various tools uh in in
the toolbox to ultimately drive returns
for uh for for investors and uh at the
end of the day what will matter is is
performance and ultimate outcome on on
on those vintages and those funds and
every three to four years as Eric said
it the LPS get the chance to vote show
hands from the four you how many of your
firms have raised continuation funds for
for something in the portfolio have any
of you you guys have help me out here
David I'll ask you I'll let Julie All
right so you raise a continuation fund
and I understand LPS in in the prior
fund have a share chance either, you
know, cash in their chips or or or roll
over and stick around. Does the fee
structure reset? Do you get to start
over?
Not quite. So, you know, there's a
change in fee structure. Probably won't
go into the exact details of what the
changes are, but I think it's it's
settled at a pretty, you know, good
equilibrium that still, you know,
appropriately rewards the incentives of
actually, you know, managing these
assets on an ongoing basis for kind of a
new chapter. um but recognizes the fact
that it's not an entirely new, you know,
fund fund apparatus. But listen, I think
there ways continuation vehicles are
really just tools that you can structure
the way you want to structure them. They
can have high alignment or they can have
low alignment based on the types of
assets you're putting in there, the
criteria you use to choose which ones,
you know, go in. We would only put in
assets that are not only interesting
long-term compounding businesses that
are that we think are quite attractive
as big principal investors in our in our
deals, but ones that we actually could
sell. In fact, the the inverse we would
not put in there. Ones we can't sell or
failed to sell, we would not put into a
continuation fund, but ultimately the
secondary buyers and our LPs, we give
them a choice. Uh, final question from
the audience u before we have to go. Uh
it said given the scale and maturity of
many portfolio companies today, one
might expect IPOs IPOs to play a more
central role in exit strategies uh yet
the relationship between private equity
and public market uh appears fragmented
and underdeveloped. Historically,
obviously private equity typically exits
by selling to either strategics or other
private equity. But there has been a
particular der of IPOs uh over the last
couple years coming out of private
equity by historical standards. Just uh
Julia, I guess I'd ask you is
why is it do you think that we are
seeing so few particularly in the
context of public bull equity markets
for several years until you know the
last month and a half of hiccups. Yeah,
look, I think I mean it is cyclical more
more cyclical than overall equity
markets and I think it's it's also very
specific to the individual assets and
for any asset you know Pete talked about
this earlier if you don't have a comp
that is a very strong reference point
that you compare you can cleanly compare
against or you know if you're going out
and seeking to be at a significant
premium to things that aren't even
really comps right um that creates
issues and then you have a bad execution
and then the next folks that try to IPO
after that with a sponsor asset it
becomes more challenging. So I think um
you know some of it's also systemic to
you know healthcare and anything exposed
to R&D funding obviously that's in a
cycle. So some of it is also specific to
you know subsectors um and you know
cycle timing that might be different
from overall equity markets. Um but yes
it is it is a it is a tool that we all
use as an exit mechanism. I think when
we think about exits and we talk a lot
about exit as we think about entering
and making the investment. We really
focus on exit optionality and we really
prioritize
availability of cash buyers whether they
be strategic or sponsor depending on the
size and scale of the asset and you know
the specific value creation levers that
we're going to use to make it more
appealing to whatever set of cash buyers
we think um you know we we will want to
sell to. final quick just on that topic,
right? I mean, I I'd just like to put it
a little bit in perspective. Over the
last 12 months, we've done two
multi-billion dollar IPOs, one in in the
US, one in one in Europe. They're up
100%. Um, and we've So, that would mean
you've had a number of
Well, all all I'm saying is that I think
it's an important tool in your exit
capabilities. Um, and the better
reputation you have among public market
investors as a PE firm, the better
positioned you you'll be also going
forward to continue to send cash back to
investors. Uh, final very quick question
just down the line. Uh, this is overall
M&A. Overall M&A for the first four
months of the year through the end of
April. Globally was up 16%. Which is
good, not great considering what we're
what the baseline is. When the year
ends, do you believe we will be higher
or lower than 16% up on 2024? Eric, just
down the line.
I'd say lower than 16.
Yeah, I would say lower. And I assume
the 16% is closed deals. That doesn't
really reflect. It's announc No,
announced deals. Announced deals.
Really? That's surprising. Um I would
say I guess it'd be down from there.
Lower, but not not that much lower.
Same. Was that a choice? Sure, it could
be a choice. Feels like puts and takes
are on equal side. We have a much
better, you know, antitrust system
that's that's coming through here. So,
I'd say approved deals. I think that's a
positive for sure. where you get the
final say. I I mean it's already decided
it's lower. Sorry with you. Yeah. So
then Yeah. I I my best guess would also
be probably Yeah. I don't have a choice,
but probably a lower number. Yeah. Uh
everybody, thank you very much and thank
you uh for being here.
