[Applause]
[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to MBA Asks
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Dir Alamy, CEO of Lender Price for
a conversation on understanding margin
pricing engines and how they shape the
current market landscape. Dwir, thank
you for joining us today. Thank you for
having me, Adam. Let's get started. How
have pricing engines evolved over the
past decade and what innovations have
had the biggest impact on lenders and
borrowers alike?
Yeah, so good question. So, over the
past decades, pricing engines have, you
know, transformed from manual
spreadsheets
uh systems to highly automated
cloud-based uh solutions. Um you'll
you've seen lately that we've you know
leveraged artificial intelligence and
real-time analytics and this evolution
has enabled lenders to deliver instant
highly accurate pricing uh to borrowers
improving both efficiency and the
customer experience. The biggest
innovations include seamless
integrations with fintex out there. um
also losses you're seeing uh major
changes with encompasses uh APIs but
essentially improving both um efficiency
in the customer experience and um the
seamless integration essentially offers
uh uh you know better data transfers
back and forth. It provides dynamic
riskbased pricing uh and compliance
automation. These advanced
empowerment this these advanced uh these
advancements you know uh empowers
lenders to react quickly to market
changes minimize errors and provides uh
borrowers with transparent with with
transparent competitive rates in you
know in real time. You mentioned several
benefits there for lenders. So let's
look ahead a little bit. What role do
you see pricing engines playing in
shaping the future of digital mortgage
origination?
Well, I I can say that the biggest
innovations such as AIdriven analytics,
seamless integrations with LOS and
FinTech and real-time pricing updates uh
have enabled lenders to react instantly
uh to market changes and deliver highly
accurate competitive rates for
borrowers. And this all transforms into
you know direct this has a direct impact
to
ROI. I think that these you know these
advances have made mortgage originations
faster more transparent
uh and far less prone to costly errors
uh benefiting both lenders and borrowers
by streamlining the entire process and
improving the customer
experience. Lender Price were proud to
drive this innovation forward.
Um our platform uh harnesses uh you know
various machine learning.
Um we have things like precision pricing
uh a robust uh Mitch man risk management
system. We've also have a solution
called bulk API. It's the first in the
industry that helps servicesers retain
their servicing books. Um, and this
flexibility to adjust pricing strategies
on the fly, uh, will give borrowers the
transparency and speed that they expect
in today's digital world. So,
essentially, by staying ahead of
technology trends, here at Lenderpric,
we're dedicated to setting the standard
for modern, efficient, and customer uh,
centric pricing engines. That's a lot of
wonderful information there, Dir. And
what a great conversation. There's
certainly a lot to think about about the
future of pricing engines and what
lender price is doing. Thank you for
joining us today on NBA Ask the Expert.
Thank you. Have again. Thank you for
having me. Appreciate being here.
[Applause]
[Music]
