Hi, welcome to the Grafana Alloy for Beginners
series. My name is Mischa Thompson and I'm a
Senior Software Engineer at Grafana. In the
previous episode, we talked about collecting
metrics from our application servers. In this
episode, we'll cover ingesting traces emitted
by those applications. These episodes build
on one another. Before starting this one,
make sure you've watched episodes one through
nine and completed Alloy configuration sections
one through four in the repo. To get started,
open the Grafana Alloy for Beginners repo and
scroll down to section five. As a quick reminder,
each section contains the starter code, tasks to
explain what you'll need, and a solution with the
finished version. If you haven't already, fire up
the learning environment and open config.alloy.
I'll go over the OTel pipeline we'll be building
visually and then walk through the solution. Feel
free to give it a try on your own first and then
compare with the solution once you're finished.
Alright, let's take a look at the pipeline will be
building for traces. Our mythical microservices,
the server, requester, and recorder are already
configured to emit spans and send them to our
Alloy instance. To start ingesting those spans,
we'll use the otelcol.receiver.otlp component.
As the name suggests, this component receives
spans in the OTLP format and forwards them
down the pipeline. Next, the spans go to the
otelcol.processor.batch component. This component
collects spans into batches before sending them
on, which is a key practice for reducing network
overhead and improving performance. Finally,
the batches of spans are sent to the
otelcol.exporter.otlp component. This
component is responsible for exporting the spans,
and in our case, it's configured to send them in
OTLP format to our locally running Tempo instance
for storage. Let's look at the configuration
for our otelcol.receiver.otlp component.
We've given it the label otlp_receiver,
and we've configured it to receive traces via both
HTTP and gRPC on ports 4318 and 4317. We've also
configured the output block to send spans to our
batch processor, which we'll be looking at next.
The otelcol.processor.batch component takes
incoming spans and batches them together. In its
output block, we're telling it to forward batches
of spans to the input of our next component,
the otelcol.exporter.otlp. We also set some
parameters to control its behavior. It will
try to send batches of a thousand spans,
but it will not exceed a maximum of 2000,
so a burst of spans will be queued and sent in
batches of 2000 at most. If it doesn't reach the
minimum size of a thousand spans, it will send
a batch anyways after a two second timeout.
Finally, we have the otelcol.exporter.otlp
component, which we've named "tempo". This
component sends our traces to the client at the
specified endpoint, which in our case is the
locally running Tempo instance on port 4317. We
have also included a tls block. Since this is a
local insecure connection, for this demo, we've
set insecure and insecure_skip_verify to true,
so we can skip tls verification. Once
you've finished, don't forget to reload your
configuration and you should get a confirmation
saying the config has been reloaded. Once you've
finished, scroll down to the verification
section and navigate to the dashboards.
Go down to section five verification, and
you should now see some data populating. You
should see both a service graph, a table of the
different traces that we're seeing, and a count of
the received spans from Tempo. The service graph
does take maybe a couple of minutes to populate,
so if you see all of the other data, but not this
one, just give it a second and you should be able
to see data. In this episode, we configured
Alloy to ingest spans being emitted by our
mythical microservices, batch them, and send them
to our local Tempo instance. In the next episode,
we'll build a pipeline for ingesting
application logs with Grafana Alloy.
