[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high-n networth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com. In this episode, Bill sits
down with Anelise Osborne, author of
From Hoodies to Suits and a veteran in
both traditional finance and the
evolving digital asset space. Annalise
shares her journey from commercial real
estate and structured finance at Moody's
to becoming a leading voice in
blockchain innovation. They explore the
institutional adoption of crypto, the
role of blockchain in transforming back
office operations and the shifting
attitudes of younger generations toward
investing. The discussion also covers
tokenization, stable coins, permission
blockchains, and the broader
technological convergence with AI and
DeFi.
[Music]
Annaise Osborne, welcome to Educational
Alpha. Thank you, Bill, for having me.
I'm super excited to be here. I've been
looking forward to this and I think we
hatched this plan at the barrel elites
platform, our mutual friend VDC. You and
I were on a panel together. I don't
think we had ever crossed paths before
that. And I will say I've spoken on that
platform a couple of times and it's the
most eclectic conference I've ever gone
to. It's in a bar, people are moving
around, but the content is great and it
evolves into a nighttime entertainment,
too. So, maybe it speaks to a lot of
what you've done around breaking norms
down and going from maybe tradi to DeFi,
but interesting platform and the origin
of this discussion. It is, it was a
great conference and they do have really
great conversations there. I thought I
felt like they were very deep. They do
it. VideC I think does a lot of YouTube
videos that he came out of that and they
get a lot of pickup too. So there's
definitely an echo to that content which
is great because if you're not there you
can pick the pathway and see what you
want to learn. So I think it's from that
standpoint very very good platform. So I
did learn a lot from you there not the
least of which is you're amongst many
things an author as well and you wrote a
book from hoodies to suits talking about
the innovating digital assets for
traditional finance. We're going to talk
about that through the lens of the book
to some degree, but it's here and now
with or without the book, but you've
done a very good job of being a tour
guide for so many that have had the
opportunity to take a look at the book.
But before we get to that, maybe a
little bit of your background because as
I best understand it, you grew up
yourself in the trad space. I did. I am
surprised to be here, but I love it.
It's super interesting and I learn
something every day for sure. I did
traditional finance. I worked in
commercial real estate and then I worked
at Moody's doing commercial mortgage
back securities and all sorts within
structured finance and CNBS was actually
innovative at the time when I had
started a long time ago because if you
think about it it decreased the cost of
financing because it shifted the risk
from banks balance sheets to bond
holders who could buy at their level of
risk. So that was interesting at the
time. I did that after business school
and I stuck around for a long time. When
I left Moody's, I did a lot of corporate
board work and then I starting up
helping different hedge funds, private
equity, family office, startup business
lines. So I done my corporate time and I
was looking for something new and
growing and I got into the space because
I was asked to join a regulatory task
force for ICOs when I did not know what
an ICO was. And an ICO is an initial
coin offering. It is slightly similar to
an IPO in the sense that it's
fundraising for a new company, but an
IPO is established. And an ICO is you
and I have an idea and we want to go out
and get people to fund it from a very
early venture stage. So that's how I got
into the space. I did a lot of research
and I learned what blockchain was and
how it worked and I just saw the
applications for capital markets and I
assumed other people were working on it
and at the time people working on it
were kind of more the hoodies in the
sense that they were tech or
entrepreneurs and they didn't understand
finance. I don't think finance is
broken. I think it can be upgraded. It's
continually upgraded. Think about pink
sheets and faxes before emails even. So
yes, I think it's the next iteration.
Now I found a partner back in 2018 and
we started then and I've stuck with it
as the market continues to evolve. I was
definitely early in 18. I think now is a
much more interesting time especially
for your audience with the world of like
trading and institutional investors and
hedge funds. I think now people are
paying attention. It's interesting. I
think a lot about this current trend is
very very different in that innovation
used to be the home of the institution
or the institutional investor and and
the endowment model which some people
use had its roots back to the 1800s when
Harvard began investing their endowment
and if there was a new investment idea
around venture capital or hedge funds it
was done institutionally. It does seem
like this whole explosion of digital
assets grew up more at the retail level
to some degree and I think the
institutions and you mentioned this in
your book and a certain large bank CEO
was very very dismissive of what
blockchain and more specifically crypto
and I think oftentimes people wrongfully
so use those terms interchangeably but
eventually either holding their nose or
not the camel has come into the tent and
I think that's been disruptive in so
many ways because we're having to learn
from the next generation as opposed to
creating these great ideas ourselves.
And I don't know how much of an
impediment toward accepting that has
been because I think and I love the
title because if you go into a
conference and a bunch of people wearing
suits and somebody walks in in the
hoodie, your instinct is to immediately
dismiss that person as a non-serious,
inconsequential member of that new
community. Well, also if you think about
Zuckerberg when he did Facebook, it was
like a page of honor to not dress up and
wear suits. It's like we don't need to
follow the status quo. And so it also
goes along with the lines of does
innovation come from institutions. And I
think sometimes institutions are more
difficult to innovate out of because we
know what we're supposed to do. We
understand this is the regulation, this
is the workflow, this is the process
that's the most efficient, but it's not
necessarily the mindset of the hoodie.
And the hoodie is more like how can we
move fast and break things or what can
we do differently. If you think about
when Bitcoin started, it launched in
2008 at the same time as Occupy Wall
Street. And so the Bitcoin white paper
came out and it was about how
peer-to-peer we cannot use the banks and
I can't transfer money to you and it was
the same time people are doing sitins
and trying not like they were against
the big banks. So that was an
interesting dynamic from my perspective.
Banks and investment companies can
actually benefit. they can make money
and save and reduce expenses off of this
technology. But the idea behind it to me
was much more uh libertarian and how do
we fractionalize and I think there's
different ways we can take this we can
take this one we can look at the
alternative asset class of crypto which
if you think about so stepping back a
little from hoodies to suits is the
technology the technology was started by
these entrepreneurs and these hoodiew
wearing tech guys but they created I
think it's $3.4 $4 trillion is now how
much is in the crypto ecosystem. That's
amazing. They created that. And now to
take it the step further into
institutions. That's where I think the
suits are really important because we
need to understand regulation. We need
to understand the flow. We need to
understand how to build and grow
businesses as well because there aren't
that many Mark Zuckerbergs out there who
can actually take a thought to actually
a public company that does well. And
also Mark Zuckerberg now wears suits. If
you look at him when he's at Congress or
wherever he's presenting, he's not
wearing that hoodie anymore. So, it's
like a right of passage when you cross
that chasm. As you alluded to, I think
we're going to see more and more of
emerging these technologies. Maybe
there's going to be a lot more M&A
because I think some of these big banks
and insurance companies, they have a lot
of balance sheet. And once they
understand, they get up the learning
curve, maybe read your book, then they
can say, "Okay, now I have my aha
moment. We have to do something about
it." And I wonder and and your views on
this would be important maybe to set the
rest of this conversation in at least
when it comes to doing something. I
don't know enough about this, but I look
at the power of blockchain and the
distributed ledger as a recordkeeping
mechanism very different than
traditional double entry accounting. But
if the banks and insurance companies can
get that right, is that the first most
important building block or is there
something else that has to come before
that? I think there's definitely use
cases for blockchain. So if we're
talking about back office functions,
it's safer, cheaper, and more secure.
Think about a large Google Sheets where
you know who inputs into every block and
you can't erase it. And I think we'll
definitely decrease error with manual
entry. I think we'll see what's there.
We all have access to it. There's a lot
that can be programmed and I think that
blockchain technology allows for that.
So I think there's definitely cost
cutting measures that we can talk about
for most back office. I mean, if you
look at JP Morgan, they created JP
Morgan coin, which is in essence an
internal stable coin for the bank, and
they save millions. I'm not sure the
number because it hasn't been published
for a while, but they save crazy amounts
of money every year being able to use
that internal immediate transfer, which
is in essence an internal digital
currency to JP Morgan. They use it for
repo transactions. They use it for all
sort of collateral transfers. And is it
backed like a stable coin? It's backed
by depository receipts. So that's why it
stays within the ecosystem. We can talk
about stable coins. So think about
institutions coming into this market. If
we look at a year ago, the ETFs went
live and the ETFs which are really an
institutional rapper of crypto an
opportunity to invest in this
alternative asset class. There's a
hundred billion dollars now in one year
in crypto ETFs. So that's actually
really impressive because that money it
might be coming from some retail but
it's also really coming from
institutions as well. And if you think
about the price of Bitcoin, which we
haven't really talked about, initially
crypto had a really bad reputation
because it was so volatile. There is
crazy volatility within cryptocurrencies
because they're not backed by the full
faith and credit of the US government,
for example. They're not necessarily
backed like a bond is backed by the
credit of a company or some sort of
collateral. It's not backed by
collateral. But if you think about now
with hundred billion dollars in these
ETFs, they're generally Bitcoin ETFs and
institutions are less likely to day
trade. So I think that that's going to
help decrease the volatility of
something like Bitcoin. Maybe on that
point, maybe slightly out of sequence,
but it's worth pausing on it. So, the
institutions are more investors than
traders and they're buying this because
they think they're getting at a fair
value and they're looking for long-term
appreciation. And a lot of the
volatility has been driven by the fact
it's been individuals just day trading
the hell out of Bitcoin. And I do wonder
as we think about a next generation
where we're responsible for our own
retirement, I just had a guest on
earlier today. We talked about the same
thing. Are we feeding into the trading
frenzy of this next generation versus
trying to find ways of making them more
investment savvy? So, it's great for the
institution, but how do we ingrain that
in the minds of the hoodies? So,
interesting to bring this up. So, I do
have a chapter in the book on this as
well that I think generational wealth
and generational decisionmaking is very
different. So, there was a study that
was done in the UK that 85% of Gen Z in
the UK turned to influencers first.
There's actually an article that was
done less than a month ago in the Wall
Street Journal that talks about
different generations and where they get
their financial advice. It shows for the
next generation, influencers first, then
friends, then professional organizations
like banks etc. It's very different
because if you look at the baby boomers,
the number one is from the financial
institutions. It's a tiny for the fin
influencers. So influencers are you or
me who go online and we create an
account and are an influencer in
finance. And not to say that they're
bad, but there's no justification for
who you're listening to if you're a Gen
Z that doesn't have as much information.
You're not going necessarily to your
parents. You're maybe not learning it in
school. And then you think, what do you
do with your money? So I think that's
just a different mentality. And with
that same mentality, if you think about
Gen Z and millennials grew up very
digitally. They grew up with a
supercomput in their hand as a
telephone. And they're very digitally
native. And so they would like to have
more opportunities to invest on apps.
They're much more comfortable on apps,
for example, than say the baby boomers
are where they had to learn as a second
language technologies. And so I think
there's got to be a way for
institutions, especially raas or
retirement opportunities for
investing that work with them, meet them
somewhere in the middle because it's a
different mentality. If they're going to
be on social media, they're going to
need to have they're also going to have
half the world's wealth soon. The baby
boomers money, it's a great wealth
transfer that's transferring to
millennial and gen Z. Millennial, the
oldest millennial is about 40ish. And so
they're starting to run the departments
and the companies. So they're not only
going to have the majority of the
world's wealth, they're also going to be
running the companies and making
financial decisions. So I do feel like
there's going to be a shift and that the
idea of retirement planning, we need to
think about how do we capture that group
of people? How do we reach out to them?
Because a lot of this generation don't
want to work with necessarily their
parents' investment advisor. And I think
that whole field of investment advice is
ripe for disruption, too. I just don't
know if it can happen fast enough
because you look at the average age of
these advisors. They're 50 to 60 years
old. Most of them are white males, so
they're already struggling when the male
of the partnership usually dies first.
The spouse usually doesn't want to keep
them. And now you've got this transfer
of wealth. I think these Gen Z and
millennials have a very different
attitude and approach. And even if these
advisers can keep the business, they're
not even going to be speaking the same
language to them. So I don't know what
the outcome will be and usually
disruption presents opportunities and
hopefully the right app or set of people
settle in there to really make sure this
next generation has the right access but
thinking more about being investors
versus day traders. So I will teach at
different universities one-off. I'll go
in for one class and I always ask who
owns crypto and who owns mutual funds
and it really is interesting that
different schools there's a different
sway but my most recent one more people
own mutual funds than crypto. So I do
think there are some people relying on
their parents and less on crypto but I
also think that the investment market
has changed. So if we look at in what
was it 96 the height of the market for
public companies where there were over
7,000 public companies and now there's
4,000 and so there's more in the private
markets and so in the private markets
what are the opportunities and who can
invest in them? It's just not as easy.
It does present a whole host of problems
and opportunities as well. And your
point about the shrinking public markets
if you and I have responsibility for our
own retirement, we should have access to
real economy. Full stop. And it's hard
to argue the other side of that. But
then how do we provide that access? And
I think the industry itself is
operating, I would argue, off tradi
norms. So they're saying, well, if I'm
going to get Mr. and Mrs. John Q public
in here, they're really not equipped to
do it through a draw down fund. So let's
create an interval fund which acts and
behaves more like a mutual fund with
quarterly openings and navs being struck
etc etc. And I just don't think that
that's necessarily the killer app. And I
look at blockchain as perhaps part of
that solution where you could create
maybe different sleeves of liquidity a
permission blockchain around price
discovery. And so I just don't know if
the industry has gotten this right. I
think they're moving very quickly toward
asset gathering, maybe being less
thoughtful about sustainable solution to
the end investor. I do think that
blockchain is working to fix that
problem and opportunities to access
private equity funds. For example, right
now the minimum buyin for private equity
is so high, say it's $5 million to
invest in some of these funds. Well, the
back office functionality of blockchain
that we were mentioning before actually
makes it much more efficient to be able
to take more investors in to some of
these funds and then actually decrease
the minimum investment. And that
opportunity allows more people to take
part. So maybe instead of $5 million,
it's
$200,000 or it's going to get lower than
that. I'm sure it will be $50,000 soon.
So if you look at KKR, Apollo, Hamilton
Lane, Franklin Templeton, all of them
have tokenized private equity funds to
offer more opportunities. And this I
think also speaks to the changing
generations where they're all looking
forward as in where are we going, not
where are we today. So I think they are
looking at opportunities to offer
private assets in a differentiation
investment so we can have more
diversified portfolios. It doesn't just
have to be mutual funds or specific
stocks. So I think we're kind of getting
there. It just takes a little while. So
it takes a while to upgrade the systems.
If you think about most of the banks or
institutional investors, a lot of them
have very old systems that they have
built out on from a technical
perspective. And so it's upgrading that.
And a lot of times each group has their
own tech stack. And so I feel like we
are working towards it. Ernston Young
came out with a study maybe last month
that interviewed 352 institutional
investors and their take on digital
assets. And I was very surprised to find
more than half think that tokenization
will be beneficial for portfolio
diversification. So they'll be able to
invest in more types of assets. What
really struck me is 24% actually are
active in DeFi, which is decentralized
finance, which again I'm surprised at
that number. and they said that's going
to obviously increase. And they're
looking to DeFi for derivatives,
staking, and lending. So, if you think
about the decentralized finance model, I
don't think it's that different than
traditional finance. I think a lot of
words are called different things, but
the idea is that there's less
intermediaries. So, I want to finance my
deck behind me. So, maybe I'll put down
my crypto as collateral and I'll get a
loan from someone. There's real life use
cases you could do that. Obviously
that's from a retail perspective much
different from an investment perspective
but that to me was a real eye openener.
Well interesting. Maybe there are
pockets of innovation and we wake up one
morning and it's less pockets and I look
out and there's a field of greatness and
I finally get it. But you mentioned
Hamilton Lane and I followed the story
albeit loosely and right before we came
on I just reminded myself and it was on
the the Polygon blockchain and they came
out with a secondary fund late last year
early this year and you almost had the
numbers spot on so we must be reading
some of the same news stories but this
secondary fund if you were the Abu Dhabi
investment authority and you were coming
through the master fund in Cayman 5
million bucks to get in but if you
funded to come in through the Polygon
feeder fund,
$20,000. Now, that sounds like amount of
money that is more qualified purchaser
or accredited investor, but it ain't 5
million, so it is bringing it to the
masses. And maybe this is just
speculation on my part. You might have
more of an informed view, but there's
got to be some trading on that feeder
fund on the blockchain. And I would have
to imagine that it would have to be a
permission blockchain that somebody
would have to be playing referee. And I
know you talk a little bit about
permission blockchains in the book.
Sure. You can actually put permissioning
on public chains. There's different ways
to look at privacy as well, which is I
think the biggest I'm spending a lot of
time. I wouldn't say challenge because I
think we're figuring it out opportunity
is to find ways to privately protect.
Public chains are actually very
efficient. If you think about I look at
it like the internet and the internet.
The internet is what we first used
because companies were afraid of having
access to all the information and who's
going to hack what. But then you realize
the internet was like a bulletin board
for us at companies and internet you
could actually access all sorts of
information. Now commerce is done
straight on internet. I think the
blockchain of a public blockchain is
similar because it's not as restricted.
I think a lot of the private
permissioned are more like a very large
database, but the idea of being able to
transfer tokens or transfer investments
or dollars or what have you. There's
opportunities to put permissioning. So,
Polygon is public. And so, if you look
at a lot of the tokenized funds, they're
done on public chains because you can
transfer back and forth, you can cash
in, but they have any security is a
security. there's a KYC whitelist and
you can only transfer it to somebody
within that whitelist. So that is fixed
different privacy things that we're
looking at and doing it without a
moneyaundering perspective. How do we
have the benefit of the blockchain and
the decentralized nature usually is very
open to information. But for example,
what if I have $20 million in my wallet
and I don't want to admit that I have
$20 million, but I want you to know that
I have $2 million of Bitcoin I can
transfer you, for example, or Fidelity
fund that I can transfer to you. So, I
think there's different ways that we're
approaching that, but I do think there
are opportunities for privacy and
permissioning on public chains as well
as now granted I'm at Cadenna. We're a
public chain. So, that's how I see it.
But if we look at even the banks, the
banks are trying to figure out now how
to work on public chains. One thing the
banks are very highly regulated and so
there's not a lot of clear regulation
right now for banks. So that's why we
look at Micah in Europe there's black
and white that's not gray and banks
can't play in the gray because of the
regulations. But they're also
recognizing we're going to get here.
Let's start planning now. So there's
sandboxes. For example, in Singapore,
there's a number of US banks that are
doing projects out in the sandbox in
Singapore on public chains to realize
once we can do this on public trades,
how do we do it? Jumping back a moment,
you mentioned it earlier and just now
again this concept of collateral staking
and lending. So, if I use securities
lending, which has been around longer
than you and I, and if I'm a fund or an
asset manager, I lend securities and I
take cash in or repos or something as
collateral. And usually it's
collateralized up to 102% just to pick a
number. And the underlying collateral is
relatively stable. And if it moves
around, I call in more. If it's moved
up, I return some collateral. How does
it work if the security is crypto or
Bitcoin? And it's very volatile. Is it
just more capital calls? How does that
work? Well, it's programmable. It can
automatically cash out. So, your
collateral will cash out to pay down the
loan that you have. if there's
volatility. So, it's just automated and
automated that it will call in more
collateral, too. If it's needed, it
could. Yeah, it depends on however you
program it using a smart contract. I
assume you can use a smart contract to
have more collateral called in. If you
think about margin calls 247, the world
and the financial world are so much more
global. So, banking hours, we still go
by banking hours, but cash can be
transferred outside of banking hours at
this point. But that's one thing that
for a 247 market having automated margin
calls where you can rebalance and you
don't have to call and make a transfer
by pressing buttons or using the phone.
I think that's a huge step in
efficiency. Think about high frequency
trading. That was another step of
increasing in technology to make our
lives easier. So I feel like this is as
well. And the cash you mentioned
stablecoin before like we can dive into
that a little bit too. The stable coin
market now is $240 billion.
$240 billion. So it's more than visa
transactions. So it's actually really
interesting to think and those are
generally held by US treasuries. So if
you think about that they're a huge
holder of US treasuries, the stable coin
market. So the crypto market, all of
these degenerates that people looked at
before that are not degenerates. But the
idea of all these hoodies, but stable
coins are in essence a digital currency
that we can transfer today immediately.
I can transfer to you. I can transfer to
my aunt in Africa with no crossber
payment fees. There's just the cost of
gas getting it over there which is very
minimal. I don't have to use Western
Union and they get it today. If you
think about if I got a check in the mail
so it probably took what 5 days to get
to me. I cashed the check in my bank
account actually using my phone and it
was a fiveday clearing. So that's 10
days that I don't get the money. But
think about if I could get the money
immediately instead of them writing me a
check. Think about the velocity of
money. And if I am an institution and
I'm dealing with billions of dollars or
trillions of dollars that are going
through the financial system, if I don't
have to wait days to get it, I could
automatically put it up against
something else. So I do think that
there's a lot of benefits. Even central
banks outside the US, there's something
called central bank digital currency
where they're looking at the reserves of
the countries. Stable coins are stable
because they generally mimic the US
dollar and they're usually held as a
reserve of US treasuries or a basket of
something similar. So it stays at a
dollar. A central bank digital currency
is in essence backed by the full faith
and credit of whatever country is the
central bank is putting it out. So
what's interesting is a lot of central
banks outside the US were actually
looking into CBDC's because of crossber
payments which is also interesting
because that's really trade oriented as
opposed to I don't know I usually think
of it internally as in internally within
their countries but that was an eye
openener to me as well. So if you look
at the US is it a question of when or if
we will have a CBDC? Oh with CBDC
there's other things that go into
CBDC's. there's a question of privacy
where I spend my money that I don't have
to file my taxes. They can see
everything coming and going. And even
though I know that there are programs
for the digital dollar, I think that's
probably the biggest concerns about
having a US CBDC. I do think stable
coins will come first. Stable coins
being PayPal has a stable coin. Visa and
Mastercard are also really looking at
this. So the companies that we would
think would be replaced are spending a
lot of time and money figuring out how
can they shift their business to
incorporate this. So that's something to
think about as well. That means we're
really here and with the changing
administration the US this year it's a
huge boom year. The SEC is much more
open to previously the SEC chair there
was a lot of enforcement actions where
companies would ask questions but then
they were almost ruling by enforcement.
Now the SEC is trying to be much more
clear to say we're really interested how
do we become the hub of innovation in
the United States and not move outside
the US. So I think that is super helpful
and I think that's going to really
translate into growing in the United
States this year for innovation. But you
had asked about CBDC. I think PayPal for
example has a stable coin. So I don't
even need to know I'm using blockchain.
I can just open my PayPal account and
transfer money. There's not a 3% fee
charged if Visa or Mastercard. It's
transferred immediately. Even in Visa,
Mastercard, the retailers don't get the
money immediately. We're working with a
country about doing a stable coin as
opposed to a CBDC, but actually a stable
coin supported by the sovereign. So,
that's really interesting because it is
then technically money, not a security.
Security is if I can get yield on my
stable coin, which we're looking at
doing that too. So, for example, if you
have a tokenized treasury fund, instead
of me holding dollars in my wallet or in
my bank account, I can hold it in a
tokenized treasury fund so I generate
yields while I'm sitting on my cash.
Interesting. So, with these stable
coins, and this is going to maybe show
my old schoolness, but how different is
it from using zel or Venmo? You don't
even need to know. That's when I think
we've arrived is when we don't say
blockchain or even stable coin. The idea
is I can just sign in with my regular
web two, right? I sign into my PayPal
account and I send it over, but it's
more immediate because the transaction
is immediate. If you send it with Zel,
you're not actually able to take the
money out right away unless there's
already money there that covers it. So,
so Zel is not using blockchain
technology. No. Okay. Fed now they came
out with to try to transfer money
faster. But even they're looking at
blockchain. DTCC is looking at
blockchain. Swift is looking at
blockchain. All of these companies and
intermediaries are figuring out how can
we do it faster, cheaper, more secure.
So, it's interesting that intermediary
transfer agents. If you have a
blockchain, do you need a transfer
agent? Because in essence, all of that's
recorded on the blockchain. But there
are digital asset transfer agents and
they're trying to figure out how can we
make this better. You mentioned DTCC.
So, I think most listeners will know
security processor for three quadrillion
of security transactions. And in advance
of this conversation, at least I know
they had been doing some work with
digital assets and blockchain. And so I
looked just quickly to see where they
are. You probably know more than I, but
they just announced in April that they
come out with smart contracts for
digital collateral markets where they're
going to settle collateral using smart
contracts. And it's interesting maybe
tying two things together. When we came
out with
T+1 for security settlement middle of
last year, I think most people would say
we're still talking about one day as
opposed to 1 second or one nanoc. So I
think anybody that thinks that TRDFI is
just sitting in their hands just waiting
and watching. Not the case at all. And I
don't think anybody 30 40 years ago
would view DTCC as an innovative
organization, but they clearly are. I
think they do. But they also have to pay
attention. It's like if you think about
the Codox or the Blockbusters or look at
Yahoo and AOL or Skype, Microsoft shut
Skype down last week or two weeks ago.
You might be the front runner or you
might have a great business model, but
if you don't keep up, you might
disappear. But I do think the DTCC is
definitely looking at what's next. They
acquired Surrency last year. I think it
was last year, which was a big
blockchain company. So they brought it
in-house. So you had mentioned M&A. M&A
is also happening within the crypto
industry. So there was a I don't even
remember how many billions this week
that Coinbase just acquired a digital
derivatives trader as well. So I feel
like people are putting pieces together
to build and grow. I do think a lot of
the web 3 companies will be acquired or
institutions will look to see how they
can acquire. So I think it'll be an
interesting year. But also you said T
plus one. Not everybody wants T plus Z
because not everybody has the collateral
necessarily. So I feel like it's
something to think about and weigh. It's
like not everybody wants to have their
securities marked to market every day.
But I do think there are ways around all
of this. I think the flip side of a T+5
then more opportunity for the trade to
break the collateral doesn't show up. So
it seems to be if I've made a commitment
the less time between trade and
settlement it seems like the better the
world will be. But I definitely
understand there's an arbitrage at work
there too. So in the remaining time that
we have, I'm curious your views about
generative AI that seems to be sucking
up all the oxygen in the room now and I
hear more and more about that and less
on blockchain and if I'm CEO of an asset
management industry which would maybe
describe the domain of a lot of our
listeners, what is the right approach?
Is it first it was tradfi then moving
toward alt and then blockchain and now
generative AI alt data quantum computing
what should the focus be and maybe
eventually we see a great convergence of
all of this new technology but how do
you see the future and maybe some of
these uh trends merging together? Well,
first, if I was running a company, I
would look to identify my problems and
then solutions as opposed to I know some
people were just trying to use
blockchain for the name blockchain
before, but it's kind of like how can I
make my company more efficient? So, from
an AI perspective, if we're talking
about forecasting or we're talking about
synthesizing large amounts of data to
for predictive analysis, I think that's
a great tool. If it can help us make
better financial decisions as a
fiduciary, I think it absolutely makes
sense. This is I think probably 18
months ago now, but Google's deep mind
had solved a mathematical equation that
we were never able to solve before. That
to me defines what generative AI is. It
is able to synthesize all of these data
and come up with something new just for
people to put it in perspective. So I do
think that that makes sense. Obviously I
know people are looking into quantum. I
think quantum is interesting. Some
people say it's 5 years away. I think
it's longer than that. Cooling is a big
problem with quantum. If we look at the
idea of technological innovation, it's
just exponential. And especially if you
think about AI from a coding
perspective, we can code faster now
because we can plug it into AI instead
of typing it all ourselves and then fix
the code. So I just think it's going to
be so much faster with technological
innovation than it has been in the last
20 years, which were faster than the 20
years before that. Yeah, it's going to
be interesting. And maybe to finish off,
I think the most important page in your
book is the one where you dedicated the
book to your three sons and the quote
which I love is may you stay curious. I
think that's awesome. What are their
20s, 30s, and 40s going to look like in
terms of career path and interaction
with technology and they're already
probably more techsavvy than me, low
bar, but certainly maybe even more
techsavvy than you. I think jobs will be
streamlined, but we'll also have jobs in
other places. Yes, there are robots
coming out, home health aids, but I do
think that there's still obviously a lot
of trades. My oldest is really into
computer science programming. He always
has been and now he's getting into
finance. Not my push, but I think that
actually having that basis for computer
science and programming is going to be
so helpful for any job because the jobs
aren't going to be tech jobs. I think
every company is going to have such a
huge component of tech that it's going
to be everywhere. My middle is about
astronomy, which is my James Webb photos
behind me. But there's so much
innovation in space and planets and look
at SpaceX and how much cheaper he was
able to do it than NASA and kind of the
innovations that spurn from that that we
can work in everyday life that we don't
necessarily think about. My youngest is
very much a people person. And so this
is another aspect is that I do believe
as fiduciaries we're still going to need
people cuz you want to look the person
in the eye and understand them and know
that you can trust them. So I think the
trust aspect is also still going to be
important because there's so much you
can do in public markets. But I really
feel like any mergers, any really large
transactions, we're still going to sit
down at a table, shake hands or go have
a meal. So, I feel like yes, technology
will make our lives much more efficient
and faster, but I do think us as people,
it's still important to know each other
and trust each other. Is there a working
title for the next book?
We'll see. The book's a labor of love. I
need to make a lot more money now before
my next one, but there are lots of ideas
of what could come next. So, yes, thank
you so much. Well, I look forward to
that and I'll have you on when it does
come out. But I appreciate having met
you and learning from you initially on
the Barl Elites platform and I think our
listeners will get a lot out of this
discussion today. And I'll put a link to
the book there too. I have a copy right
in front of me as I know you do as well.
It is a wellthoughtout digestible read
and I think some of these books they're
not approachable because they're so
academic and I know you said it to me as
much offline and you quickly see it as
you open the book up. it is very
approachable and I think that helps take
the reader on a tour that they can come
away with learning something that
perhaps they would not have been able to
get out of a more academic uh tomb. So,
thanks for all of that. Thank you, Bill.
It's been great conversing with you.
It's so fun to meet you. I look forward
to many more conversations.
[Music]
Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's c
aia.org. See you next time.
