Well, hello everybody listening and
watching at home. Thank you for joining
us for this second part uh of our
ongoing conversations with Roger Owen
who is a leading architect of total
portfolio approach and many other uh
really foundational and provocative uh
intellectual big picture ideas that are
reshaping the global finance industry.
In my last conversation with Roger, we
had talked about uh the kind of history
and the context of TPA in particular as
it pertains to um differences with
strategic asset allocation. Uh Roger
talked about lots of key points around
company governance versus efficient
investing trade-offs and the future of
the human intelligence and artificial
intelligence uh capability stacks and
how TPA can help uncover these big
systemic shifts and help us rethink from
a systemic lens how to better allocate
capital. Um so to make sure that this
next piece of the conversation adds to
that rather than uh repeats it. We are
going to talk about what has changed uh
particularly now the time of recording
this is January and we've just gotten
out of the 2025 year where Roger had
been traveling the world speaking with
many different asset owners and others
about TPA and kind of get his sense
check of where things are at now looking
back over the year that just passed.
We're also going to talk more about what
doing TPA actually looks like in
practice and how to transition safely
with the right guardrails for anyone
listening and thinking about integrating
TPA into their own investment process.
So with that, Roger, thank you. Welcome
back to the podcast and
>> fantastic to be with you again, Ma.
>> Good, good stuff. Well, we're so
grateful to have you as well. Um, you
said to me when we spoke last, Roger,
that
the tempic point was 2025. We've crossed
the chasm. Would you would you elaborate
a little bit on that and speak to where
we've come this past year?
>> Yeah, it was a it was a wow of a year
for me, 2025, because I I calibrated
that basically I'd spent three times as
long on TPA as the other subjects I deal
with relative to where I was the
previous year. So that was a very big
takeoff in 2025. So lots of activity. I
was doing projects. I was doing
different things. Talking about TPA,
finding lots of people now wanting to
talk about it much more than they had
before. So that's kind of normal with an
S-curve of of an innovation that is
landing. It's that that uh point about
landing. It has been landing for a
while. There haven't been so many push
backs against it. But what happened in
2025 was particularly with some notable
uh kind of new funds that were taking up
the mantle uh we actually got I think
something much closer to a tipping
point, a point of inflection. There are
gazillion ways to describe this this
kind of point of um addition to where we
were before which actually is captured
in that scurve and at a point which is
often referred to under uh the theory of
innovation as crossing the chasm.
Crossing the chasm is basically when uh
the early adopters
are able to influence
the mainstream acceptance and that's
what happened in 2025. Mainstream
acceptance kicked in because outstanding
examples of funds doing TPA were
evident. So first there was PGGM in the
Dutch market and and then there was
Kalpers in the US market both making um
quite big uh changes in the way that
they are managing well Kalpers is more
about what happens next year for what
it's worth but both of them were very um
popular um interesting discussions and
so what we had with TPA was I think a
degree of you could call it popularizing
you could call it normal izing and even
a bit of standardizing and each of those
actually uh progressed in 2025.
>> Well, that is terrific to hear. um
we in other domains. I come from the
sustainable investment world in terms of
my career history and one of the things
that was certainly noticeable in the
kind of mainstreaming of sustainability
over the last decade was this notion of
you know the Gartner hype cycle and
things having to plateau before we get
to real scale. Where on that would you
place TPA? Is that an appropriate um
mechanism for assessing where we are or
does this kind of do we need to throw
out the the the existing literature of
how we think about change and systemic
change with TPA? Um what are your
thoughts on that?
>> Well, no, I think that that the Gartner
model and other models have I think
worked on the principle that a number of
stars need to align in order for
significant change to happen. and change
can actually definitely whimper out
because the idea hasn't got enough
compelling force. But I I can only say
that the reasons why people uh find it
appealing here the TPA proposition are
strong enough to move through, but it's
the lack of awareness and the and the
lack of time to transition that has that
has held it back so far. So there are
still I think um growing pains for a
bunch of years. Um I think I referenced
last time that I was involved with SAA
in the 1990s that basically took more
than a decade to to transition to having
previously been all about uh performance
in simple league tables. uh we moved to
something much more sophisticated and we
now are looking at something similar I
think in TPA that it will take a bunch
of years to transition and we will I
think talk about later on which funds
are kind of most likely to benefit they
are the big funds who get the benefit of
scale to apply to this this type of
proposition
>> absolutely well you raised two really
important things there one lack of
awareness
and to your lack of time to transition.
Let's tackle each of those. So to help
overcome the lack of awareness perhaps
maybe in simple plain English, it would
be really helpful um if and I know we
probably did a bit of this in the last
conversation, but perhaps there are
folks joining us for the first time this
time around. So maybe you could just
humor us and give us a very layman's
definition of what topdown TPA is,
especially kind of level three. And why
is this the level seems to be scaling at
the moment?
>> Okay. Okay. Well, just a reminder that
TPA usually has three things spliced
together. It is actually aligned to
goals. It's it's really about best
ideas, competition for capital. And then
the last thing is really dynamism and
resilience. Both of those are pretty
important alongside each other. So when
you um have called out the the one that
you've referred to as top down, you
actually do have to go back to the work
being done by myself and others at the
think ahead institute. Now the over a
period of time think ahead has been
involved with the funds that have been
transitioning here. That's two decades
of work actually for what it's worth.
But essentially um t uh tpa has been
defined by thinking ahead to have
different levels to it and really that
was quite an important sort of step
forward because people thought of it as
a binary point. It just isn't. There are
so many different features that you can
build into your TPA and not everyone
wants them at the same time or even
wants them at the end of end of the
story. So from that point of view, you
actually can think of different levels
of commitment to TPA across a continuum,
a spectrum. And the one you've referred
to is called top- down TPA. And um this
is all in the public domain. Thinking
ahead has as has has created complete
open architecture about this being
available for everyone to use. So in
that area, top down TPA is three out of
five. So there's two more levels beyond
it. very few organizations are right at
the end of the TPA proposition. It's
actually u pretty much it's it's Canada
Pension Plan and a couple of others, but
essentially there's there's a level four
one which is also important. We we call
that joined up TPA, but the level three
one you've you've come up with is is
actually the one that people find very
appealing because it's got the biggest
bang for your buck to most people. They
can actually get to it without too much
disruption to the organization. And that
is really because um the the big
addition to the uh organizational design
is the concept of having a top of house
function. And this is captured um I like
to express it in terms of the fact you
have a chief investment officer but you
also in this type of situation should
really have a chief total portfolio
officer. Bit of a mouthful CTPO, right?
So you got a CIO, you got a CTPO as
well. And that individual is there to
use the function of being at the top of
the house to express rebalancing to
express individual top-down positions on
the whole portfolio. By the way, this is
really introducing factors and themes in
a fairly significant way as well. and
also to drive some of the portfolio
construction from that point. But it's
basically a top- down discipline and and
a lot of it is done through overlay
management. So individuals who are doing
this actually have more of a technical
job than the chief investment officer.
They're taking I think guidance from the
organization's decision structures in
order to make sure that they express
what the overall allocation should be,
what the exposure should be at the top
of the house. And with dynamism being
this factor, this is a pretty active
role. It's not like you're just doing
this once a month. You are actually
looking in on the portfolio, not in a
tactical sense, but in this dynamic
strategic way.
Well, that's interesting because
I think there are and correct me if I'm
wrong, but there are some other
microcosm versions of this. So, if you
take enterprise risk and chief risk
officers for example, uh they have an
enterprise house view of risk and it is
dynamic in its management. It needs to
be by definition. um it might have still
some periodic uh review periods but I'm
sure if something comes outside of that
time frame or cycle it will be uh given
the attention that it deserves and that
often sets the tone for other decisions
that get made across the business. So,
if I've understood this correctly, would
the CTPO, chief total portfolio officer,
have a some somewhat of a similar role,
but specifically where the end goal is
the asset allocation and the portfolio
construction, but done in a way that's
dynamic, that's responsive, that's
integrated with the whole of the
organization and actually takes this
kind of macro big systemic view and
applies it through the various integrals
and um uh sort the verticals I should
say of the business and how it actually
is managed day-to-day cult culminating
ultimately in the portfolio. Is that
correct?
>> Yeah. Um very simp
uh so I like the idea that you're
bringing the the verticals into
something of a horizontal right you see.
So it's total portfolio that's in the in
the job title and really from that point
of view a chief risk officer is doing
something in a domain that could is
parallel to that. Um obviously the chief
risk officer may have more in interest
or influence over enterprise risk
relative to portfolio risk but the key
dimensions of portfolio risk have to be
somehow managed usually in this this
structure of three lines of defense. So
so that is happening anyway but what is
happening here is that the organization
is really taking a much more direct
route to managing its exposures at the
top level. And again, I'm going to
emphasize that one of the things that
people always call out with TPA is, "Oh,
we can do factors better." We absolutely
can do factors better, not because
you're jobing in and out of factors, but
because you can actually put uh
structural and strategic positions in
place that actually have a longer time
horizon to them. And that includes of
course all these exposures to different
um themes
where technology is an example um you
put a an exposure onto that theme. Now
what is the difficulty with a lot of
this technology stuff at the moment is
that people are actually being whipsed
by short-term benchmarking into having
positions and then and then moving out
of those positions etc. Whereas the
structural opportunity with technology
here is actually handled through the the
CIO ship which is coming up with the
exposure and the CTPO ship which is
actually making sure it's executed
according to the spec. So the CTPO
doesn't have the discretion to just do
whatever with with the top down
position. They're reflecting the views
of the CIO ship. Now I I call it CIOShip
because it's more than an individual
who's involved there. You've got the IC
type structures within an executive that
actually create a a decision which
actually is a reflection of some sort of
cognitive diversity and collective um
discussion that actually produces
something better than any single
individual can produce. So yes, it is
exactly that horizontal taking all the
verticals in as it were. And of course
the big issue with that is what I call
the intelligent stack which has to be uh
really on the money consolidated
everything and actually giving you the
exposures that actually matter in a
fastmoving world.
I really like the example you gave about
technology in particular because
technology and artificial intelligence
is top of mind for every organization
around the world right now I am sure and
the this question of like addressing
these risks and opportunities at pace
because things are happening so fast and
we need to respond but the challenge
sometimes with that type of knee-jerk
reaction is you end up with an
accidental system. you're optimizing on
the margin every single time. And
actually, what if I've understood
correctly, this CIO ship and CTPO ship,
partnership, lots of ships, um, can help
create a coordinated, integrated
response that is thought out through a
longer term time horizon that cocreates
from that horizontal kind of bird's eye
view. something that's actionable and
intentional rather than, you know,
constantly reacting to these individual
benchmarks and these individual metrics
like at the at a moment's notice and
maybe missing the bigger picture.
>> Yeah, really good. Um it is like that in
principle and the interesting thing is
that the practice doesn't always deliver
to that level of precision because
organizations are still scrambling
around to try and reconcile exactly what
their positions are. Obviously you've
always you you've always got the issue
about private markets exactly what those
exposures represent. And so from that
point of view, you've got to do a lot of
grunt work to get yourself to the point
where you you've actually consolidated
at speed. Of course, you're not really
trying to take a decision even as as
little as 12 hours out of date. You're
actually trying to actually have real
time stuff. Now, in in all my work with
big asset owners, all of them are kind
of saying we're not even close to
getting that perfect situation. We're
sort of in work in progress on it. and
we see the future and we will get there
but at the moment we actually have
shortfalls and therefore we're not
always consolidating the data with the
speed that you want. So this velocity of
intelligence
um is like a holy grail and TBA can do
great work on bad data but it's not
nearly going to be as good and as
accurate if it unless it actually has
that good data and of course that good
data is the response to the analytics
that are now extremely sophisticated out
there with respect to exposures. So from
that point of view there are a number of
significant providers vendors of
different proprietary systems who are uh
really becoming a very important part
cog in the chain and those providers I'm
not going to name them here but there's
four or five very credible organizations
that are actually putting their um their
analytics on the line to help
organizations.
And so from that it's consolidation
real time analytics
and it's got to actually also be
decision useful and in that area that
combination you know leads you to
something that actually is a very
powerful force and and there's nothing
equivalent in the SAA space you're just
not taking decisions that actually have
the same influence or impact.
>> No that makes a lot of sense. I think
the vision and the the rationale is
clear. Certainly to me the operating
model and the day-to-day reality. I mean
we talked a little bit about the various
roles that would have to exist and how
they might work together. But um just to
really spell it out for our viewers at
home who might be considering
integrating TPA to their organizations.
If I were inside a fund doing TPA, what
recurring decisions would be getting
made by whom using what information? you
you you'd already referred to some of
those partners and those vendors that
can help be that layer in between, but
um from within the organization itself,
what decisions would I actually be
making?
>> Yes. So, so we start with with the idea
that you've got a portfolio that does
represent a good
proposition for your stated goals.
Everything in TPA goes back to goals,
which is, you know, the way it should
be. It's just not quite like that in
SAA. But in TPA, everything comes to
your goals and therefore you start with
a portfolio that actually is the most
likely to fulfill your goals. Now, stuff
happens and so we are possibly um next
day or it could be even it could be a
little while longer. something new has
happened in the world or something has
happened in the circumstances of the
fund. Now it's more likely to be the
first than the second and really from
that point of view um the investment
world uh genuinely has changed massively
over um over the the recent past. Now
this is all about what what I refer to
as the great acceleration which is that
basically the pace of change is still um
picking up and as a result there's more
change that's coming down the pipeline
which which actually creates more
uncertainty with respect to current and
future pricing of securities and
different investments and that therefore
needs to be thought about in the context
of maybe some changing circumstances in
the fund. that's less likely. That will
happen periodically but less on the
pulse and the drum beat that actually is
creating uh a world where particularly
geopolitical risks but also
sustainability risks and risks of the
energy system and risks of the security
system have all become more significant
and therefore likely to be things which
you might well say actually something
has happened here and I actually can now
dynamically see a portfolio that
actually for the long term is better
than the one that I currently hold. Now
that's the that's the gig. You've got to
really actually look out there and
actually understand that not every move
is a random wall type move. Random wall
type moves are fine. You know, you still
got you can rebalance. Uh that would be
one of the ways of of responding to it.
But actually where there's new
information, you've actually got the
possibility stroke probability that
there's an investment opportunity that
can be harvested. And at the very least,
you're reducing the risk that has
basically come out of those
circumstances, the additional risk that
you want to mitigate. It could be either
of those points. You're investing to get
a higher expected return or you're
investing to reduce your expected risk.
But essentially that's what's going on
within a TPA type organization that
actually it's very fresh to understand
that that there's new opportunities that
are arising every day, every week, every
month. In a SAA situation, you've got to
actually see it as actually it's a bit
of about a quarter and a year. It's it's
very very differently positioned.
>> Yeah. that's far more structured and uh
routine um which is divorced from the
reality of what's actually happening in
the world potentially. So I I do
understand that um the this great
acceleration as you call it I love that
phrase uh things does do certainly feel
that they are accelerating greatly and I
suppose having the goals that TPA offers
is like your north star that can help
you ground in real in in in practice and
in reality
while things are shifting so rapidly.
Um, and I guess that if I've understood
correctly what you're saying, the the
counterargument like one of the reasons
why some some people might say uh who
are critics of CPA potentially, well,
well, I can always rebalance my
portfolio. Like what's really different?
Like I I can respond in real time and
and while that might be true, I think
this gets the heart of, you know, if
it's not connected to the bigger picture
and the bigger end goal, you again,
you're just sort of optimizing on the
margin. you may be creating an
accidental system. You're not saying
that SAA doesn't work. You're just
saying that in certain cases TPA is
probably better and here's why. Um, so
if you think that's an accurate sort of
assessment of of things, um, do let me
know. But I I I definitely feel like
sometimes the challenge with the
naysayers is that they don't see
immediately what the big differences
are. And that's because it could sound
similar if they feel that they can
adjust their portfolio and it's like
yeah on the in its most simple terms you
have a portfolio you're constructing it
you're allocating capital and you're
responding to the world at large that
core premise is not that different
between the two but it's how you do it
and it's the systems in place and the
thinking around the integrated vision
that makes TPA so distinct.
>> Yeah that's that's right. So, one of one
of the criticisms of TPA has been, "Oh,
look, this is just old soup warmed up."
And uh
>> can be quite negative sometimes.
>> Yeah.
>> Believe me.
>> But it it actually does come back to the
incentive structure being very different
between the two. The incentive structure
within a a normal SAA is is very much
oriented around the individual silos,
the sleeves of of the whole portfolio.
And so you're not taking the same
decisions at all. So roughly speaking,
this is my rule of thumb. Some people
would call it a factoid. It's roughly
speaking that you've actually got three
times as much going on in the portfolio,
which doesn't mean that's all about
turnover for what it's worth, but
there's three times as much thinking and
action that's taking place in a in a TPA
situation, which actually is very
interesting because it could be that you
say, "Oh, I'm just not happy to be
necessarily risking that extra bit of
skill that might be required." And that
comes back to the fact that you can't
have a TPA situation that basically
substitutes for skill. There's no point
in going to TPA without u an
organization that actually has skill.
But some of the best opportunities here
are in this um middle ground of themes
and factors
and
dynamic strategic asset allocation which
is just has a different time and tenor
to it relative to the tactical asset
allocation that we know to be very
difficult to execute successfully.
>> Interesting. So very clear and I think
um really helpful in terms of addressing
those points we talked about the you
know the the operating model dayto-day
the kind of simplicity of well putting
it in simpler terms. Now what about the
guard rails to make sure that if you put
this in place you don't revert back to
old habits. What what can leaders and
organizations do to establish a system
of permanence and at least commitment to
this? Because for all the reasons we've
discussed, it on paper they could seem
close and it could very easily, you
know, you could have scope drift back
into the old methods, especially because
organizations are, you know, it's like a
muscle. They have muscle memory and
things often kind of revert back to what
we do and have always done. And this is
certainly a big departure from that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I love the word guardrails.
It's a good one. And really um in risk,
of course, you got three lines of
defense of risk. And it's actually
relatively similar in TPA that you've
got three lines of defense coming from
governance. So governance is your number
one guard row. So governance starts off
with trying to kind of tweak the um the
governor's setup such that the board or
IC is actually giving detailed oversight
into the portfolio and understands the
portfolio. Now, not every board is going
to be happy with that role, and that's
one of the issues about how you might
design this thing. But essentially, what
you need is a strong oversight function
sitting in in the sort of periodic
review category and actually being
prepared to from time to time say,
"Actually, I'm going to challenge that.
I think you should actually look at that
again." or in in some situations just
make the conversation go deeper than it
has. So so really number one in
governance is increased oversight.
Number two is really this data. So real
time data which is accurately
building a picture about the portfolio's
characteristics into the future but also
is all the time keeping score with
respect to what's happened in the past.
I call them dashboard looking forward
and scorecard looking backwards
and the board needs that information but
everyone else needs it as well. It's
kind of like you need your dashboards to
communicate at different levels with
different parts of the organization and
so this data thing has become a bigger
proposition that you need in TPA and of
course the technology is coming along at
the right time to help with it. Uh so AI
is is filling in gaps that that have
previously been problematic. I said that
you have a lot of organizations saying
we haven't really quite got the data
yet. Well trust me AI is going to fill
in that sort of gap over a period of
time. So number two is data. Number
three is strategic foresight. It's a
subject that we've discussed
passionately Mona. So the strategic
foresight which actually is relatively
weak muscled amongst asset owners to
think about the five and the 10-year
horizon much more significantly because
there are new systemic risks lurking at
that type of horizon. They haven't been
manifest before and we haven't got data
on them really. And so this thing about
data is where's the data coming from?
Now basically this is going to actually
be be shaped really about through
judgment and assessment. It's not going
to be shaped by extrapolating the past
because the past will not be a guide to
those types of situation. So this macto
foresight function has to be a
combination between management and
board. It's where boards actually can
play a remarkable role because they are
able to I think think in that lateral
way bring different data points into the
equation and actually put together a
credible view as to some of these
factors. Geopolitical risk obviously
issues to do with energy security issues
to do with water and food security
issues of course to do with climate
change. All of those things are actually
starting to be more troubling and
they're therefore more likely to play
their part in disturbing the future
financial system.
>> Indeed. And I and I love this notion of
a forward-looking dashboard and a
historical kind of scoreboard.
What are some example KPIs
or actual performance metrics? Because I
the one argument might be made that when
you have such metrics, you create a
moral hazard. You're you're optimizing
on those particular metrics because
that's how you're incentivized and
rewarded and acknowledged.
But the point of TPA is bigger than
that. It's actually the opposite of that
in some ways. It's it's not to be
beholdened to these specific you know
milestone post and be more responsive
and more adaptable and agile. So how do
you reconcile those two things?
>> Yeah. So there's there's a very simple
um description of what you need to do
which is called multiple comparators. So
multiple means that if you rely too much
on any single statistic it drives your
decision making exactly as you say.
There's a technical term for it. is
called munchkining. It's basically, you
know, when people kind of completely
miss the point of the spirit of video
games and actually just play for the
points as opposed to playing for what's
supposed to be the pleasure, you know.
So, munchkining actually takes you to
manage the outcome in a way that's
counterproductive. you're kind of you're
you're meeting the the test um of
performance but you're missing the
point. So you've got to therefore
measure more more things and place a bit
bit of um sort of bulk reliance on
different perspectives on how it's
going. And really people unfortunately
have always um given to past performance
statistics too much credit in terms of
its inferial quality. It doesn't tell
you a huge amount about the future. And
really from that point of view on a
forward-looking dashboard, you want to
know what's going to go on in the
portfolio. And that's not really going
to come from a past performance
statistic. Yes, of course, you're you're
you're at one of the multiple
comparators is performance. And it will
be a performance figure that's a bit
similar to the one you've had before,
but you actually have a bunch of other
figures that are actually giving you a
more full and holistic picture of the
whole. So that is the kind of the big
step forward and really this actually is
starting to be very interesting in terms
of the fact that what I call the guard
rail here which is the measurement
system is actually a gateway to better
practice. So those guard guard rails and
gateways go together. The gateway is
basically look you can actually open up
to a a more sophisticated risk model
than you had before. And I talk quite a
lot about risk 2.0 to zero, which is
basically taking risk wider, which is
which is really about um multiple
circumstances in the the wider
environment. Um taking risk softer,
which is basically seeing the narrative
ahead of the figures and then taking
risk longer, which is about time
horizon. So each of those is actually
playing a part in a fuller risk picture.
>> Love that. So, we've got lots of
different KPIs that are not in
>> lots of KPIs, by the way. Lots of KRIS
keys. Yeah,
>> that's right. And and no one in
particular is is is the silver bullet.
You've got to
>> absolutely balance across all of them.
Which begs the question, you you had
mentioned earlier in one of your
responses that you can't substitute
skill and um skill and the right skills
are going to be absolutely critical for
organizations that that that
successfully move to TPA. What are those
skills? And and I'm asking perhaps
somewhat selfishly as as a as a
representative of the CFA Institute, we
are in the business of trying to equip
the profession with the skills that they
need. Um and so what what are some of
those skills and where's the biggest
gaps from where we are today and where
what skills may be needed to make sure
this this operates effectively?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think as you look at it as
an end to end thing, you've actually got
to start with mindset almost before
skills. So mindset is actually the state
of the mind. You could call it an
investment philosophy or philosophy
generally about the way that the world
works. It's actually captured by this
word beliefs of course. And then really
you start with that type of philosophy.
What it should produce is a bunch of
angles, perspectives, attitudes that
take you into the portfolio construction
itself. And so from that point of view,
when you when you look at it through
that lens, you've really got to have
very very good critical thinking,
systems thinking at the center of this
in order to be able to operate this this
portfolio that is doing heroic things
with respect to all this uncertainty.
Just think about it that way. There's
more uncertainty than ever before.
That's what the great acceleration
teaches us. So from that point of view,
you're doing more to understand what
those uncertainties might lead to.
That's about scenarios. And as a result,
you're creating portfolios that have
more resilience. And that is that the
the very precious skill here is the
ability to say I've actually created a
more resilient
portfolio as in it's more likely to
perform in all weathers but I've also
created an organization
that is prepared and adaptable
when adverse circumstances manifest
themselves in the future. So, so that
resilience is a skill which is bigger
than the one that we've had before. Now,
in in a little bit of work that I've
just put out, um I kind of m made it
clear that really that sense making is a
special thing given all of that
uncertainty.
But on top of the sense making, I think
one of one of the key dimensions of this
is the ability to build your views up by
referencing other people, by drawing
from other people. And so the second
most important element of this is the
ability to build your network and
improve your perspective on what's going
to happen next. Well, that's actually
quite encouraging because as we all have
career anxiety as AI risks replacement
and labor substitution, the things that
come up again and again as the saving
grace for humanity to to put it in
extreme terms is our ability to
interject that human in the loop sense
making thing and also the human
connection and the softer skills
that you mentioned around networks. And
so in many ways this is quite
encouraging this this handinhand with
the disruption that AI will bring about
which I know we talked a lot about last
time but from a skills and future kind
of workforce perspective.
This could well be part of the solution
to the puzzle of making sure that we are
utilized in a way that is additive to
the system and efficient from all
perspectives.
Yeah, I really like the way you've
described that and I think it is
encouraging um at least for the
foreseeable future that investment
professionals can uh really edge in this
direction by being better at
sensemaking,
bridge building, and one more which is
systems navigating. And that one's a
little bit more of a mouthful, but it's
really really important that you've got
individuals who are able to understand
the systems that they reside in. You
reside in a community system, you reside
in an organizational system, you reside
in a national system, you reside in a in
a world orders type system.
Understanding how to work with them and
to navigate through them. Now the big
navigation you have to do is within your
organization in in our industry and that
has become more difficult because our
organizations have become more complex
and they have at times you know
stretched anyone's ability to know quite
what's going on. And so from that point
of view the ability to be situationally
fluent in a system has become a new type
of skill. By the way, whenever you you
sort of use this word system, you're
just conscious that people don't really
like the word. It's it's sort of
associated a lot with technology. But
TPA is a system. I mean, really, the
word system at its basic level is just a
structured clever way of getting
something done. You know, that's what
you need. You need a system. You need a
system for managing money. You need a
system for managing your organization,
etc., etc. That's what a system is. But
it's not quite as simple as that. But
when you actually understand
um some of the background here which is
based on complexity theory and systems
theory, you know that there are a number
of kind of pretty helpful
um theoretical parameters that you can
employ to understand that system better.
And so defining a system in terms of its
elements, its connections and the
purpose it serves gives you a view of
certain patterns. Give you an example of
that. It's a very simple one. What gets
measured gets managed.
That is a perfect expression of what's
going on in a system. You know, wherever
you see measurement, you know, people
follow. And so from that point of view,
you've got to turn that one round and
actually use a measurement system that
actually is right for your particular
goals, which is why I was introducing
that multiple comparisons point.
>> I love it. And actually uh I know you've
been very involved in this. We we at CB
do have some research on this complexity
thinking. Genevie Haymon among many
others and yourself have have really
driven that narrative. Um, and we've got
lots of research that can help point
folks in the right direction to get to
grips with some of these mental models
and and mind shift before getting to the
place of sensemaking, bridge building,
and systems navigation. Um, so with
that, Roger, I think I think we've
covered a lot of the the the key things
we wanted to today. So perhaps just with
one last closing question, I'm going to
ask you if you have to leave our
listeners with a sort of elevator pitch
summary or a one-page mental model of
how TPA
of a model of TPA now that's moved from
idea to operating model or operating
system I should say. What would it be?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad you put in the word
system there. It is a system, right? So
so TPA is a system, right? So so it's
got to be started off in the ideas area.
I talked about mindset, but really the
most important thing here is
understanding the investment world as as
a complex adaptive system with with
behaviors that matter more than we've
given credit. Basically, we've grown up
with MPT being a relatively narrow
discipline. It's based on Newtonian
mechanics. It's not quite happy with
elements that come from the squishy side
of life, the social side of life. So
really from that point of view the
mindset and the thinking has to be
pretty flexible and that um introduces
the need particularly for the attributes
of curiosity and reading people. You
know that was another point on my list
of things that are absolutely crucial
for investors to to work on into the
future. But as you then start with the
mindset um the system the operating
system is really based on the idea that
you don't get anywhere without a way of
working which is set down and
appropriately documented
and streamlined and industrialized
and works in scale. and I'm going to say
normalized to some extent, but all of
those things needed in the process. This
is what we seek in TPA at the moment
because there there aren't perhaps
enough
um early adopters to really make it
clear exactly how those things fit
together. But that's the portfolio
construction side of it. And alongside
that, you've all alongside everything,
it's got to be joined up. It's got to be
joined up with respect to the the
measurement. And the measurement is a
piece that actually we're sort of
evolving a little bit more understanding
that measurement is more subtle than
we've given it credit um because of this
munchkining problem and things like
that. You don't want to be too singular
about it. Alpha is actually a is is a
somewhat counterproductive
measurement. There's nothing wrong with
alpha as a value added concept, but its
measurement is problematic.
And um it's one of those things where I
think people don't recognize enough that
the alpha at any point in time sort of
has has kind of
borrowed or taken something from a
different period, the previous period,
the following period, because it's it's
not a precise uh way of measuring the
progress in a portfolio. It's it's it's
basically a bit like a a sample and
people don't necessarily measure
properly for reasons to do with being
kind of given this feed which is you
we've got all this 100% accurate
information correct. It's got high
provenence but it's got very weak
materiality
so we we can't understand the signals
that come from past performance that
easily and that's actually it kind of
does your head in. It's not easy.
>> It not only does it do your head in
Roger, it actually, and I think this is
partly what's so challenging, it
contradicts the paradigm upon which many
of us were educated. So myself being an
economist by background, it completely
contradicts the catcher parabus all
other things equal. Uh which is why I
think um I'm glad I corrected myself and
you picked up on it too. We're not
talking about a model here. We're
talking about a system. And a model is a
intentionally overly simplified
schematic to help understanding of a
broader complexity. But actually we're
we're we're trying to bring the
complexity back because the complexity
is the key to unlocking what's really
happening. Um and so you have to be able
to spin multiple plates all at the same
time.
>> Perfect. So I've got a phrase for that.
Complicate to understand but simplify to
act is basically what you you've got to
be up for here. So, so really that
therefore does define an operating
system that people follow. They can
actually understand it because it's been
worked on from a sophisticated point of
view, but actually it's been boiled down
to some simple principles here. And then
you the last piece of the operating
system is of course an organization that
is in what I'll call flow. So flow is
really when you've got all the energy
going, when you've got all the cohesion
going, when you got the right type of
behaviors and culture all operating
well. So obviously that's the paragon
that we we all want to have from our
organizations. It's tough, but it's then
that you've got the ability to apply
yourself to the task. Um, which has
clarity and is one of those things where
everyone can agree this is really
worthwhile. You know, this is really
what
drives my passion is the idea that we've
got the opportunity to use
investment thinking in a kind of a new
gen way. I call this gen TPA near
enough. It is really a new generation
thing to be out there producing better
outcomes for for N savers. Now if we
take a a zero sum alpha proposition you
know one one organization's alpha is is
another organization's lost alpha. But
there's so much that is not in that area
where strategic
benefit can come from designing your
portfolio to meet your goals. There's so
much that money that's left on the table
because we haven't really respected
those types of ideas. And by the way, it
is about upside, but I've got to be be
worried as well that it's also about
downside because the need to be
resilient has has has never been bigger.
>> That's right. Well, I think you put it
perfectly when you said complicated to
to define but simple to act. And my hope
is that though still complex, our
viewers at home do feel a little bit
more educated on the topic. I certainly
do and have the confidence now going
forward to act on this and um we will
endeavor to continue to provide with all
of the work that you're doing with
Willist House Watson and also here at
the CFA Institute the body of research
and guidance and frameworks to really
help the investment industry consider
whether or not TPA is right for them and
then if so how to tactically go about
it. So more on that to come soon. Watch
this space. Roger, thank you so much for
your time and uh ideas and sharing them
so generously with us as always. You've
been a pleasure to speak with and I look
forward to our next conversation. Thank
you so much.
>> Yeah, perfect. Thanks very much, Ma.
Really enjoyed it.
