Hello, and good morning, good afternoon, good
evening, wherever you are, wherever you are.
Welcome to another GOTO Unscripted conversation.
My name is Kevlin Henney and I'm here with
Audun Strand.
If you'd like to say something, introduce
yourself.
Sure.
As Kevlin said, my name is Audun Strand.
My title is fundamental of principle engineer,
but I work at NAV, which is basically a big
government agency in Norway.
It's I think in almost every other country.
NAV (Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration)
does what 15 or 16 different organization
does.
So we're big and we say that we support Norwegians
from before they're born till after they're
dead.
So that's kind of the scope.
So that is a full life cycle.
That is full life cycle support.
Your parents get money and if you can't afford
your own funeral, we support that as well.
So it's basically everything you can imagine
doing.
I've been a developer for 15, 16 years, mostly,
I realized, I think when I was working for
six or seven years that the funniest thing
is to solve problems for the developers instead
of...
So basically, I've been taking all my bitterness
as a frustrated back-end developer to make
application platforms and trying to make it
easier for people or developers who make products
to help them instead of trying to figure out
what normal people like because I've never...
I know what developers like.
I don't understand what normal people like.
So in other words, developers as clients.
Yes.
I like that idea that you kind of take the
bitterness that you have got.
I think many people have that and it's just
like, "Yes, but it should be done like this.
This would be a much better way," and actually
turn it into something constructive.
I think that's kind of almost the basis of
a lot of open-source development is just "I've
always wanted this," or "This should be better.
Well, I can do it."
And they do it.
As I understand it, you've been working on
a platform that's open-source itself.
Yes, I started to work on platforms when I
worked at FINN, the former company, which
is Norway's...at least for some ways of measuring,
it's Norway's biggest website, and I made
an application platform there.
Then NAV used to be...we used to think of
it as the worst place, at least in Norway,
to make software.
It was all consultants and they made a strategic
decision not to hire developers.
They only use Accenture and Capgemini and
everything, and architects, of course.
Then they've got this new CTO, and he said,
"We need to in-source and we need to hire
developers."
So my friend Truls was the first one and I
was like the sixth or seventh.
Now we have 400 developers.
So we kind of built everything from inside
a really large...coming through a recession,
we built a new software department.
That's really cool.
The first thing I did was build an application
platform and try to use that as a tool to
make people understand that it can actually
be...first of all, it can have normal, even
good software in the government and the public
sector.
It's kind of cool to work at now.
We open-source it because it's the one thing
that no one can argue about open-sourcing
is basically just its go code talking to Kubernetes
and Docker, so it's not in any state secrets.
We use that to build our brand basically.
The platform is called the NAIS.
We found a funny word first and then we retrofitted
it.
So it means NAV Infrastructure Service or
System.
NAV Application Infrastructure, and you can
choose between service and system because
it doesn't really matter.
Because it doesn't matter.
Because you made up NAIS first.
It's like, "Right, what can we do to fit that?"
That's really interesting.
It's kind of a transformation story because
I think what you described is a common experience
for many people in many different countries,
is the idea that government software is not
the place that you want to work, whereas logically
we should be thinking that that's the place
where we want the highest quality.
If you think about it from a social responsibility
perspective, it's sure they should have the
best software.
There are many other things.
Like, there's really no competition, and the
scope is to have some mainframe stuff, the
old COBOL stuff, and have the strangest Oracle
thing you probably never heard of this.
It's what Oracle had before Oracle and IBM
invented application servers.
The instances of the Java objects live inside
the Oracle database, so it's not like stored
procedures.
I remember that.
To develop this, you have to have your own
instance of Oracle database running on your
own machine, and nobody wants that.
So we have 40-year-old systems that have been
important for Norway for that time.
And to realize I'm never ever going to write
any software that's going to be important
for 40 years.
I understand that's what we're going to replace.
It's both scary, but it's also nice.
So that's really interesting.
I think one of the other things people associate
with government software is, obviously, there's
the whole legacy.
There are systems that date back decades that
we know little about, and yet a lot of people
rely on them.
But also, you're dealing with ridiculous amounts,
and particularly in modern society, and the
kind of the amount of data that is associated
with any individual in any society, you're
dealing with ridiculous amounts of data.
There are all these little domains and you've
got all these different systems, which I'm
presuming don't necessarily talk to each other
comfortably.
I presume we want one view of the data or
to have a coherent data flow.
Yes, very much, not very good connectivity
for that.
The first step was basically just to make
it sustainable to be able to make a system
that is changeable for more than the project.
That, of course, takes a bit of time, because
that means you need to build teams and you
need to build an organization before you start
to build systems.
And then, after that, we tried to build the
system around the domains, as I said, so we
have something for the sickness benefit and
something for the parent key benefits and
age pensions and everything, and then trying
to figure out good ways of making it possible
for these applications and these teams to
change in their own pace but still being able
to communicate in between.
So trying to have the loose coupling, as everybody
talks about, and share just enough but not
too much data.
I think that's one thing that when people
are working within companies that have a single
focus, they might not appreciate.
And likewise, anybody who's worked in a startup
culture where you get to choose your focus.
But here, you're actually dealing with lots
of things that are pulling you in different
directions, and have done for decades before
you were there and long after you were there.
Exactly as you said, this is an interesting
kind of compromise.
You need looseness to allow change.
But you also need to have something that is
together enough.
So giving the migration, the journey that
you've kind of taken on.
You mentioned Kubernetes, you mentioned Docker,
and you mentioned creating the NAIS platform.
You also mentioned actually that NAV covers
traditionally what in other governments will
be 15 or 16 departments.
That's a lot of...I don't know, is there a
term for it, domain share.
It's just one unified view.
There isn't one unified.
There isn't a single coherent model for everything.
No, no, there used to be, because that was
the old way of doing it.
People realized that doesn't really work because
it kind of blocks everything.
There's this old saying that...I don't remember
the English one, "When two people live together,
then they're not married."
In Norwegian, I don't know what that means
in English.
Anyway, people say there are, 14 different
definitions of that word in our systems.
The funny thing is that they think, "Well,
then we need one definition."
Then we come in and say, "Well, we don't because
it means 14 different things."
So instead we need to understand that it means
14 different things.
And whenever two systems talk together and
have a different understanding of that term,
then they need to figure out what it means.
But to try to make this big model of one specific
meaning of every word is almost impossible,
and they're as big as we are.
I think that's a kind of...there's an interesting
collision between what we desire, particularly
from a developer perspective"Wouldn't it be
nice if everything could be...you know, we
can have one definition of this?"
And what the real world does.
I think even in the real world, we're not
very good at acknowledging this, that there
are actually...that words have context and
specific meaning, and they also drift and
change in their own way.
Yes..
Because it feels like common sense to have
one specific definition.
But if you take that over time and say, "I'm
going to keep that model over 10 years, and
everything is going to change at different
paces."
It's almost impossible to keep that.
I think I first experienced that trying to
talk to somebody about kind of a domain model,
actually, it was an entity model, specifically
what they refer to it in a medical environment
in the 1990s.
What does patient mean?
And it turns out, that different parts of
the medical space have different meanings
and different information requirements for
the word patient.
That's just what most people think of as one
domain, and actually, it has multiple subdomains.
The minute you move outside that, then suddenly
you get all of these difficulties.
So I think that kind of takes us into the
era of domain-driven design, which I know
that's something you're interested in.
And it seems to really apply here.
Yeah, definitely, I think I've spoken about
it.
I think it's chapter 14 in the big blue book
about strategic design and how we can have
different models connecting and customer supply
and everything.
I'm trying to explain that too, for instance,
the legal experts.
Because another funny thing...because everything
we do is kind of grounded in the law, so the
benefits are different chapters in the law.
There's the same thing there.
It's reuse.
So the parental benefit and the sickness benefit
points to the same chapter saying we're going
to calculate the amount from this.
Then everybody says, "Well, then this has
to be some common service, of course, because
it's the same chapter."
And then when you try to implement it, we
see that "Well, it doesn't."
But it feels like the law has if statements.
So we easily figure it's not exactly the same.
The contexts are extremely different, because
parental benefits, that's something you enjoy.
That's a good thing that happens to you, and
the sickness benefit, it's something bad that
happens to you.
So trying to make that into one system doesn't
really make sense, even though it shares the
same chapter of the law book.
So trying to...and that's kind of the domain-driven
design kind of gone further because it's not
enough to think about the technical side but
you have to think about the legal side and
the communication side and everything.
I think that's an interesting one because
you mentioned of "The Bluebook", you know,
it's the strategic design chapter, which it's...Eric,
said, "That's the bit that people always ignored."
A lot of people never got that far into the
book.
And yet, I think in recent years, it's an
area...people normally grab onto the early
part of the book, and the patterns in the
book seem very intuitive from a developer
perspective.
But this other stuff seemed is not immediately
obvious.
But things like bounded context have become
very popular in recent years, and this idea
of saying, "Well, actually, we don't have
to have a uniform..."
Although we use the term ubiquitous language,
it's not actually uniform and universal, it's
the idea of little local subdomains.
And as you say, in law, it is... the law has
a lot of subtleties to it, speaking as a developer,
and I've read a couple of things in law and
no shortage of legal documents.
I'm always surprised at how loose they seem
compared to code.
It's quite interesting.
You get used to code.
And people say, "Oh, legal documents are so
boring."
It's just, like, have you tried reading code?
Legal documentation is actually surprisingly
imprecise, or they rely on a lot of contexts
that are unspoken.
I think it's also because the code is not...at
least, normally, it's much faster to change.
It's probably a good thing that laws take
a bit of time to kind of evolve.
It's easy to change the code.
But that's why they think they can't define
everything, because when the world changed,
when there's a pandemic, or whatever, they
have to change everything, and that's too
slow of a process.
That kind of sets us up with the kind of really
interesting thing that you've got a number
of different teams.
You've got a number of different teams, a
number of different software requirements,
and dividing them.
That kind of leads to very different data
flows, and different applications, but at
the same time, you're still trying to get
something coherent.
How does the data look at the back-end?
How are you organizing that?
Because you're talking about there's COBOL,
there's Oracle, there's...
Almost all the new stuff we write is Kotlin
and JVM.
For communication parts, I would say we kind
of divide at NAV to what we call product areas,
which is we have about 10 I think.
We might have 15 when we're done, or not done,
but then we kind of reached our limit.
Then we try to say that between those, we
should have asynchronous communication streams,
so we use Kafka, but that doesn't really matter.
So you should communicate events and then
you should listen to events and that kind
of makes it easier to achieve the loose coupling
and easier to evolve differently.
That makes the teams, at least some of the
teams, that make our most complicated systems
become more event-driven as well.
And that's really good.
My experience is that when you go from a monolithic
approach to microservices, and until you kind
of realize that you need to be asynchronous,
you won't get all the benefits of dividing
up and making microservices.
So I think that's kind of an interesting one
because I think people often overlook the
fact that synchronous is coupling in time,
whereas, people often look at coupling as
a very immediate, "This box depends on this
box.
This service depends on this, or this class
depends on this."
And they think of it as a very immediate thing,
whereas actually, there's a temporal, there's
a coupling in time, and asynchrony allows
you to just let the parts move at a slightly
different rate and execute at a different
rate.
When you kind of go from events to streams.
So we have the Kafka streams where we have
the events stored for some time.
We can play them back as well.
And then, you realize you kind of have a superpower
because then you can...when you have immutable
data, so you can always understand that what
I read is never going to change.
When you play everything back, you can kind
of...you can change some rules and you can
play back and you can get a new reality afterward,
and then that makes it even better to be asynchronous.
So that's kind of interesting, because, in
other words, you get to manipulate time, which
I think is everybody's kind of fantasy.
"If only I could be a time lord."
But there's another interesting thing.
From the traditional perspective, there's
a kind of an inversion of dependencies, and
I mean that in the deepest sense as opposed
to the way that people often mean it, but
often when people have organized large systems,
they have looked at it in terms of we are
organizing it around the services, and the
services are the first-class concept, or they've
organized it around the entities, which goes
back to our problem with, you know, how do
we have a unified entity model.
But here we're saying actually, no, events
are the first-class citizen, and then we hang
everything off that.
So as long as we have a truth about events,
then actually we can actually loosen how we
build the applications.
We had a guy called Fred George.
He calls himself the grandfather of microservices.
I will say I first learned about microservices
by attending a Fred George talk.
Yes, me too.
He has this actually, this is a GOTO conference.
And it started because me and my colleague,
we wanted to go to Noma, which was the best
restaurant in the world in Copenhagen.
Of course, we were working at software companies.
We tried to find a conference that made it
possible for us to go to Copenhagen.
Another version of dependencies.
Yeah, we want this restaurant.
What conference will allow us to go to that
restaurant?
Then we went to GOTO in Copenhagen, and we
had Fred George's microservice workshop.
Actually, and I didn't realize this till,
after this, Eric Evans was a participant in
that workshop.
But in that workshop, which I think is the
best workshop I've ever done, because you
get to code, six hours out of an eight-hour
workshop on actual problems, not just fill
in these tests, but you get to solve problems.
He has this pattern, which he calls Rapids
and Rivers, which is basically a way of organizing
microservices that makes it easy for developers
to think asynchronously.
So what you do is you have...every single
service publishes an event on the same topic.
Then that's the rapid.
Rapid is the big thing where everything flows.
And then the services create rivers, which
are basically filtered views of the rapid.
So you get a tiny bit of the event flow into
our service and then do something and then
we put it back on the rapid.
That's basically the core pattern of almost
all the new systems we build now.
It kind of cheats, it makes a shared database
that works inside the domain, and also, it
takes away the doubt developers feel, "Should
I be asynchronous or should I be synchronous?"
Because it's natural to do it asynchronously.
So everything kind of turns into events.
Then you get the benefits of it without people
thinking, "Well, this is probably synchronous,"
and then you stop and then you start doing
it differently.
Well, I think there's a really interesting
metaphor, again, with the whole thing to do
with.
It's rivers, that's basically the right rapid.
Everything that happens goes there.Then the
rivers are the read layer for everyone.
Then ultimately, the storage is in the ponds.
People were talking about data lakes.
So this is a kind of interesting idea the
persistence is in ponds, which are smaller
and local.
You maybe have a pond per microservice, so
to speak, rather than this lake of a single,
coherent, and centrally-managed data model.
And it's so easy to keep separation of concerns.
If you want to add observability, you just
add another service that listens to all events
on the rapid and does it separately.
You can really add logic where it belongs,
although the problem might be that you get
too many services and it'd be difficult to
see, then you just add another service to
add observability, and then you can see again,
that it's…
So it's very composable by having these separations
and actually saying that if we're allowed
to loosen time a little bit, that it allows
all of these possibilities and I think that's
quite an interesting kind of observation.
And I hadn't come across this one too recently
and didn't realize that it actually goes back
to when I first saw Fred George just after
when I first saw him.
He was talking about programmer anarchy, about
the way he organized teams.
That's where I first encountered microservices,
and that's like 2012.
And he had a very strict definition of how
he thought about microservices.
And he did do it on size.
We seemed to have given up the...I think people
have given up the idea of...
You know, it's just like, you know, we ask
people.
It's like, "Well, why are they micro?"
Well, let me show you this micro.
That's not micro in my book.
The only reason we can't call them services,
is because then you go back to, this whole
thing.
Except that, I think modern services are now
bigger than the stuff that we had under...
So we should probably just call them services.
Time is cyclic.
I think that that's sort of an interesting
observation there.
And I hadn't realized that there was this
broader view.
How does that relate to things?
I don't know, because this idea of having
different read and write sources, introducing
a little bit of asynchronicity to allow the
kind of like...the parts to move more freely.
This is sort of on a parallel brush, CQRS.
They seemed to have a kind of a shared goal
if you like.
They have very different histories, but they
appear to have this kind of shared goal.
How would you compare them?
I kind of agree.
We've never really had CQRS as a big thing
because it kind of comes almost...
Well, a few of our teams managed to think
more like that because they have the big...some
of them have really big microservices where
they kind of modeled the lower part where
they had the model kind of, and a whole person's
sickness history to be able to, and that becomes
quite a big object-oriented model.
There, they try to have the CQRS.
So they have kind of the events and the commands
coming in.
It feels, at least from my perspective, it
feels less like something that's on the developer's
minds than it used to be
It was interesting because that's...I think
that one is more...I found originally that
was more intuitive because it was closer to
something that I had done, but it was not
exactly the same, and seeing this rapids,
rivers, ponds kind of approach, I thought,
"Ah, that's a really interesting, different
way of looking at it."
So the teams don't really do that much.
For multiple reasons.
They live within it, as it were.
In other words, the architecture is around
them.
So in that sense, it seems more like that
when we normally talk about architecture,
people like to use building metaphors.
But this feels much more like urban architecture.
The developers stay in their own houses and
they do what they want in their own houses.
But how the streets and the services are organized,
that's really what you're talking about at
that level.
Audun Strand:I think it's important too when
you have this Kafka topic that you just keep
the idea of what data on the inside versus
with data on the outside.
So the rapid is only for one domain.
It's for one team, for one thing, and then
if you want to share data with others, you
need to make a different topic.
And at least before I had the really bad problems
where people thought that every event was
available to everybody.
So we kind of forgot everything about public
and private, and just because it was an event
and the service, it doesn't mean you can't...you
still have to keep your boundaries.
Again, there's this really interesting tension,
isn't there?
There's this kind of idea, but yeah we still
have to have some separations, but at the
same time, we want to get rid of separations.
And these two are pulling in opposite directions.
So I think software architecture...
When there are different teams you have to
change slower than when you're just exchanging
data with the guy sitting next to you.
It seems like gear matching in manual-driven
cars, cutting it just right.
So I think that's an interesting kind of way
of looking at it.
We kind of take the big picture.
Now, you mentioned a couple of technologies.
You also mentioned a couple of programming
languages.
So you mentioned that the NAIS platform is
being developed in Go, but you also mentioned
from...I think the application developers
are using primarily Kotlin.
So you've got to kind of Go lower level, and
then the JVM up a level but with a bias towards
Kotlin.
Just out of interest, what informs those decisions?
That's a good question.
I think from a platform perspective, Go has
the best libraries I think, at least had four
years ago when they started doing this and
then it kind of grew from there.
Kubernetes is made in Go.
Docker is made in Go, so it was easy to start
building that in Go and it also feels.
I don't know if you've written those before,
but I find Go to be a frustrating language
to write and a good language to read.
I don't have deep experience.
I consider myself a Go tourist.
There is a certain frustration because the
language has certain limitations in certain
cases.
And familiar as I am with lots of language
models, it's kind of, like, "Oh, I wouldn't
have put that limitation there."
But that readability thing does make a difference.
So it feels like...
Well, at least in the start, we thought that
maybe the application platform would be slower
moving, but it turns out that because the
team is very good, they can also manage to
move very quickly.
Then, from the application side, we normally
say that we have...the language we have the
most code in is Java, but we write most Kotlin.
And I never, at least from my...I've never
learned a language as quickly as I did when
I went from Java.
The bitterness comes from Java.
Okay, that we completed the story.
Where did the bitterness come from?
Now, I understand.
And then to go on to Kotlin was quite as an
easy transformation I've ever had I think
going from one programming language to another.
So it's kind of interesting because I know
a number of people who...their reason for
looking at Kotlin is Androids, but that's
not the reason here.
No, no, we have no native apps at all.
I can't totally figure out who started.
But it became a movement, I think, and we
really...one of our philosophies when it comes
to technology choices in NAV is that everything
is allowed, as long as you broadcast it to
the company.
So we have our own internal technology radar
to kind of persist all those tracers and make
it available for all the teams to see.
So it started out in some corners and people
saw that this actually works.
And then some libraries, the library we built
around rapid observers is Kotlin, so it kind
of...it grew from there.
But we still allow a few people to write Spring
and Java as well.
Just to keep them on board.
Yes.
So there's an interesting thing here.
Let me just pick up on the kind of the theme
of...it just occurred to me.
So, in that case, this idea of building a
developer culture.
And also that NAIS is open-source.
There's a lot of this idea of like, "Well,
you know, as long as you broadcast, as long
as you make this information available," and
that seems to be a very...again, it's another
inversion of how sometimes people try and
get things done.
In other words, .it's not a sort of a command
and control.
It's very much a ground-up kind of approach.
And I guess leading by example, "Here's the
thing I've built."
That team is using this, and you can see the
examples there, which kind of makes.
I wish more organizations would be aware of
that, but it's very interesting to hear it
from within a government organization.
I think we managed to build a really good
culture around that because it kind of...it
makes it seem responsible as well.
We respect the fact that they know best what
tools they can use, or what they say they
can use.
But also, we need to be able to see what we're
doing.
Before we had a big problem with shadow IT
where people used stuff but nobody said anything,
specifically for government organizations.
We can't use stuff without paying for it.
When it's in the shadows, no one will say,
"I'm using it," so no one will pay for it.
So to be able to get everything out in the
light, it helps us also to follow the regulations.
As I keep saying to people, software developers
should be the first ones to voluntarily pay
for software they use because it's basically
it's our business.
Right now, we don't work for a tools company,
but you might sometime later, and then it's
good to be able to know I paid for the stuff
I used before.
That's an interesting one.
But also the point you make about shadow IT
I think it's very common in a lot of government-related
work.
And I know somebody who worked, I don't know
which bit of the Norwegian government, but
it was many years ago.
So definitely, you know, it was in the 2000s.
It was interesting hearing what they described
as what they're supposed to be doing what
they're actually doing to work around what
they're supposed to be doing.
In other words, a lot of games rather than
something that was spoken.
I think, before we had the tech radar, we
had this list of allowed technologists, and
I think you had some version on there, at
least four years after everybody started using
it.
And that kind of shows it's almost impossible
to have such a list centrally managed and
up to date.
So they're saying, "That's not possible.
It's better for you to do your own choices
and broadcast it and it actually scales."
Again, interesting enough, it goes back to
this idea of the cost of centralized locking.
It's the same in development as it is in the
runtime, that there is a huge cost to try
and keep everything synchronous.
So the scale that you're talking about, is
asynchronicity both in execution but also
actually in terms of how teams evolve and
are organized.
Now, one other area, which I think is interesting,
and I mentioned in the past is data mesh stuff,
because that's a kind of a more recent trend.
Again, it seems to fit with everything that
you're saying, the idea that perhaps we don't
try and have a single source of truth that
is a physical single source of truth, that
actually what we should...I guess data mesh
is for data as microservices are to model
lists.
The first time I read the article on martinfowler.com
I thought, "Well, this is basically someone
that managed to articulate their domain-driven-design
thinking but with analytical data in mind."
Then I spent almost a year being frustrated,
for reasons which I now understand more.
All the data, people can see that.
For me, it was very clear.
Well, this basically summarized what I've
been doing in the application space for 5
to 10 years.
Someone has actually explained to you how
it works in data.
It's a bigger change for them because they're
very tool-driven, this very monolithic, the
central data warehouse is like...you can't
be more monolithic than that, I think.
So to be able to find ways to explain and
maneuver our organization into thinking more
about splitting their ownership and taking
the analytical creativity, and the analytical
minds into the teams so that they're closer
to where the data originates so they stop
being frustrated because the thing that gets
data up to date but doesn't work because the
database is changing.
Before we had like a few really, really big
databases that changed four times a year,
and being the central database team, it was
difficult already then.
But now, we have 2000 databases under change
daily.
It's almost impossible to follow through.
So trying to make everybody think and understand,
how should we think about getting the analytical
data and the data products now when architectural
applications are changing?
I think that's a really interesting way of
looking, but you also highlight something
else.
There's a difference in sometimes cultures.
In other words, you talked about the sort
of the data people, and we had the application
people, and they pull in slightly different
directions, and there are these different
movements within each.
It's like the data world is kind of catching
up.
We rely so heavily on data.
The modern government relies on data.
All the things we can get out of these analytical
minds and what they think about when they
decide on data models and understand other
uses of data than just defecting something
from an API and comparing it and throwing
it away, but to understand that the data is
actually even more valuable than the codes
most of the time.
Yes, indeed, I think that's one of those things
that we always recognize, but, ultimately,
it's the data that will outlive all the applications.
I think in the past, that has meant that people
have become complacent and they've assumed
that because of that, they won't touch the
data, or we can't change the schema, we can't
do anything new.
The data's on a different geological period.
The applications move at this speed and then
everything else moves much more slowly.
This is really kind of like bringing data
in at the same speed.
Because there's so much value as well, and
trying to figure out...
Sometimes we have been able to build the teams
where the developer or the application developers
and the data engineers and analytical people
have worked in the same team and to see the
value they get from when the team wonders
about should I do this, or should I do that.
They can just do some SQL magic and then two
seconds later, he knows well, 45% of it is
this and 35% is this, so you should do this.
And to have that ability really causes real
development.
So again, there's a kind of interesting thing
here about time and turnaround time, and responsiveness,
but also, at the same time, loosen the coupling,
allow so I presume that looking to the future,
that you're anticipating that NAV was gonna
continue growing, but also, it's kind of the
software perspective.
That they're also all of the products that
you're dealing with are also gonna be growing.
Well, we still have over four biggest legacy
systems.
We only really managed to modernize most of
one of them.
We started in the second one and then we have
slight plans for the third one and really
no plans at all for the fourth one yet.
We have loads of modernization.
Well, I'm looking forward to what happens
when we're kind of done with the modernization
when we get to proper software products that
can evolve with its contents.
For instance, just having analysis and feedback
going back to the people making the law.
We have a really cool thing now where we managed
to, in the code, that evaluates a case, it
connects it to the different paragraphs and
the different sentences in the law, and actually
puts it into the...actually, it puts each
evaluation of a sentence on a Kafka topic
and presents it to another database.
So we can do an analysis by saying, "Well,
these two sentences in the law always go the
same way at the same time.
So maybe we don't need both.
Maybe we may take one away, or..."
This is never evaluated at all.
So being able to really get data-driven on
how to make laws.
That's really interesting.
Observability for the legal system.
I had not thought about that.
Then we can do simulations that politicians
are gonna say, "Well, what happens if we do
this," well, at least someone in the future
will say, "Well, if we did this five years
ago, this would have been the consequences,"
at least for the one part of the system.
It gets back to this idea of replaying time.
Just what are the consequences of doing that?
That's incredibly powerful.
That’s a feedback loop that many people
probably wouldn't even imagine having.
I think that the point there is that the fact
that is now a possibility is itself exciting.
So that's what kind of drives us on.
We just need to finish all this, get away
from all these mainframes and Oracle systems
and try to get evolvable software that can
change.
But I think that was that idea that information
should be as...you should be able to have
the information that you need, rather than...
I think a phrase that I found myself using
a lot is that we spend a lot of time programming
in the past.
In other words, you know, we might be sitting
there going like, "Here's the code I see in
my ID," but actually, when I look at the code,
it's actually 5 years old, 10 years old, 20
years old.
I'm talking to a database that is maybe 30
or 40 years old, or that, you know...
Although we think of ourselves as programming
in the present, actually a lot of the things
are the decisions that are in the past and
not necessarily the ones we want today.
And we feel powerless to change them.
But, at the same time, we always try to think
of the code we have now as the code that survived,
and for a reason.
So legacy, in our terms, normally is kind
of a bad word.
But in normal English, at least legacy is
a good thing.
So we always try to focus on the fact that
this system has been important for 40 years.
That's a good thing.
We need to change it now, but that doesn't
mean it's been bad for 40 years.
It's been really good and it's built the world's
best welfare state.
So to be able to treat it with respect at
the same time they're saying, "Well, now we
need to change them because now we have other
options."
I think that's a very interesting way of looking
because we do.
Legacy is a funny word, where it's gotten
used.
I discovered a Twitter comment and then I
sort of started digging around, I quite like
language.
So I actually dug into the Oxford English
Dictionary.
And the earliest citation for using legacy
in reference to software was 1989, which actually
feels more recent, but in language terms,
it feels very recent.
What I found actually fascinating is that
it got taken up very, very quickly, because
it clearly fulfilled a need.
Then we've also got this other use of the
word.
In other words, that legacy we'd like to think
of as positive, but it isn't always.
But I think one of the more interesting things
is: Legacy code has a history, which means
you can tell something about, which you can't
tell about new code.
This is a new code.
We don't yet know how good it is or, you know,
how relevant it is.
Does it solve the right problem?
Right.
Does it solve the right problem, or if we
solved the problem in our head, or the one
in the world, which, you know, I think a lot
of developers might be guilty of, and I know
I have been.
But that idea of the...this idea, it has a
history that we can actually go and look at
and go, "Actually this is useful, or actually
it hasn't been useful for a while.
We just haven't noticed, whereas new code
is experimental and should be experimental."
We should be allowed to throw it away.
Yes, because that's our superpower.
We can change software on a whim.
I remember reading an interview with one of
the guys who worked at NAV from the very beginning.
He was retiring for years, actually, basically
working 40 years on the same system.
And he kind of divided everything into decades.
The first decade was quite good.
And then the second decade came and then some
politicians say it's bad, but the second was
better again.
And just to have that time span of understanding
how the system you work on affects the real
world and the other way around.
I think it's sometimes when people properly
appreciate software architecture and development
organizations, they start talking, "Oh, yeah,
it's a socio-technical system," and you start
to see it with these kinds of long views.
But I think that idea, as you say, is the
idea that in software development, we have
a superpower.
Sometimes we don't use it.
You know, that software should be soft.
We should be able to change it and we should
be able to do so as quickly as possible.
We should also be able to understand it in
a bigger historical context.
And that would be...you know, it's a superpower
in that sense if we get it right.
Outro
So I'm gonna bring this discussion to a close.
We've kind of covered a remarkable amount
of space.
What kind of things that you think are interesting
from a personal perspective, but also, in
the context of NAV and NAIS.
Over the next few years, where you kind of...you've
already mentioned a couple of things you're
kind of looking forward to.
One thing we're working on right now is continuing
our migration to the cloud and trying to do
that in a way that actually makes everything
better and cheaper and everything.
And another really interesting thing about
me and a colleague has been working on lately
is to try to balance the creative autonomy
of teams with kind of the large-scale efficiency
alignment to try to figure out a way to control
the teams without actually making them feel
like they're being controlled.
Control without control.
Yes, and we've been working quite a lot.
Technology radar is one example of one technique
you can use to do that.
And then we have some other techniques where
we try to balance the normative and the descriptive
parts somewhat.
We spend some time saying, "This is a good
way of doing stuff."
And at the same time saying, "But you can
choose yourself.
Everything is allowed if broadcast it."
And trying to find that balance so that a
system of teams that are more than 100 can
both be similar, but also tried to figure
out what's the best way of moving forward,
because we don't want to create a new system
that's impossible to change because it's 40
years old.
It has to keep being changeable.
Yeah, you don't want to create somebody else's
bad story.
That's brilliant.
Thank you very much, Audun.
Thank you.
