[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to MBA Ask
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with the
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Meridian Link's Mitchell Swanson,
associate manager of product management
for part one of our new series with
Meridian Link. Our discussion today is
on AI and automation and how these tools
are speeding up the mortgage origination
process. Mitchell, thank you for joining
us today.
>> Thank you, Adam. It's a pleasure.
>> Let's kick it off. Everybody these days
is talking about artificial
intelligence, you know, AI. What role is
AI and automation currently playing in
the mortgage industry and how can users
ensure they are staying compliant at the
federal and state level?
>> Yeah, that's a great great question,
Adam. And you know that latter part
about staying compliant is is very
important. Uh we all know that AI is
quickly becoming table stakes here in
the mortgage industry. Uh the
efficiencies that it has behind it are
just endless. Um, and for anyone that's
been on the borrowing side of a mortgage
application, you know how slow and
arduous it can be. And for those of you
who have been on the lending side of an
application, you know how many manual
processes there are to get a mortgage
application across, right? I have to
click here, click there, move this, do
that. Uh, and that's really where we see
AI, you know, playing its role. It's
going in and allowing your users to do
their primary function, right? Allowing
your lenders, your loan officers to
sell, your processors to process, and
your underwriters to underwrite so that
they don't have to focus on all of those
manual processes.
Okay? And you know those AI pieces are
not going to happen overnight, right? If
I take an example from the auto
industry, okay, with self-driving cars,
it's been something that has been
building up for decades, right? First
they came out with cruise control, then
adaptive cruise control, then lane keep,
and then, you know, all the way up to
fully autonomous driving. But it's the
trust factor that's very important,
right? Um, not everybody trusts
self-driving cars, just like not
everybody's going to trust AI with
mortgages. And you know, here at
Meridian Link, we see that and we
understand how important it is to have
trust and consistency with your AI
automations, right? So as we are
building tools uh to cut those processes
down and allow your lenders to do their
primary functions right we are keeping
in mind the trust factor right but we
also get that you know
a lot of lenders can't spend time taking
decades to get AI fully into their
systems okay and um to to kind of allow
us to go faster and keep up with that
pace of change. We're allowing other AI
tech companies to integrate to our
products so that our customers can
choose from the best of the best, right?
They have the tools at their disposal to
be able to keep up with the pace of
change and that's very important. And
one piece that I'll circle back to is
the compliance side of this, right? And
that's very important. Um, as we've seen
just this year, a judge in Massachusetts
ruled against a tech company who were
was using AI to automatically decision
loans. They found that the AI was
actually doing uh some things against
fair lending laws. And that's a big no
no. And here I'm writing like we do not
want to fall into that same trap. So
we're committed to making sure that we
keep the human in the loop, right? We
want the underwriter to be the one
underwriting. We just want AI to be the
helper, right? Remove those manual
processes, get those out of the way so
that they can do their primary function.
And I AI is just a tool to help get that
done quicker, faster, and easier. So,
you know, just like the auto industry,
we're not at fully self-driving cars
everywhere on the road. You know, fully
self-funding mortgages is way down in
the future. It's a possible future. Uh
but you know we have a long ways ahead
before we get to there.
>> I love that breakdown there and the
analogy with the cars Mitchell. Um
closing loans faster is obviously a
winning recipe for success and as you
mentioned compliance is also very
important. So what about Meridian Link's
mortgage access? What measurable impacts
have you seen on borrower conversion
rates and time to close? Yeah. So, m
mortgage access is a point of sale that
we've taken the angle of trying to be as
simple as possible, right? We want
consumers to get to the application and
just be able to breeze through it
quickly and easily, right? Not only
that, but it's fully branded to the
lender. They can change its colors, the
fonts, they can add their logos. Even
the URL can be the same as the lender's
URL. So that when an applicant goes to
the lender's website and then navigates
to our application, it's very seamless
and we're actually seeing an average of
77% of applications started complete.
Right? So that's an average 77%
conversion rate and we actually have one
lender who has 93% conversion rate. So
93% of their apps are finishing. And so
if you think about the funnel of, you
know, more apps in, more loans funded at
the bottom, that's a great way uh to to
increase revenue for the business. And
um the next cool feature about mortgage
access is we have a built-in rules
engine. So as that loan gets submitted,
that rules engine is reviewing the loan
data to pre-request documents from that
borrower. So for example, someone's has
social security income, right? Mortgage
access will request that social security
awards letter upfront amongst other
things. So that when the processor and
the loan officer get to that loan in
Murangling Mortgage, there is a list of
documents already collected by the
borrower. So that kind of helps shorten
funding down using automation, okay, to
get the documents upfront.
So once those documents are collected,
we have a tight integration with Marine
Link Mortgage in order to um collect
those documents faster. And so when a
processor is in a loan reviewing a
document, let's say they're reviewing
bank statements and it's missing one of
the pages. Well, we have an accept
reject functionality. So a processor can
reject it in mering lake mortgage which
will automatically trigger it in MA in
mortgage access send an email to the
borrower to try again. Right? And this
is where um we kind of separate
ourselves where now the borrower can see
typed in personalized message as to why
this document was rejected so that they
can give you what you really really
need. Okay. Um, so that just really
makes the user experience seamless. And
not only that, but this is a place where
AI can really help in. Okay, so instead
of that processor going in and manually
reviewing, recepting, rejecting these
documents, AI could do that instantly.
So now we have instant feedback to try
and bring that time to fund down. And
that plays in part with some of the
volume challenges that a lot of lenders
have.
So, you know, as I think back when I was
working for a bank back in 2013 where
interest rates were low and volumes were
high, you know, our turn times were 60
to 90 days, right? We didn't have enough
manpower to keep up with all of the apps
that we had. And you know, this kind of
underlines
why it's so important to have AI because
it takes so many manual processes to do
these loans, right?
If we can physically see turn times
increase with volumes that just points
out directly we need more help right we
need to have more automations more
things go happen faster quickly easier
and that's AI's biggest proponent right
AI can fit in cut those things down and
allow lenders to scale with the volume
so they can provide a consistent level
of service whether it's high volumes or
low volumes. And so I'm really really
excited about, you know, the pace of
change with AI and how Meridian Link is
building these tools to allow lenders to
succeed in the future.
>> Those are fantastic points and as you
can see, if we if mortgage rates do
start to decrease a little bit more and
you start to see that increase in
demand, you can really see how AI would
pick up and be very useful there um for
that. I've really enjoyed talking to you
today, Mitchell. I appreciate you
chatting with me this important topic.
Um let's do it again soon. Thank you for
joining us.
>> Thanks, Adam.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
