Thank you and welcome. We're very
excited you're here today. Uh these
videos we put together for our private
funds investor day and we thought we'd
showcase a few of them for you so you
have a better sense of the types of
opportunities we're investing in. Uh
what drives these opportunities and why
we find them attractive. So I hope
you're enjoying them. I want to spend a
few minutes going deeper into some of
the themes that Connor talked about um
especially around the growth of our
business and put some numbers behind
this. Connor has been clear that we
expect to double the size of the
business over the next five years. But I
think it's important that we're also
clear why we have the confidence to
deliver this and the main reason is
because we've done it before repeatedly.
We have strong results, consistently
strong results on the backs of
significant growth expectations.
And these goals were realistic because
the drivers of our business, strong
investor demand, opportunity set,
actually a large opportunity set that
fits our areas of expertise,
competitive advantages that Connor
outlined, and above all else, our
disciplined approach to protecting our
performance.
So if you go back five years,
this is when we laid out our five-year
plan, similar today, doubling the size
of the business. And at that point, we
had 277 billion of fee bearing capital
growing to $510 billion.
Fee related earnings or FRE was 1.3
billion, expected to grow to 2.6
billion, doubling. Now, these goals may
have seemed ambitious, but they were
grounded in a broad-based, thoughtful
plan where we're going to expand our
strategies
and continue to grow our business with a
leadership position across all of our
businesses.
So, how'd we do? Let's check the report
card, I guess. Um, as you can see, not
only did we meet expectations, but we
exceeded expectations.
Today we have 563 billion of fee bearing
capital. That's a 200 basis point
outperformance.
Fee related earnings is 2.7 billion. Now
this period of time was interesting. Uh
it was dominated by uncertainty. But we
knew that we could deliver on this plan
because the underlying fundamentals of
our business and especially the
diversification across all of our
businesses.
So how did we do it?
Flagships are the cornerstone of our
business. You've heard us say this
before. They are where we house our
operating skills, our asset knowledge,
our sourcing capabilities, and above all
else, 125 years of learning lessons as
we've been investing. So, if you go back
to 2020, we had four strategies, real
estate, private equity, credit, and
infrastructure.
And that round generated about 53
billion of fee bearing capital. Today
that round is 93 billion 75% growth. And
if you exclude our global transition
fund which is on its second vintage and
launched since 2020 that's about 30
plus% growth on a same store basis.
Bottom line, investors have shown a
willingness to continue to commit round
after round because of the performance
of our fund, the quality, and the return
of capital on an attractive riskadjusted
return basis.
But the flagships do more than just
scale and repeat. They're the launching
pad for complimentary strategies, both
equity and credit. So let's go back to
2020. We had about 14 billion of fee
bearing capital. That made up about 20%
of our fundraising at that time. Fast
forward today, 74 billion, five times
growth.
So some of the strategies that existed
behind these numbers, our financial
infrastructure fund, our real estate
solution strategy, our infrastructure
debt fund, and these continue to scale
up. We've also expanded our platform.
Wealth Solutions is the perfect example
here where we're growing that in a quick
pace.
Now the last part is the evolution of
credit. So again let's return to 2020.
We had just invested in Oak Tree. Uh we
about we had about a 100red billion of
fee bearing capital and today that's 250
billion
130% increase.
What's more is the composition of our
credit capabilities. We've expanded and
diversified into our core competencies,
asset back finance,
real assets such as infrastructure and
real estate where we dominate on the
equity side and opportunistic credit.
And our partner managers, best-in-class
partner managers have helped us expand
our capabilities here.
But above all else, the major theme of
our credit business is to stick to what
we know, invest only when we see a
distinct advantage,
and make sure that we're returning the
appropriate riskadjusted returns to our
investors.
Now, fundraising obviously supports all
of this growth that I've just outlined.
In the past five years, we raised 450
billion. That's a big number. And when
we think about that, we've been able to
broaden and deepen our relationships
with the institutional market. That's
grown 25% to 2500.
And those new clients make up about 20%
of our institutional fund raise. Many of
our clients have increased the size of
their tickets and allocating amongst
more of our strategies.
But the step change came in private
wealth. This has been a big change for
us. We went from really starting from
scratch to 60,000 clients and growing
quickly.
Now, finally, we've got Brookfield
Wealth Solutions.
And when you look at that, we've managed
about 100 billion of fee bearing
capital. And behind that is 800,000
annuity policies. So given this growth
and diversification,
you can see that our business is more
durable and more stable from a
fundraising perspective regardless of
the market environment.
So now all in we've further strengthened
our franchise, deepened the pools of
fundraising and offered more products
uh they're tailored to our investors.
And this formula has worked for us for
for generating long-term growth.
In fact, if we look back 15% growth
rate, flagships generated about 100
billion. We had about 160 billion coming
coming from complimentary strategies.
Another 100 billion coming from
insurance solutions. Finally returning
133 billion back to our clients.
So this shows you why we're confident
that we can deliver the next doubling of
our business.
And in fact, we're off to a great start.
If you go through the past 12 months,
we've raised 97 billion. We've deployed
135 billion and into the some of the
most significant transactions we've done
at Brookfield. Colonial Pipeline, Jim's
Education, Divvy, Duke Energy.
These investments highlight the scale of
capital we can raise, but also the
opportunity set that we can only access.
Now, monetizations are an critical part
of our business. This is where we return
capital back to investors and strengthen
and deepen those relationships.
And if you look at the past 12 months,
even during that period of time when M&A
volumes have been low, we delivered a
record monetization number. 75 billion
of assets have been sold returning about
50 billion of equity to investors. Now,
we'll think about different strategies
in order to deliver these monetizations.
Sometimes we'll do a partial sell like
we did with data 4. We sold a portfolio
of stabilized data centers. AO is a good
example of where we sold the investment
outright
and there are times that we will think
about the public markets. In fact, we
launched a IPO successfully back in June
for Leela and that was our Indian luxury
hotel portfolio.
Above all else though, what is the
critical part of that is returning the
capital with the appropriate
riskadjusted returns. So strong returns.
Now we've talked about in the past buy
versus build. Think about build
complimentary. On the buy front, there
are times when we want to expand our
capabilities that we will invest in
partner managers. And this past year,
we've been active. We've invest in
Castle Lake, Asset Back Finance,
Angelope, Mortgage, and Structured
Credit Solutions Provider.
But in addition, there are also times
that we will we will attract and and and
retain more op uh stakes within our
partner managers. So Oak tree and
primary wave we increase our stakes
there.
Across the board we have about 175
billion of fee bearing capital that we
managed from the partner manager
perspective. This has really further
enhanced our capabilities as well.
So the success of all this growth means
that we have delivered doubledigit
growth for all metrics 2.7 billion for
our fee related earnings 2.5 billion for
our distributable earnings and if you
look at our DE about 100% of that comes
from FRE
revenues have grown faster than our cost
meaning our operating leverage is built
into the business expanding our margins
and so we've been very happy with the
success we've generated to date.
Liquidity is also something we focus on
extremely with prudence and discipline
and we continue to find other sources of
capital for Brookfield Asset Management.
Recently, we issued our first bond deal
back in the spring
and we actually did our second one last
week.
That leaves 4 billion of capacity at our
high investment grade ratings and that's
more than enough to support the business
plan that we're presenting to you today.
In addition, that capacity only grows as
our DE grows over time.
We have uh we've expanded our banking
relationships. We upsize our evolver to
$1 billion. So, we have plenty of
capital to support the business, but we
will remain an asset light model.
Now, I want to spend a few minutes
talking about the strategic initiatives
because we've made excellent progress.
I've covered some of this. We've
expanded our pro uh product offerings,
our fundraising capabilities and our
sources of liquidity, but we've brought
more liquidity to our shareholders and
we simplified our corporate structure.
We are now head headquartered in the US,
which fits our profile.
We have uh simplified the corporate
structure by exchanging Brookfield
Corporation's share in the privately
held entity for the public entity which
now means that our market cap reflects
100% of our business so call it around
100 billion.
In addition to that we file SEC
registered reports similar to our peers
and what's that led to is us being
included in the Russell 1000 and being
positioned for additional index
inclusion.
So now we're on to the next five years,
the doubling.
This is a compounding growth model
supported by flagship funds,
complimentary funds, and wealth
solutions.
The flagships, I'm I'm going to repeat
again how important this is to our
business. And there is still
scalability. We see a 30% growth for the
2030 round of fundraisings for these
five strategies. Our complimentary funds
will continue to grow with at 100%
growth. So, we're really going to see a
lot of growth attached to our
complimentary strategies. And this year,
we thought it was important to really
distinguish between the two categories.
Mature strategies versus new strategies.
Mature strategies are strategies that
have already seen the success, multiple
fundraises, uh opportunity set out
there, investor demand. Uh so our
infrastructure debt fund which is on its
fourth vintage right now uh is a good
example of that. New strategies are
strategies that were in prog development
or we are just recently launched. So the
AI infrastructure fund is a good
example.
Well solutions is another part of our
growth story. We manage about 100
billion of fee bearing capital that's
growing to 325
by 2030.
Now Nick and Sachin Sach Satchin are
going to come up and talk about their
growth plans for the business but
they've already announced just group a
UK pension risk transfer business and
that add about 30 billion of fee bearing
capital but what else I want to point
out on this slide is as you can see in
the blue allocation which is our private
funds that's increasing over the next
five years so we are taking money from
the liquid bucket and moving it over to
our private funds.
As everyone appreciates, we earn a
management fee across the board
regardless of the allocation, but when
it does move into the private funds, we
earn additional fees. So that's another
growth engine.
So now pulling this all together,
we have further strengthened our
franchise. We have continued to expand
and grow our business and we anticipate
generating about 16% growth rate. Our
flagships and mature complimentary
strategies will generate about 50% of
our fee bearing capital. And these are
always successful. They're just scale
and repeat. New complimentary strate
strategies will bring in about 120
billion.
insurance solutions 230 billion while
returning 170 billion back to our
clients and this will get us to doubling
of our business of $1.2 trillion.
It the growth will be seen across all of
our businesses. Connor talked about the
mega trends we're feeling in our
business and that you can see is part of
the growth story for all businesses.
But I want to spend a second about the
the capital base that we have because
today about 87% of it is either
long-term or permanent in nature and
that's going to continue to grow to 92%
by 2030.
Again showing the
uh predictability and the stability of
our business.
Now getting into the weeds on the
numbers, you can see the growth of our
revenues and that's the driver behind
17% growth for our FRE at $359 per
share.
Again, revenues growing faster than our
costs. So expanding our margins
and that FRE is the driver behind our DE
18% growth. There is a little bit of
carry coming in a billion dollars net of
cost. Uh, and so you start to accumulate
that carry.
So, we're very happy with this 18%
growth. But I want to spend a second on
the carry because as you may recall when
we spun out BAM about three years ago,
all the legacy carried stayed with
Brookfield Corporation.
And for any fund that we launched post
the spin-off, twothirds comes to
Brookfield Asset Management and a third
goes to Brookfield Corporation. So Nick
buys me coffee. I think everyone gets
that. When you think about the 30
billion that will accumulate from 2031
to 2035,
10 will go to Brookfield Corporation and
net Brookfield Asset Management will get
10 billion. That's the next leg of
growth for Brookfield.
So I mentioned 18% growth and that is
really our base case but I want to also
discuss some of the other levers that
are not built in to their business plan
that could generate growth for us.
Access to 401ks is a great example. This
will be something that will grow our
business over the long term. 10 trillion
dollars opening up that is a step
change. New complimentary funds. So
these are the types of funds that aren't
in product development right now, but
they will come about. A high
infrastructure fund wasn't in our
business plan last year and now it is.
So that's an example of of a fund that
will come about because of the market
drivers, investor demand.
Capital markets, this is an area where
we've been quite conservative with our
numbers and there is upside to that. And
then finally, M&A. We have additional
stakes options really at Brookfield
uh against our partner managers where we
can buy additional u additional
percentages for attractive multiples
and in that if you look at it uh
assuming 100% of ownership by Brookfield
as an example that equates to 300
million of fee related earnings addition
in addition to that we will look at
opportunistic M&A and that is a
possibility.
So all of these multiple path when
assuming the base case of 18% can
generate 20 plus% annualized earning
growth.
So now you understand why we have
confidence in delivering the double of
our business
especially around the products,
partnerships and individuals that we've
laid out. We are built for this. And
when we set a plan, the culture of
Brookfield is aligned to deliver it. So
I know I said this last year, but when I
think about our base case plan plus the
additional levers and all the growth
drivers that have just outlined,
I genuinely believe the best is yet to
come. So thank you.
[Applause]
