Hello everyone, and welcome to this new summer
episode of the GOTO Book Club. I'm Xin calling
in from Copenhagen, Denmark and I'll be your
host today. It's a great joy to be joined by
my two friends, these two wonderful guests from
the beautiful and delicious Italy. Alessandro
Colla and Alberto Acerbis, they are the authors
of this new book called Domain Driven Refactoring,
a hands-on guide to Transforming Models to
Model Systems and Microservices. I've had the
pleasure of writing the foreword to their book.
Alessandro, Alberto, so great to have you here.
Thank you.
Both of your names
start with the letter A. For me, you two are
kind of like these top-grade Double-A batteries
full of energy and power. So the plan today is
to bring your personal energy and, of course,
some of the most powerful insights from your new
book into this conversation. Are you charged?
Yes.
So let's dive in. Good to have you here. Why
don't we start with your personal stories?
Maybe I could ask each of you to briefly
introduce yourselves, and in particular,
your journey into domain driven design.
I will start. Hi, I'm Alessandro. I started
with domain driven design a bit late. It was 2010,
2012 when I discovered domain driven design. A
couple of years later, I made all the possible
mistakes, using domain driven design in the wrong
way. So I learned a lot. Right now, until
now, I'm still searching for the truth,
still looking for the truth. Because everything
changes. You discover something new every time. I
am lucky enough to work on different domains, so
I gained a lot of experience. My company I work
for, Evolution, is a company that develops mainly
e-commerce solutions from scratch of complex
systems, and domain driven design helped me
a lot in finding solutions and being able to
deliver value to the customer.
Thank you, Alessandro.
My journey with domain driven design began more
or less five years ago this year when I first
met Alessandro during a local community meetup.
At the time, the only books that were available
were the iconic Blue Book of Eric Evans, the Red
Book of Vaughn Vernon, an amazing book. For the
first time, it finally showed me how to move the
fantastic, amazing theories in the real world,
especially in .NET and C#. At the time, I started
to use that framework. Finally someone showed me
how to apply domain driven design. Fortunately,
I started to use domain driven design in many
projects and environments. My company works
for the financial industry and insurance, many
different markets, many different environments,
and the way to apply domain driven design
offered me all these opportunities to try to apply
domain driven design from scratch in Greenfield
situations or Brownfield when you have to deal
with legacy systems - that's the goal of our book.
Excellent, I see you're leading to domain
driven design from different angles and
obviously the two of you have collaborated
a lot. It's always a great treat for me to
join your workshops. The way you teach feels
like watching a kitchen conversation between
a married couple with a shared brain,
but still a lot of small disagreements.
I'm curious - what made you start collaborating
together? What's good about it? And how did you
end up writing a book together? Was there a key
moment that sparked the idea where you said,
"Yeah, this is it, we're going for it"?
We started thinking about a book five years ago.
The first idea came over a beer because our most
interesting and challenging conversations happen
with beer. We started thinking about it five
years ago, then three years ago - two years ago
if I'm not mistaken - we tried writing on our
own. But because of work and life in general,
we weren't able to achieve something concrete.
Then we had this coincidence where Packt contacted
us and asked if we were willing to write a book on
refactoring, and all the dots connected because we
were already maturing some ideas on refactoring.
We had already done lots of workshops on
refactoring and legacy code, and it came up as a
natural evolution of our expertise in refactoring.
It was a coincidence that we didn't look for - it
was something we had talked about over the years
doing workshops, and then the opportunity
came and we took it as fast as possible.
The idea emerged and then the stars aligned
for you, and it just happened. I've heard
from a lot of book authors that writing
a book is hard work and not a walk in the
park. And as you already mentioned, there
are already many books out there. Why did
you feel another book was needed? What was
the gap you were filling? And who is it for?
There are plenty of excellent domain driven
design books available, but at least for us,
all these books don't start from the
standpoint of refactoring. They show domain
driven design - how to apply domain driven
design from the beginning for your project,
how to apply domain driven design when you start
a new project. They explain all the patterns and
all the situations you can find when
starting a project using these approaches.
But the idea for us was - we work a lot on
refactoring. The customer comes to us asking,
"We have this application that we rely
on heavily, but it's legacy. No one who
started the application is working with us
anymore." This is a common situation, and
the starting point is different. You can't just
apply domain driven design because this is not a
new project. This is something that exists with
its history, and you have to explore the history
before you apply and integrate. That was our idea.
Yes.
Right. So a really tough use case is dealing with
brownfield applications, but you're showing that
you can do it. Obviously your book is named "A
Hands-On Guide," so you show people hands-on,
step by step how to do this.
Because we do this every day.
Let's unpack what domain driven means. If a
domain is a business area supported by software,
then domain driven could mean business
driven or business requirements driven.
Many companies have requirements disciplines,
product owners writing stories and so forth.
What's the difference between requirements
driven and domain driven, and why does this
distinction matter in the context of refactoring?
The main distinction is that requirements driven
tends to be more static and linear. You gather
the list of needs, then translate these needs into
features. It focuses on what the system should
do and not why those features need to exist.
With domain driven design, you have a different
approach because from a refactor standpoint,
you are continuously refining your understanding
of the business flow and business process with
the developer and domain expert, using
the language bounded context pattern.
You are modeling the deep structure
of the business, the logic behind it.
You have completely different knowledge
and change your monolith in a different
way because you're not just adding features
without thinking. You have to have a deep
understanding of the domain and act accordingly.
So starting even in brownfield refactoring,
start with the why not just the what and the how.
That harmonizes well with the path many teams are
taking from pure requirements or feature teams
to product teams owning the business outcome.
The solution is different. You come to me asking
me to solve the problem and offer me a solution.
If you ask me and explore the problem with me,
and we together find a solution rather than you
proposing to me a solution with your
requirements, it's quite different.
This position could be a little bit surprising for
some people when they hear the word refactoring.
Because when some developers hear refactoring
they think about clean code, clean up the code.
And you used a big portion of your book to talk
about problem space. Even complexity can have.
So speak to the developers. What are
some of the concrete payoffs to start
with the problem space compared to jumping
straight into code analysis and code cleanup?
Refactoring is not just building your solution
or modernizing your solution using a new
technology, a new framework, or a new language.
It's something incremental. We love incremental
refactoring. Starting with analyzing your domain,
your problem, then from a technical point of view,
what are the first steps that you have to
do before analyzing and modifying your code?
To do this, we have to understand your problem.
I'm a developer. I'm an expert in my field,
not in yours. I'm not a broker in financial
markets. I'm not an expert in the external market.
So first, you have to meet your problem,
your requirements, and start analyzing your
legacy code, finding the right boundaries.
Because without splitting your solution,
I cannot modify anything in your code. At least
I can live without the fear of introducing a new
bug or something that goes wrong. So refactoring
is not just "I destroy the old code and rewrite
the code." I have to understand.
With baby steps, move forward in
changing something and introduce parts
of the way, doing design and content
mapping, being ubiquitous language, and all these
patterns. These are fundamental for the first
part of deciphering the factory code. Then you
can apply all the other parts like aggregates,
and if you want, even secure aspects.
But the fundamental part is understanding
the problem, analyzing the problem. We use the
Michelangelo work, something that I love because
we are Italian. Michelangelo said that when
you know the most beautiful statue, you know,
you just see it. When you see these sculptures,
people ask him "How do you extract from the marble
all these beautiful sculptures?"
Michelangelo said the sculpture
was in the marble, and I just set it free.
The same is for legacy code. The solution is
in the legacy code. Because if you ask me to
refactor your code, you used that legacy code
because it's valuable for you. You just need to
extract the fundamental part and move forward.
I will add another thing that we see often,
both me and Alberto. The legacy is not just
because the system is old. Often there is lost
knowledge. That's why you have to understand,
really understand, what it does,
why it does the things that it does,
what were the choices that were made during the
life of this system? Because it is not just old,
it has lots of caveats that
you have to understand before
changing things. Like you said, Alberto.
That is a very important perspective,
isn't it? Legacy is just not old.
It's not just old. There are many
other aspects that bring you to choose
to change and go down this rabbit hole.
I totally resonate with this image - the legacy
code is like a big chunk of marble. What does it
do? How do you see the David that is hiding within
it? That's the essence of the code. That's what we
want to do with the first step of refactoring.
But the challenge is that in legacy systems,
there's often this language drift. We all know
this - concepts become muddy, overlapping,
or conflicting. The challenge is that because
you've worked with this for so long, it becomes
everybody's everyday. In your view, how can people
begin to notice these gaps? How can people begin
to notice that their marble is starting to morph
from this beautiful figure towards something else?
If we don't take care, we may one day not even
recognize what the figure is supposed to be.
How do we create this kind of awareness that
invites people to question continuously? Do
we have these leaky legacy abstractions that
we've taken for granted? How do we do this?
I think there are tools that help you understand
the business flows. Event storming helps you
map - you have this legacy system, you don't know
anything or don't know a lot about it. You have
to start mapping the business processes, and I
think that event storming is the perfect tool
because you don't delve into the technical
stuff. You just understand how things work.
The information goes around your system and how
the system is supposed to react to this kind of
information and the interaction of your users.
From there, you can have a bird's eye view of
everything, and then you can start to define
bounded contexts, try to understand the ubiquitous
language of every part of the system. At least for
me, I can already see some patterns emerging, and
I can already see some boundaries. From there I
explore and see if these are okay with the system
and the overlapping parts. Then you have the
discussion of every single theme that emerges from
that. But usually I start with the event storming.
When I was a student, my software engineering
professor told us that writing the code is the
last action that you have to do when you create
a new application. I disagreed with him because
at the time I wanted to write code because I
discovered this fantastic way to express myself.
Probably he was right, maybe 50% or 80%, because
writing the code is the last action. But when you
work with legacy code, we have to understand the
problem, as Alessandro said. So you have to
use event storming or these tools, but also
offer to your customer a solution in a short time.
So using these techniques of baby steps, you can
refactor your code to show the result. Then,
maybe in a sprint or six months or a year, and
at the same time, you continue this conversation
with your customer to understand the problem.
What the two of you have pointed out is really
encouraging for software engineers and developers.
To see that - what is our real power? Is it
to implement a story? Is it to implement the
newest patterns? Is it to do programming with
AI, or is it to solve problems worth solving?
How do we even get to the problem? Well, it's
hard work. It requires, as Alessandro said,
a discovery process using event storming.
We need to get the language right.
Yes, and continuous iteration.
Yes. But when that happens,
the complexity of the business problem
merges with our problem-solving skills.
Something beautiful and powerful emerges out of
that process. That's what we are in the world
to do. That's our contribution to the world rather
than writing implementation of someone else's
specification, which was written maybe three
months ago and has already deviated from reality.
What you're telling the community is that
there are tools and techniques that can
help us do this in a step-by-step way. It's
not an unconquerable piece of marble. We
are not Michelangelo. We don't have to be
Michelangelo to do this work. That's what
I hear you saying.
Perfect. Yes.
Let's directly jump to the different levels
of refactoring you mentioned in your book.
Let's jump to the biggest granularity level
- architecture refactoring. I think a lot of
people are curious to know that for years,
microservices have been seen as the end
game of architecture nirvana or architecture
modernization. Unfortunately, many teams have
tried this but ended up with a distributed
big pile of mud. From your perspective,
how can a team realistically assess whether
they're actually ready for microservices? Or
maybe even take a step back - how do we know if we
even need microservices? What's your take on this?
Probably the first request from a new customer
is "I need to transform my legacy code into a
microservices solution because microservices
are the solution for all our problems."
But it's very hard to create a microservice
architecture starting from something like a
big ball of mud. It's like Michelangelo creating
something starting from a big block of marble.
Microservices are very cool, so we
think we need to have the latest
solution that the market proposes
because we want to have the top of
the world in our sector - we need to have
the top architecture solution. But first,
you have to understand what problem your
solution wants to solve, then split the
solution into the right boundaries and recreate
a monolith solution, but a well-organized,
well-structured monolith solution - a modular
monolith, for example, as we explain in our book.
It's not because we don't like microservices or we
prefer monoliths. We love both. It's the way that
you write your code that makes the difference,
not the architecture that you choose. Just
because you choose microservices doesn't mean your
solution is the best solution you can propose.
You really need microservices when your web
portal or your basket for e-commerce grows a lot,
you have a lot of requests because of Black Friday
or similar events, and you really need to scale
part of your solution independently. But if your
solution is used by your colleagues, the employees
of the company, and you have 100, 200, or 1000
users of your application using virtual machines
or servers in your basement, you don't really
need a microservices solution. A well-organized
monolith that we can modify, explore, and evolve
as you want is the best solution, at least for us.
I think that teams that need to choose whether
to move to a microservices solution should ask
themselves two questions: Are we technically
ready for that? And are we organizationally
ready for that? Because if I have to split
my monolith into microservices and the team
doesn't have full control end-to-end
on a service, it could be a problem.
What do you mean by organizationally ready?
The team must be autonomous over the service
that you have to manage. And organizationally,
the team must be business-aligned - it's not
just about technical stuff. The technical stuff
is already hard because you have network latency,
consistency, communication, and
distributed changes. It's much easier
to have communication inside modules within
the monolith instead of having distributed
services around the globe or even in the
same server farm where they are decoupled.
But we tend to oversee the organization itself. I
have to be autonomous, I have to be in control of
my service, and the business must be aligned
between the bounded contexts because every
service represents a bunch of concepts,
and the teams working on them have to be
perfectly aligned. It's not always easy to do.
That's right. And that's why in your book you
mentioned modular monoliths as a stepping
stone or architectural waypoint to get
to microservices if you really need it in
the end. From a domain-driven perspective,
a modular monolith - the modularity part
- is really giving us the boundaries and
the understandability of the code, making it
easier to transition to the next step, right?
And it allows you to explain how things work.
If you are not able to explain how things work,
how things are connected, you cannot move
to microservices and increase complexity.
So it's better to have a really well-made
monolith - then it will be much easier
to move to microservices because you already
have independent modules inside your monolith.
So it's much easier to take a module and
transform it into an independent service.
You can do this one step at a time. We repeat the
same theme: baby steps, baby steps, baby steps.
If you remain in your monolith solution and you
receive a request for a new feature in a specific
module, it's much easier to implement this feature
because you have to work on these independent
modules inside your monolith. You don't have
coupling with the other modules, so introducing a
new feature in your solution is easier - it's not
so hard, it's not difficult, it's not impossible.
Plus if you took another delightful walk and got
cold feet about your boundaries, it's way easier
to change a modular monolith. And you've already
split into 10,000 microservices and new. Yeah,
it's difficult to rework that piece. Right. So
it's kind of postponing the important decisions
to the last responsible moment in a way.
Let us say that the only thing a big bang
rewrite guarantees is a big bang.
And I think that's what they said.
Another big topic is that I've seen financial
institutions and a lot of big organizations
having an API movement. A lot of the legacy
functionalities and capabilities have been
API enabled. And the next step for a lot of
these organizations is to move toward a more
event driven architecture. Could you unpack
this piece? How would domain driven thinking
help companies better position themselves
on this path from API enablement to a more
large scale, event driven architecture?
First of all, you can apply domain driven
design without forcing your code to use event
architecture, because many developers think,
"Oh, if I implement domain driven design, I have
to know event driven architecture." No, you can
apply domain driven design and then we found the
way to do that in more infrastructure because
we deploy on cloud most of the time, and using
different services that communicate between them.
To say that we need to use a different
pattern to communicate between these services,
these microservices, and event driven is a good
way because it guarantees loose coupling of the
services, but introduces a new problem you have to
deal with: eventual consistency. You have to deal
with separate databases for each microservice.
Each microservice has to have its own database.
It's impossible to have more than one
microservice that uses the same database
because it's not microservices.
It's a distributed monolith.
It's possible to create a solution.
You need databases and more services,
but there's no microservices - it's another kind
of solution. And all of these combinations of pros
and cons that you have to evaluate before moving
to microservices, to event driven architecture.
Even though this is one of my favorites for sure,
it introduces new knowledge in your company. Do
you know how to manage these kinds of problems?
Do you know how to manage eventual consistency?
How do you know the different messages that
live in your microservices and the messages
that live outside your microservices are totally
different messages with totally different scope,
with totally different meaning?
They contain different information.
That's very important. A domain event is
not the same as integration events. From
the technical point of view, they're classes
with immutable properties, but the content of
one is different from the content of the second
one. So please move to microservices when you
really know all these small but important
differences. They seem small, but are not
so small - they're small from a technical point
of view, but not from a business point of view.
I would say use it where it really matters.
Because if you have real bottlenecks in some
places of your application, it makes sense to
move to events, for example, for reporting or
background tasks. You can use events, but if
your system works perfectly fine with an API,
with a synchronous API and it works fine,
why change it if there is no value in it?
As our method was saying, it's just a need for the
developer - a new technology like most frameworks
and usually they end up in the same way.
Right. So we really need to distinguish between
the essential business complexity, compared
with our fascination with tooling complexity,
with patterns and so forth. That brings me
to one of the more subtle points you made in
the book. There's a graph in your book about
code complexity. How inexperienced developers
write easy code, while experienced
developers do not write complex code,
but they aim for simple code, which isn't
always easy to write. What do you mean by that?
This is for Alberto. Because
I think this is yours.
When you finish your college university and you
start to introduce yourself in the work world. You
join a big company and you know a lot of patterns.
You want to apply all these patterns. "Oh, I know
this pattern. I have to apply this pattern in my
code. I know patterns that Alessandro taught me.
I have to apply this pattern." And if you paint
this in a graph, you can see the code complexity
growing very high. When the time that you
spend working on code increases, you discover
that you have to apply the right pattern at
the right moment, not all patterns together.
But then when you really need to use that pattern,
your code complexity starts to decrease. At the
beginning, you are in the easy way. That's not
simple. The easy way is the best way to create
a big ball of mud, because you need patterns or
what you learned at the first time that you work.
At the end of your path, you are in the simple way
when you apply the right patterns and introducing
a new feature or modifying the structure or
modifying whatever you want is simple. But
creating something that is simple is not easy.
That's right. I guess what you're saying is we've
all been there. We've all gone from writing
naive code and being totally in love with
all these patterns and architecture, and we have
to use them. And then at a point in our career,
we realize that simple is better. Simple is not
naive. Simple is actually that option that gives
us adaptability to change. So it's okay, we've
all been there. Get ready on your own path.
So we've covered a lot of ground
already. Before we wrap up this episode,
let's turn the spotlight back to the two
of you. Where can people follow your work
and connect with you, Alessandro and Alberto?
On LinkedIn. We usually share everything on
LinkedIn. There's not too many social people with
LinkedIn is something we share. And we have our
profiles on LinkedIn or on top of some mountains.
And the code repo, the link is in the book.
We have also another repo that we have all the
example codes that we use in our workshops and
experiments. Everything is inside there.
So you can take a look. I will share it.
We will definitely include that in the
show notes. So what's the next chapter
for the two of you? Any new experiments,
workshops or collaborations on the horizon?
We are working. We started working, of course,
on AI. We are trying to create something with
AI to help developers in understanding domain
driven design, understanding bounded context,
and trying to move from event storming to
something that makes sense from a code point of
view. Because AI can write code, yes, of course.
But how about understanding a bounded context?
How about understanding the correct domain
events to use? So we are experimenting with
it. We will be able to create something that
can help us move faster, or at least that can
give us some insights to understand the domain.
Because AI, at least in my opinion, right now,
isn't able to do that because every domain is
different, every problem has a different solution
because the variables in place are different. So
you can't rely on AI because it seems like the
same problem that I had the last time. So, okay, I
will use the same code, the same things. So yeah,
we are experimenting on that and it's fascinating.
Let me know when you're running the first
workshop. I will be there for sure. I
guess this will be the last question.
Is there anything we didn't cover today that
you might want to add? Or any final thoughts
you want to leave our listeners or viewers with?
Don't be lazy with domain events and integration
events, because they're not the same.
They're not the same thing. Yeah.
Don't be lazy.
Yeah, there's a good cliffhanger if you don't
know the distinction between integration events
and domain events as Alberto already mentioned.
Go and check out the book and don't be lazy. What
about you, Alberto? Do you have something to add?
Don't be lazy is my summary. The master has a path
to improve your skills. So don't be lazy. It's for
sure the best way to close these sessions.
Yes.
That's a great closing punchline. Don't be lazy.
And that will be a wrap for today's book club.
Alessandro, Alberto, thank you so much for sharing
your stories and insights. I have definitely felt
your energy today all the way through. And to
our viewers and listeners, if you are listening
to this in your car, on the train, during a walk
or on a run, if this episode sparked any new ideas
about refactoring or about TDD, we hope you will
carry this curiosity forward and consider maybe
adding domain driven refactoring to your summer
reading list. You will find links to the books,
code examples, repos, and where to follow these
two amazing people in the show notes below. And I
guess that's all, folks. See you next time.
Thank you. Bye.
