We often talk about the power of the platform or
the Ares edge.
And what that really means is first we're rooted
in a collaborative culture.
And so everybody here is rooting for everybody
else.
And everybody every day is going out of their
way to improve the investment process of others.
Assets follow performance.
Our view is if we are performing at or above
targeted returns for our investors, our business
will grow nicely.
And that's been the case for the past 20 years.
We don't have an obsession on growth.
We have an obsession on performance.
Self origination is a big part of what we do across
every asset class at Ares.
Creating a wide funnel of opportunities and
being very selective across that wide funnel is
what self origination is all about, is making sure
you pick the best investments and drive risk
return.
Most of our assets are self originated at Ares
Management, whether in private equity, whether
in credit, whether in real estate.
And if you think about it, these are the types of
assets that our investors cannot recreate
elsewhere.
We're putting together somewhat unique
portfolios and in the marketplace where the
fixed income community is searching for yield
and the public equity community is nervous
about levels of volatility in their public equity
portfolio. We're providing, by self originating both
credit and equity products, opportunities to
outperform the public markets with less
volatility.
It's almost impossible to have anything that is
truly proprietary.
But creating a meaningful edge, a meaningful
angle in sourcing something, creating something
through intellectual creativity by virtue of a
relationship is a very powerful advantage that
Ares possesses today and is only seeking to
grow.
Most of our clients are pension funds and
insurance companies that rely on us to deliver
investment performance.
And so every day when we show up to work, we
try to make sure that we never lose sight of who
our clients are.
We think about the teachers, we think about the
firefighters and the policemen.
We think about the retirees who all rely on our
capabilities to make sure that they have a great
retirement.
And knowing that we've delivered on that
promise is very, very satisfying.
Our view all along was that if we could build and
grow a global franchise in real estate, credit and
private equity and really have those businesses
collaborate over a long period of time, that we
would be differentiated in the value proposition
that we could bring into the market.
