Have you ever seen these shape morphing
animations and wondered how was this
even made? Well, in this video I'll show
you how to create smooth Apple style
shape morphing in After Effects. And
don't worry, I'll break it down in the
simplest way possible so you can
actually understand. No plug is
required, just clean motion. Let's do
it. In this video I'm going to be
creating this Apple Music UI morphing
animation. So let's get started. Yo, so
first things first, I got to show you
how to actually morph the shapes. Which
to morph shapes we have to use a shape
layer. Some people use solid layers and
try to morph stuff like that just not
possible like that. Or maybe it is, but
you're just overcomplicating things. So
first we go to layer, new, and then we
go to shape layer. Or if you have my
plug-in Prime Tools then you can just
make a shape layer by clicking this
button. Okay, once you have your shape
layer you go up here, and as you can see
we have some options here. You have the
rectangle tool, rounded rectangle tool,
ellipse tool, polygon tool, and the star
tool. Now for shape morphing you only
want to use the rectangle tool. I
personally use the rounded rectangle
tool just because it's rounded and it
kind of fits the Apple aesthetic as
Apple always has rounded corners. And
then from here you can go to the
contents, rectangle one, and then you
have access [music] to your size,
position, and the roundness of your
shape or whatever. Now what some people
do whenever they try to do shape
morphing is that they just go to scale
and they turn this off. And if we create
a keyframe and make it like this, that's
what they do. Now I don't know if you
can tell, but it's kind of like ruining
the shape. At least the the corners are
not like rounded like they should be. So
instead of doing that, you should go
into your contents, rectangle, [music]
rectangle path one, and right here where
we were just at, you move this size.
Don't move the other size of the layer
whatever. Use the actual rectangle path
to do your morphing. If you scale this
up, obviously it scales everything at
once. So it has this little locking
mechanism thing, which if you disable
this by clicking on it, you can actually
change how it looks. And as you can see,
the corners are not being messed up by
this. This is actually how you do the
proper shape morphing. Like this is
actually it. It's so simple, yet some
people over complicate these things. And
so from here, you just have to keyframe
whatever you want. So let's say we go
back to the square. This is going to be
our first keyframe. And then we go over
here, and let's say we want to make it,
I guess, skinny like this for some
reason. And you [music] just have it
wherever you want. And now if you play
it, it'll basically morph into that
shape. And obviously with the right
graph, it would look really smooth. I
know it's crazy, but it is literally
that simple. Now, what if you want to
make a circle? Cuz there's many UIs
where you would want a circle. Then it's
as simple as just bringing the roundness
all the way up, which you will get a
circle. And if you play it, [music] as
you can see, it still morphs into that.
But let's say you wanted to morph from a
circle to a square, you would also
keyframe the roundness. So we go over
here, let's delete this keyframe, and
then let's bring down the roundness to
zero. And then let's go ahead and add a
graph to this. And as you can see, it
now morphs from a circle to a square.
Which typically, if you're making a
square like this, you don't want it to
be fully squarish. You still want it to
be a little bit rounded like this. So it
would look like this. And for shape
morphing, what makes it look really cool
is that sometimes it shifts colors as
well. So it looks like the icons are
just shifting, but in reality, it's just
this shape layer moving. So let's say we
go from this square, we keyframe size
[music] and roundness, and then we want
to make like a like a task bar, or I
don't even know what the name of this
is. So we would have something like
this.
That shape morphs into this, right? Or
maybe we do it even faster, so looks
[music] a little bit more like seamless.
Obviously, we would have like PNG icons
and text and all that. That's what
sells, I guess, the UI. And like I said,
another thing that also sells it is
changing the color, [music] which you
can do it exactly in here. So you go to
rectangle, you go to fill, and right
here you have a color, which you can
also keyframe. So let's put this
keyframe at the beginning,
>> [music]
>> and then let's say over here, maybe
we're doing a UI for like, I don't know.
Let's just change the color to like
gray, or let's change it to red so it
can contrast the background. Press okay,
and then let's use the same graph. Now
when we play it, it shifts color as
well. So, it's almost like it's changing
icon if that makes sense. And obviously
what sells it even more is having, you
know, pictures, icons, text, and not
only that but having like a little
bounce animation around this right here
once it's like starting to shape into
the next shape UI. And if we kind of
dissect one of my edits where I do this
shape morphing, we have basically this
like rectangle or whatever, but it
starts to shape lower, you know what I
mean? And then it it changes colors at
the same time. And then while that's
happening, the icons and the text are
just a key frame with opacity. And right
here we have another example. This is
happening, and then as you can see the
color is shifting and the shape is also
changing. And now it changed to this
button or whatever, which [music] then,
you know, they click on it and then it
changes to this other like Discord UI
type which all [music] this thing is
just one shape layer. This is one shape
layer. This is the same shape layer. And
this is the same [music] shape layer.
It's just shifting colors and there's
different icons on it if that makes
sense.
So, obviously I wanted to work on a UI
for this video, but I was thinking of
what I should do. So, I was just
clicking around my phone. And so, we're
going to be making this UI right here.
And I don't know if you can see, this is
a screen recording from my phone by the
way. Once you click on it, it becomes
bigger, you know what I mean? So, we're
just going to be doing this animation
right here. So, we're basically going to
be building this scene just a little bit
different. So, let's get started.
I'm going to put this on a different
composition just so I can kind of go
back and forth and look at it. Okay, so
the first thing we got to do is
obviously do the UI. We're going to make
a shape layer. We're going to get the
rounded rectangle tool and let's make a
square. If you want to make a perfect
square, you want to press shift while
you're dragging. And also if you wanted
it to be centered, you want to press
control at the same time. And as you can
see, now it's centered and it's a
perfect square. But let's make it around
this size. Let's center the anchor point
and center the square. And now we look
back at this because reference is one of
the most important things. So, you'll
see that the roundness is way more
pronounced, I guess you would say. And
let's go ahead and increase the
roundness. I'll say to around right
here. Probably a little bit less. If you
want to be perfect, technically you can
import this and layer it on top of here
so you can actually get it right. It's
not really that important. Quick pause.
I know you're enjoying this fire
tutorial, but let me tell you about Luma
AI cuz they're the sponsors of today's
video and they looking kind of tough.
This is Luma AI's Dream Machine and they
just dropped something called Ray Three
Modify, which honestly fixes the biggest
issue with AI video. With Ray Three
Modify, I can re-envision any scene
however I want. And [music] the crazy
part is that the performance stays the
same and you can completely change the
look of any shot, which is kind of
crazy. With Modify, I'm not guessing
anymore. I'm actually directing. This is
huge for things like music videos, short
films, or VFX passes, especially if you
want big production value without a
massive budget. You guys already know
that AI's getting bigger and it's not
going anywhere anytime soon. So, it's
either you learn how to use it as a tool
or you get left behind. If you want to
try our Dream Machine for yourself, link
is in the description or you can scan
this QR code. But anyways, back to the
video. And instead of making it, I guess
this a glass type of thing, I'm going to
go back to the simple white background
just cuz I feel like that's a little bit
more cleaner, in my opinion. I like this
glass effect, but I think it's uh a
little bit too much and it wouldn't make
sense if like this is the screen, you
know what I mean? Or maybe it would, but
it's all up to you. So, we're going to
make a solid layer, we're going to put
it at the bottom, and let's make this
white, maybe a little bit grayish. And
now we basically want to get the profile
picture and all these icons. The text,
obviously we do it in After Effects.
This little play button, these little
icons. Let me put y'all on game. If you
want to get free PNG icons that are
super high quality, I recommend going to
Flaticon. And in here, you can basically
search for whatever icon you want. If
we're looking for this little play
button thing, we literally just type
play button. Search. And as you can see,
we get a whole bunch of super high
resolution play buttons, which the first
one looks like it's perfect. Then right
here, you have the resolutions of it.
Obviously, you would choose the biggest
resolution and then just download it.
I'm not sponsored by them. I think this
is just a great website, so I'm putting
you guys on. And just for that, I think
you guys should go down below and give
this video a thumbs up. I'm pretty sure
if you're still watching, you're
enjoying this video. So, give this video
a thumbs up. I mean, it's literally
free. And while you're at it, if you're
new to this channel, make sure to
subscribe. I post a lot of cool After
Effects tutorials. Anyways, back to the
video. Obviously here, now I have to get
the profile picture, the tags, the
icons, and put them all right here. Make
sure to get the highest resolution icons
as possible just because if you zoom in,
you don't want any pixelation. And for
stuff like this where it has an icon,
but it also has like a little button or
whatever, we can actually just make a
shape layer. And in this case, we can
actually, I guess, use the ellipse tool
and make a circle, enter the anchor
point, and let's have this around right
here. Maybe a little bit bigger. You
know what? Let's go ahead and just
duplicate this, freeze frame it, copy,
paste, bring the opacity down, and then
let's basically align it kind of like
this. And yeah, this circle was supposed
to be a little bit bigger. There it
goes. And so now, I'm just going to get
the album cover, put in this text, add
this icon, and these as well. So, I'll
be right back.
>> [singing]
[music]
>> And there it goes. This is the look that
I want to go with. Now that I think
about it, it kind of looks like an Apple
Watch like thing, especially with the
dark mode, which this isn't even like an
Apple thing, but it low-key should. This
looks really good, actually. So,
basically here goes the first UI out of
two. And now that I think about it, this
technically was supposed to be smaller.
Let's make a null, attach everything but
the background to it, and then let's
just make it smaller, maybe a little bit
bigger. Okay, now from here we basically
want to shape morph it. So we get this
main shape right here and we press U
twice so we get this. Turn this off,
make key frame for size and roundness.
Press U so we get the key frames right
here and now we go to somewhere where we
wanted to shape it so around right here.
Maybe let's actually bring this over
here and then this should get bigger and
wider.
A little bit thinner. If we need to
adjust it later, we can. Let's make the
corners a little less rounded, maybe a
little bit like this. And now we just
basically add a graph to it and there
you go. And now from here we basically
adjust the rest. And now that I'm
looking at it, let's make it a bigger
actually like this and like this, like
this. And then we get this. Okay, and
then now we basically have a new canvas
and so now we want to basically shape
everything around. Looking at the
reference we see that the album cover
gets bigger but stays in place. And
we're going to do that. Also the text
but it kind of changes a little bit. It
gets smaller because there's a feature
on it and then the play button and stuff
it stays in place. And now that I think
about it, it should technically be
playing so it should not be a play
button. It should be it should be like
the pause button. You know what I mean?
Maybe we'll change that later. Actually
no, let's change that right now. So if
we put pause on here,
let's go with this one. Download. All
right, now we make it smaller. Let's go
ahead and make it white and let's place
it right here. Let's remove this little
There it goes. That looks kind of weird.
Make it smaller. Why does that look
weird? I think these need to be a little
bit closer to each other. There it goes,
that looks better. All right, so now
since it's morphing like this, now we
want to change stuff around. We want
these basically to just get bigger and
at this point let's just scale them all
at the same time which to do that we
want to use a null. But as you can see
there these are all attached to that
null that we made to scale everything
down so we're going to have to do a
little bit of math here. Okay, let me
change these. All right, and basically
all of these pink ones, and I guess now
this thing, but this should go down
here. Let's make this pink. Lavender?
No, not lavender. Beige? There you go.
And now we make a null, and then let's
name this null clay thing. I don't know.
Now let's get all of these and basically
attach them to that. And then we attach
this to the main null. So now Yeah, it
should be there. Okay, and now with
this, we can scale this up as you can
see. We're going to make a scale and
position keyframe. And then I'm going to
look at the previous keyframes that we
did, just so we can stay at the same
speed. Make this bigger, and it should
go lower around right here.
Uh a little bit above, actually. Not
that big, because we need this volume
thing and this AirPlay. So maybe we'll
move this around, but this is basically
where it should be at. We highlight them
at the same graph, and now we get
something like this. You see? And now we
basically do that with everything else.
So now with this, I think this is
supposed to be getting bigger now. So
scale, position, and how big should it
be? Well, basically it takes the whole
[music] top half, so we scale this up,
and something like this. And then let's
add this graph, and there it goes. And
now we need to bring the names lower,
basically. Also, the little AirPlay
thing kind of just like fades away, but
it does kind of move down a little bit.
So since all of these are individually
made, we want to basically attach
everything to either each other or into
a null, which I'm going to basically use
a null. Null, I'm going to call this
What is it called? AirPlay button.
And now let's get everything that goes
under, including this. Let's attach it
to this, and then we attach this to the
main null here. Let's actually rename
this to main null.
>> [music]
>> And now it also has this gray button,
which is down here, not sure why. Let's
put it up here, and let's also make it
orange. And let's attach this to the
AirPlay button. And now using this null,
as you can see, it moves the whole
thing. So let's look at these keyframes
that we did before. So, starting here,
position, and then it should kind of
like position Well, that looks
Technically, right here it should
position up because it this whole thing
is just scaling. This is it's on the top
right. That's why it's going down. So,
technically, it should go like up. So,
let's bring it up over here and let's
also increase the scale a bit just like
this. And let's add the graph. There it
goes. And it's basically just going to
fade away. So, we're going to grab all
these, press T for opacity. Go to the
end, bring it to zero, grab all these
keyframes, and add the graph. There it
goes. And technically, we want the album
cover to be on top cuz as you can see,
it's kind of like behind it. Well, let
me actually just search for that. Let me
click on it. Let's rename this album
cover, and then just put it all the way
at the top right here. So, it gets on
top of it. And now we have something
like this. This album cover is a little
bit too rounded. I had previously added
a shape layer, and then I used and then
I went to blending mode and did stencil
alpha. So, I can use the shape layer to
just move the roundness. So, basically,
we want to make it less rounded now. So,
let's look at where the first keyframe
is at over here. Let's put our timeline
there, and then let's go to that comp,
and now we are at that exact same moment
[music] or timestamp. We go to
roundness, keyframe it. Now, we go back,
go to the end of it, go back, and now
let's make this like this, and then
let's do this in graph. And let's turn
on motion blur. So, if we play it, there
it goes. It gets bigger, and then this
is where we can see that this is a
little bit too wide. So, technically, we
go over here and just make it a little
bit skinnier where it matches something
like that. Let's highlight this, add a
graph again cuz every time you adjust
the keyframes, it does move the graph
slightly. And let me actually make this
less rounded. All right, let's see how
it's looking. There it goes. Now, we
basically just need to add the text
going up, which you kind of get the
point of it. It's pretty simple. It's
just I guess like very time-consuming.
Okay, so now we're just going to
basically bring up the text, and then
also add like this timeline or play
thing whatever these numbers this star
this volume thing these icons and this
which I basically kind of showed you how
to make it. This will basically be a
shape layer.
Even this thing right here would be a
shape layer. This would be a shape
layer. This technically could be the
shape layer but I'm just going to find
an icon and these are just icons that
you can go on that website that I told
you about. These are text layers text
layers and yeah pretty simple. I wish I
can buy a time machine.
>> I wish that I could see.
That's cool but I'm at least like two in
been waiting since you flew in been
thinking and pursuing. I see life
through a new lens is shaking that [ __ ]
moving [singing] been thinking you
should move in let's make it and have a
few kids. Why the [ __ ] not? And there
you have it. I actually ended up adding
the lyric part just so I can post it on
Instagram and this edit ended up going
pretty crazy at 1 million views and
100,000 likes. If you want to learn how
to make more clean Apple style UI's give
this video a thumbs up. Let's get this
to 7,000 likes and I'll drop another for
y'all. Make sure to subscribe and turn
on the notification bell so you don't
miss any new uploads. Also if you want
to be one of my students and learn more
about editing DM me on Instagram. Shout
out Luma AI for sponsoring this video
and I'll see you guys on the next one.
Deuces.
