Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. Today we have
another edition of Deal Debrief where we
get the download on recent transactions
from the people who put them together.
On this episode, we're featuring two
recent transactions within our real
estate business. the sales of Levenza, a
student accommodation platform in
southern Europe, and AO, one of the
leading senior living platforms in
Australia. To dive into these deals,
we're joined by Ruben Kesha Morphy,
co-head of Brookfield Real Estate in
Australia, and Alberto Nin, managing
director of real estate in Southern
Europe.
Reuben, Alberto, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks, Meredith. Great to be here.
>> Thank you.
>> Good to have you. Let's dive in really
high level. Can you both tell me a
little bit about your backgrounds and
your role at Brookfield?
>> Sure, Meredith. I joined Brookfield 9
years ago to help grow our real estate
investments with a focus in southern
Europe. Since then, we've been investing
quite a bit in real estate over here.
We've grown a big student business,
which we will talk about. We have been
investing in hospitality quite
intensively as well and have grown a big
logistics portfolio.
>> Thanks, Reuben. What about you? I've
been with Brookfield for about 7 years
based in Sydney, Australia. I head up
the real estate group here. So really
focused on the investing and the
portfolio management side similar to
Alberto. Historically in Australia we
had a large office business but more
recently we've really diversified into
alternatives. So retirement which is the
sale we'll talk about the avail business
but student accommodation logistics also
hospitality really looking towards those
alternative sectors going forward.
Speaking of alternatives we're here to
talk about a couple of deals Lenza and
AO that really touch housing in
particular and housing can be a very
broad sector. So do you mind giving us a
little bit of a backdrop here about the
current forces at play across housing
especially from your vantage point maybe
in the APAC region and how those are
influencing our thinking about real
estate there. It probably comes as no
surprise to anyone that's listening to
this podcast that global housing the
supply of housing the cost and the
affordability of those housing is one of
the biggest issues that most countries
around the world are facing. I think
from a Brookfield perspective, we have a
pretty unique vantage point because we
have such a large living business across
many facets from multif family to
student accommodation, seniors living
and things including hospitality. So we
get quite a broad range of what we touch
on. I think more and more what we're
seeing though is a large part of that
restriction is really focused upon the
inability to bring on adequate supply
and that's just a function of the cost.
Increasingly construction costs have
gone up. Financing is hard to get by.
Rents or prices that you need to sell
assets for increasingly goes up and up
and at the same time you're facing
government restrictions around planning
and delivery and restrictions around
potential subsidies to help bring on
that supply. That's definitely one theme
we're seeing out. The other is really
the shift towards more purpose-built
accommodation. And as we see
demographics around things like student
living, things like senior living,
things like the shift towards
urbanization, all of that is going to
become a lot more prevalent. Picking one
of them, senior living for example,
since the period after World War II,
we've now entered a stage where
effectively over the next two decades,
we're going to see the number of people
turning 65 effectively double their
historic averages. So they need places
to stay. They're an increasingly
affluent population. So the choices and
shift that they make is very important.
But it also means it frees up and
creates additional housing which can
then be used by that broader population
adding to that supply which will help
bring back into balance.
>> You bring up a really good point which
is demographic driven needs and they're
very different based on ages, based on
location, based on certain phases of
life. Just to make sure we're covering
this from a truly global perspective,
Alberto, are you seeing that kind of
influence as well where you sit that
demographic driven trend happening
across different age groups? Absolutely.
I think in Europe it's very similar to
what Ruven was describing. There has
been a lack of construction of
residential. So supply has been very
constrained and at the same time demand
has only been increasing. What we have
been seeing is those asset classes
becoming more focused on specific target
groups and that's where the trends
around senior living or around housing
really really grow. there is a huge
demand and that demand is more and more
looking for a professionally managed
supply that really really cater to those
specific demand plots. So I think that's
what we've been working on in trying to
build up that kind of supply that really
caters to those people.
>> Well, the interesting thing about
demographics and thinking about their
housing needs is we know how many people
there are of various ages around the
world because it's data that's shared.
Maybe that's a little bit different than
other markets or other periods of time
that we happen to be in where things
surprise us. So, how do we think about
approaching that data set and then
evaluating more specifically why these
are attractive investments for
Brookfield? Can you bring us through
that thinking a little bit?
>> I'll bring it to specific examples. So
if we set ourselves 10 years ago at
Brookfield in Europe when we decided to
come into the student housing, there was
a few factors there that really made the
asset class interesting. But the
critical one really is that supply
demand imbalance which we have been
mentioning for a few times now. There
was a clear on the one hand a static
picture with a big supply demand
imbalance. provision rates were below
10% across most of the UK and
continental European geographies but the
supply was unprofessionalized not
purpose-built not modern it didn't cater
to the students it was unprofessional in
the way it was managed portfolios were
small so there was no one really with a
scale that would allow them to operate
this in an efficient way and with
significant knowhow so that was on the
supply side on the demand it was
definitely growing. You would see
highquality universities across the UK,
across continental Europe attracting
more and more international students. So
you had a static picture with a big
supply demand imbalance. Supply was
unprofessional. demand was only growing
and that's where we saw the opportunity
and started investing in it initially in
the UK with student roost which we then
subsequently sold and then with Germany
France and Spain with our three
platforms international campus oxo and
the events living have been investing in
the sector for now 10 years and we
continue to think it's a great
opportunity
>> you mentioned student roost and this is
something that tends to happen at
Brookfield we'll find something in one
place and we really start to build these
platform form businesses more broadly.
Are there any things that we learned or
things that stand out to you about that
student roost experience that we were
able to carry over to Levenza when the
time was right?
>> As you say, this is one of the key
competitive advantages that we have at
Brookfield. First of all, if you built a
modern spec highquality building that
was prepared for students, students
would come. So once you build up supply,
the demand will come to your asset.
Secondly, we learned that if you build
the right portfolio of assets, but also
the associated operating platform and
had enough scale that would take you to
maximize NOI, run the assets
efficiently, be able to implement best
practices, etc. So from an operational
point of view, you would really maximize
the performance of those assets. And
third and probably even more importantly
is if you put those two first factors
together and build up an integrated
owner operator of PBSA purpose-built
student accommodation that had capacity
to grow. It had the best operational
practices. It would really attract
institutional capital. Therefore, our
business at the end of the day is
creating these companies in order to
sell them to more institutional capital
longer term with lower cost. And that's
what we managed to do in Roost and
that's what we felt very comfortable at
the time to rebuild across these three
other countries and more specifically
with Lensai Liberia. Thinking about that
backdrop coming into Levenza and this
has not been a short journey per se.
What happened having all those lessons
learned from student roost building them
into this opportunity with Levenza and
this partnership? What was the outcome?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I'll go
back to the actual transaction itself
because I think that is also a great
reflection of how we try to do things
and some of the advantages that we have.
The seat portfolio of what was Levena we
acquired through a very you know highly
structured transaction that we were able
to negotiate on a bilateral basis with
an US-based counterpart thanks to the
fact that we're global and we had the
right connections over there. We knew
the sector because we had been in Roost.
So we felt comfortable coming into it
and we were a safe counterpart in terms
of executing that transaction. They were
very comfortable in dealing with us on a
bilateral basis. What the structure
allowed us to do is first of all
gradually grow the portfolio from three
assets basically to what then became 22
after a number of years and 9,000 beds
becoming one of the largest student
housing owner operators in Iberia.
Secondly, what it allowed us to do is
while we were getting delivered some of
these assets and we knew we were going
to achieve enough scale, we had the time
to create the operating platform
associated to those assets. The reality
is the operating capabilities of a steel
housing in Spain were almost
non-existent at the time. So, we really
felt like we had to build our own
operating platform. What does that mean?
That means growing from 20 employees to
almost 200 full-time employees. It means
setting up the right processes. It means
implementing the best practices, setting
up the right IT infrastructure, etc. And
all of those things we really were only
capable of doing because we had had
previous experiences in other
geographies that allowed us to know what
the best practices are. Great example of
this is we actually brought in a
Brookfield person as the CEO of Leventsa
Living, the colleague called CJ
Slicklin. Over these last couple of
years, we were able to grow revenue per
bed by around 45%. We were able to grow
the portfolio up to the 22 assets,
maximize margins, and therefore
ultimately were able to market this
platform and find the right capital for
it going forward. So very successful
story.
>> Levenza was really a build fundamentally
and it's also a very human experience
ccentric application. Going from 3 to
22, especially in Spain, are they all in
the same place? Universities only exist
where they exist. So how are we able to
spread that knowledge around at
different locations?
>> Yeah, absolutely. It's a portfolio of 22
assets across 11 cities, not just in
Spain actually, also in Portugal. But
our presence is, I would say,
diversified across the main student
cities in both Spain and Portugal. So
the good thing is about 50 to 60% are in
tier one cities. So Madrid, Barcelona,
Valencia, Lisbon, Porto and then the
remainder is in very very powerful
student markets where again we knew the
dynamics because it's basically a
replica of other markets at the end of
the day where there is lack of
professional supply. There is huge
demand and there is that need for these
students to actually find a place to
live where they're going to be safe,
they're going to have fun, they're going
to have great experiences. And as you
say, it's not just about the assets, but
it's actually a very human experience
that you need to provide the students
because it's a critical time for them in
their lives and they will always
remember where they actually stay during
their student years.
>> Yes. And speaking of the human
experience, that's a good jumping off
point, Reuben, for AO and thinking about
this is a population at a very different
phase in their lives, but a very
important and pivotal transition time
typically. And my sense is that Aveo was
a bit more of a contrarian investment at
that time. Maybe it wasn't such a
obvious or intuitive play. Can you give
us a bit of a background about coming
into that transaction at the time?
>> Yeah, I guess Alberto had the benefit of
being able to grow a company and mold it
as it was. Aveo was very much the
opposite end of that spectrum where we
took a very broken and challenged
business and used our operational
expertise to turn it around. A veil was
a listed business on the Australian
stock exchange. We ended up being able
to purchase it at a 38% discount to its
net tangible assets. It had traded down
60 to 70% over the prevailing year while
we were looking at it. And the main
reason for that was it had gone through
the equivalent of a 60 minutes expose in
terms of some of their practices, unfair
contracts, transparency. The residential
housing market in Australia had slowed
down, which meant it put pressure on
their sales. As a listed business, it
had very typical short-term focuses on
earnings instead of a more of a total
return approach. Meaning they had done
things like not invested the capex in
the assets. They were doing things like
bringing on short-term developments and
realizing profits at a time when the
product was completed as opposed to when
the product was sale. And management was
very much not focused. They'd gone into
four or five different business lines
including offshore expansion,
residential development, things that
were not directly relevant to their core
business. So with all of that, why was
it interesting to us? And the answer was
they had great real estate. They had 92
villages located in great infill metro
locations that were on average 20 to 25
years old, which meant the urban sprawl
and the ability to replicate that
portfolio was basically impossible. So
if you took away the noise around what
was going on and just thought about the
core real estate, it was something we
knew with our operational expertise we
would be able to unlock.
>> So Ruben, I remember you telling me this
happened right before what ended up
becoming the co pandemic. So I'm just
curious, did that present an additional
layer above and beyond our original plan
that we didn't expect in taking on that
business? As you could imagine with a
resident cohort whose average age is 83,
84 years old in the middle of a
pandemic, it certainly was probably a
curveball we didn't expect. But that
being said, I often get asked this
question of how did co impact the
business plan. And I think the reality
is the business model itself proved
quite resilient. We took a very resident
first focus where we made sure that all
our residents were safe, the security,
the protocols to get in and the care
that was available. We spent a lot more
than we anticipated to make sure that
resident experience was very good. But I
guess where it actually impacted us was
when we took over the business. We did
have a CEO in mind. We were going to
replace the management team. That was
always part of the plan. But that CEO
actually said, "Well, I can't abandon my
post in the middle of the biggest crisis
the company has ever faced." So it
actually meant that us as Brookfield
employees, similar to what Alberta
mentioned, got injected into the
company. And it really fasttracked our
business plan, how we thought about it.
And we actually did end up
re-underwriting the business plan as a
virtue of the nine months we spent with
a lot of key executives in the business
to really deal with that.
>> Reuben, it's been six years since the
beginning of co and ultimately that
journey has felt longer to some than to
others. But how did things ultimately
turn out with AO?
>> We've just sold a business. It's the
largest real estate transaction in
Australia. So we're very happy with the
outcome, but more importantly the
business and where we've left it. I sort
of described it was very challenged
business. But during our hold period, we
did 50 non-core disposals that included
both villages but also non-core
residential sites, age care sites, etc.
So we took the asset from 92 villages
down to 65. Really focused on the higher
quality east coast larger scale assets.
We spent $500 million worth of capex on
the portfolio to really enhance the
resident experience. Make the assets
better quality which led to 10% peranom
price growth yearon-year for the 5 1/2
years that we owned the business.
Occupancy went from close to 80% to near
full occupancy with extremely high
resident MPS scores. So I think going
through it a lot of what the changes
that were impacted really made the
platform the standout platform to own
Australia. really the quality of the
platform was the thing that attracted
the most people because I think when
Brookfield goes into it while economics
and return are important, it is the
governance we put in, the capex we
spend, the technology that we put in to
really make it a ongoing thing which
will allow it to then continue to scale
and grow beyond that. And Reuben, I
would add to that being two very
different businesses in terms of where
they come from and where they got to, I
think the common lesson you can probably
take from these both companies is that
to the extent that you during the
journey focus on just really improving
the operating performance of the assets
and at the same time have the right
platform around it that is in the right
sector, has the right ecosystem, the
right team members that has capacity for
growth. That's what generally makes a
great business and what attracts then
institutional capital to come into a
more of a longer run play for them.
>> And that's a great point, Albert. full
credit to our management team as well,
but I think the ability to bring
together a team that wants to work with
a type of sponsor like a Brookfield
where they know they will get the
opportunity to both work with us but
drive a plan, have the freedom to do it,
have the capital to do it and contribute
to that business plan and growth as
well. That's the key, right? At the end
of the day, it's capital, it's people,
it's being back to get on and do with
it. And I think that's something that
we're very lucky to do here at
Brookfield. Yeah, because to your point,
I mean, these are in different regions,
two populations, both at transitions in
their lives, but very different
transitions. And ultimately, there's a
lot of commonality here, as you say,
Alberto, and what makes a really great
long-term business, and ultimately the
kinds of priorities that humans have for
where they live, where they call home,
what is most important to them. I would
love to know one of the most interesting
random things you learned about, let's
say, students and what they care about
in their housing versus seniors and what
they care about in their housing. What
are the things that are most crucial and
unique in their homes and living spaces
that we might not think of?
>> I'd say two things. One more from the
student perspective and the other one
from our point of view and things that
we learned throughout the process while
operating this. I think one of the
critical points for students was what we
called the student life program. Again,
you're not just providing a space for
them where to live the whole experience
for them, creating new friends, meeting
new people, doing new activities and you
are a vital part of that. You need to
provoke a lot of those things happening.
So a lot of the focus of the people that
were in the residence was really
creating that student life experience
very very critical and also what is
great is it creates attachment to the
asset attachment to the brand. It helps
with rebooking rates. We often said our
best advertisers were the students that
were living in our residences. Second
and I think what is critical probably
Ruben will relate to this as well for
those guests. Let's call them that way.
It is very important to know they have a
serious counterpart, a professional who
is managing their asset, who is keeping
the building in good status, who's
putting the necessary capex, who's
replacing the who's working with them on
the again the student life experience.
So there is a price that needs to get
paid for it. But the actual experience
safety, it is way better than just going
to private rental where you don't know
who you're actually dealing with and you
have to set up your own utilities and
your own gym and you don't really know
anyone beyond who is living with you.
>> I can imagine that translates to a level
of consideration and care for the space
they call home that a smaller company or
a smaller size landlord would be hard to
deliver. Well, that's exactly what I was
going to hit on, which is at the end of
the day, this is people's space or home
or whatever it is. Alberto and I have
the benefit of being able to invest
across all asset classes. With living,
you can clearly see that people care
more about these things and they want
people who care about these things as
well. So, as part of the process, we got
invited to both sit down. We had all of
our board meetings and we had the
resident committees join us and
basically a lot of the times these are
very well educated people who have had
really interesting life stories and a
lot of the times they just want to be
heard and the things that they have on
their list to talk about are really
important to them and a lot of the time
is just being heard. We had the AO
awards which was for the employees and
at the villages and at different parts
and the type of people you meet and
they're very different to say the normal
real estate or finance type of people.
They're just wired differently. So I
think understanding that and making sure
that you're providing the support,
you're giving people the chance to grow
because that is at the end of the day
with increasingly operational
businesses, you need to deliver on what
your tenants or your customers want. And
I think in living it is as hidened as
can be because often you are dealing
with people who are students aren't
always generally the main people to
listen to neither elderly residents. So
I think it is a big part of that being
heard, being able to integrate in the
community and really making people feel
that this is their home and they're not
just renting or a small part of a
community. Not only listening to that
feedback, but really acting on it
ultimately creates the flywheel effect
you're describing, which is the more
satisfied and cared for and considered
the population feels, the more likely
they are to stay or to recommend it to
the next.
>> Absolutely. And I think Alberta hit it,
but our net promoter scores were
terrible when we took over. And it was
really just a disconnect of corporate
management never came to the villages,
but at the same time, they weren't
empowering the village managers to do
anything. So there was a big disconnect
where simple things just weren't getting
resolved because no one was sure who to
talk to and that just led to
frustration. You fix some of these small
things because you actually think about
what's important and suddenly people are
very happy and they're not major
changes. They're often not that
expensive, but it's just very logical as
to what people care about. Is there
anything else that you both of you
uncovered in the course of these
experiences that stuck with you,
surprised you? Do you remember really
learning about that you didn't expect to
through the course of the experience? I
think the old adage is the only thing
inevitable in life is change. And I
think going into ao especially through
co and the multiple times we underrode
and reunderrode. I think the key
takeaway for me was going into these
more operationally intensive businesses,
you've got to have flexibility. You've
got to have teams that can think about
things differently and evolve as
situations, circumstances, things
change. And you've got to have enough
levers in your underwrites that you know
that you can adapt and you can pivot if
you need to. You just can't be fixated
on this is the only way to do things and
not pivot if things change. And I
wouldn't say that surprised me, but I
think the reality of how that played out
in this under was pretty clear to me.
>> I think Robin touched on a very very
critical point, which is teamwork at the
end of the day. It's only through that
that you're able to get the right people
to deliver the right customer experience
which is as you were pointing out
Meridith is what's going to direct you
well to then have the right financial
performance because ultimately we can
never lose sight of the actual objective
of these companies which is being very
very profitable but the only real way to
drive revenue to have pricing power in
these kind of businesses is to provide
the right experience and also keeping an
eye on the cost efficiency often Often
times you can make better pricing
decisions, achieve better margins by
providing the right experience, not
spending in things that are not going
anywhere, but actually on the items that
are going to make a real difference.
>> I learned a ton today and now I know who
to come to when I have questions about
housing. Thank you both for your time
today. It was great to talk to you.
>> Thanks, Meredith. Really appreciate it.
Thanks, Aida.
>> Thank you so much.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation
