[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IC Capital offers
intuitive, scalable digital solutions
that have transformed how private market
and hedge fund investments are bought
and sold. With I Capital, financial
adviserss, wealth managers, and asset
managers around the world now have
access to everything they need to
deliver the return and diversification
potential of alternatives to high-n
networth investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, host Bill Kelly
welcomes Aaron Philbeck of the Kaya
Association for a wide-ranging
discussion on the growing momentum
behind expanding access to private
market investments within retirement
plans. They explore the implications of
a recent executive order focused on 401k
access, the structural differences
between DB and DC plans, and the
potential benefits and risks of
democratizing private market exposure.
The conversation probes the importance
of fiduciary responsibility, the role of
innovation in target date funds, and the
evolving narrative around long-term
investing and investor protection.
[Music]
>> Aaron Philback, welcome to Educational
Alpha. Great to be back, Bill. A very
interesting conversation ahead. We're
going to be talking about democratized
access and I use a past tense for
democratized and I think it is a genie
that's out of the bottle and we're going
to cover that in a moment. But to get
right to the heart of the matter, I
often ask guests to give a little bit of
the background in street cred. But
you're probably a third of my age with
10 times the credentials and so many
accomplishments. It's bad form to
embarrass the host. So, I'm going to
skip over the details, Aaron, but maybe
just allow you to introduce yourself to
the audience.
>> I think that's a perfect introduction.
We can leave it right there. In all
seriousness, just to keep it brief, I
started my career in the wealth
management space, managed client
portfolios for a number of years and
then joined Kaya just over six years ago
and I've bounced around a lot of
different roles within the association.
sat on our curriculum team for a number
of years, led our unify by Kaya learning
platform that we developed four or five
years ago and now I sit in a position
where I lead a team that is focused on
how we present ourselves in the
marketplace. So, marketing, brand,
thought, leadership, community and so on
and uh really engaging with the broader
industry across all of those different
media and also a podcast host myself.
So, it's a podcast about a podcast.
excited to be here.
>> Excellent. Well, success has as many
parents uh failures and office as the
saying goes. But I'm going to take the
credit for having hired you in the first
place and it was one of the very best
investment decisions I've made because a
big part of Kaia's remitt is to try to
put the client first. Something that you
absolutely wear on your sleeve, Aaron.
So, thanks for bringing that
intelligence to Ka
>> and I'm eternally thankful for you
hiring me, Bill. And it's amazing the
power of social media, how it can bring
people together and we probably never
would have crossed paths 20 years ago,
but today it's totally accessible. So I
very appreciative.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So we'll move out of
the category of mutual love affair and
on to uh the business at hand. So, it's
interesting with this executive order
that is now, as of two days ago, it's
only 30 days old and it was entitled
democratizing access to alternative
assets for 401k investors. And I have a
couple of maybe opening bids about what
it purported to do and what it is going
to do. And maybe I'll start with that
and get some of your reaction. And when
you think about an executive order, you
think about this weighty document. I put
it into a word count and a word cloud.
It's only a thousand pages long, about
the same length as a blog post you or I
would write. And I think the premise up
front is one I've heard from so many GPS
in this industry that this could almost
have been written by a lobbyist. And
maybe it was. But the opening premise is
so grossly flawed and it brings up the
tired argument that why should the
firefighter and the police officer in
Texas have access to alts and the poor
accountant doesn't because the poor
accountant is dealing with their 401k
plan. And if somebody said you had to
answer that question fair or unfair with
no caveats to it, I think most people
would be forced to say it's unfair. But
there is a massive butt attached to that
which is the firefighter and the police
officer has a fiduciary standing behind
them. They have a contractual
relationship with that fiduciary where
there's a hundred cents in the dollar in
their mailbox every two weeks from date
of retirement to date of death and maybe
even on a second to die basis for
spousal sharing of those benefits. We as
individuals in the 401k plan do not have
that. We don't have a fiduciary. We have
a fiduciary that's deciding what the
offerings are and that's a lot of what
this executive order is offering. But to
think that that puts us on parallel
footing with the DB plan is just
outrageous. But that's how this
discussion began. And I just think that
there's danger associated with that. But
we could talk more about what it is and
where it's going in a moment. But maybe
I'll just pause there to get your
visceral reaction to either what I said
or your opening bit about what this
executive order is purporting to do.
>> Yeah, I don't know that I disagree at
all with you, Bill, and that assessment.
And in fact, I think that the argument
is somewhat flipped in terms of where
we're at today. And by that, I mean,
we've started very much with what we're
putting in these plans and the products
that are in these plans rather than
talking about the plans themselves. And
I almost think that we're having the
wrong argument to some degree where we
have had this move from DB to DC. And to
your point, the DB plans still have that
level of sophistication and fiduciary
management that's attached to that.
Whereas the DC plan, it's a very wide
dispersion of sophistication of plan
sponsors and participants and you don't
have that centralized fiduciary
management. And I think that's a more
interesting conversation for us to be
having. we might end up in the same
place which is better access to product
and a wider tool set that's available to
plan participants but I think we've got
to flip that conversation a little bit
and talk more about the structure of
retirement and what that actually means
for participants in the 21st century. I
absolutely agree with that and it's not
only talk about the structure but the
rappers as well because these all do
matter and not that would ever happen
but if Trump rang me up as opposed to
the local lobbyist and asked me to write
the executive order I think the guidance
and it's important to use the word
guidance he can't mandate anything an
executive order cannot create law so
he's asking the do in maybe concert with
the SEC to look at and come back with
advice guidance etc. But he's not trying
to codify law. But had he asked me to
write it, I think I could have reached
the same conclusion to some degree. But
it has to be brought along in language
and terms maybe Aaron that you just
alluded to. And I think about where
innovation is happening, where the
economy is going, what is driving that
economy. A lot of it is moving more and
more to the private markets. How and
when that ends, I don't know. But there
is so much liquidity in well maybe less
than there was but there is a fair
amount of liquidity in the private
markets that companies are not going
public anymore and I think there's some
benefits to that construct and I do
point and I've mentioned this in other
podcasts you look at anybody that's
built a substantial amount of wealth. I
would say nine times out of 10, put
aside the ones who have inherited it.
Being born on third base is always an
awesome place to be, but the vast
majority of them have started and sold a
private company. So, it can be in the
right hands of wealth builder. And if I
could find an agent that could act on my
behalf to go and sort through this
morass of opportunities and get me into
the very right investment solutions in
the right rapper, it's a home run. And
last point, and I'll pause to get your
input. Some of the things I've done in
my retirement years, and I'm trying to
redefine what exactly that means. I
joined Star Mountain Capital as a senior
adviser because I really do like the
space, and I'm getting to know uh Brett
and his team, but I went back before we
spoke today to remind myself of this
lower middle market, which is defined by
companies in the 5 to $50 million
revenue range. It's a substantial
percent of GDP. a substantial percent of
jobs in the USA. And if you go down the
sidewalk in any small town USA, get past
the Starbucks and the bank. But every
one of those businesses is a small
business owned by an entrepreneur. And
who is the majority owner? The baby
boomer. And the baby boomer is now 60 to
90 plus. But I saw a stat where almost
90 plus% of them have no succession
plan. there is a tremendous opportunity
in the real economy to allocate capital
and I think that is the story not so
much well postman can do this but you
can't ridiculous
to your point this isn't an enforcable
law by any means but I do think that the
framing around this is important again
we might arrive at the same conclusion
at the end of the day and maybe the law
ends up being the same at the end of the
day but I think the spirit in which it's
laid out and I agree with you in terms
of how we frame it. It's access to
broader parts of the economy, whether
that's private companies, whether it's
loans that you can't get access to
through the banks or through the public
markets. That is a much more compelling
conversation to be having of look, we've
got participants who are employed by
these companies. They should also be
able to invest in these companies. But
the way it's been framed at the moment
is very much a product thing, which is
good for the industry, but I'm not quite
sure that it's the right framing for
participants who aren't really thinking
about product at the end of the day.
They're thinking about can I retire? Am
I going to have enough money to last me
the rest of my life? And that's a very
different conversation to be having, not
clamoring for this PE fund versus this
private credit fund. I don't think
that's on the hearts and minds of the
rest of America, if you will.
>> And I can absolutely relate to what you
just said, Aaron. As a newly minted
semi-retire,
I think there's a lot of compelling
reasons to invest wisely, start early,
diversify your portfolio, but outcome
oriented solutions. How do you spend
down from that balance sheet without
feeling guilty? And maybe it's latent
lapsed Catholic guilt on my behalf that
uh you're afraid to touch principle for
any reason and I think there should be
more emphasis on outcome oriented
products too that might be a very good
home for some of these private market
options. Jumping back to the starting
point with the executive order I think
one observation could be this too shall
pass. And again, I'm going to be writing
a blog post on this and not to turn it
into a civics lesson, but going all the
way back to George Washington, who
issued one during his time in office,
one executive order. There have been
over 14,000 of these issued. And uh
Trump and the Trump administration,
well, I guess it's Trump because he
issues them. He's on a bit of a tear. He
did 220 in his first four years in
office. He's already over 200 this time
around. and he's issued close to 20
since this executive order on the 401k
plan. And maybe even more interesting is
that I believe I had these numbers
directionally correct that when Biden
came in between the two Trump
administrations in his first 100 days,
he reversed 60 of Trump's executive
orders and then Trump sort of back at
you reversed 80 of Biden's in his first
100 days in office. So, I think one
attitude could be, well, it's not law
and somebody's going to reverse this
somewhere down the line. And I think you
and I have similar thoughts in this, but
I'll park the question and you can
respond. I would say anybody that says
this is going to be reversed somewhere
down the line. I would say not so fast
to very unlikely. The guidance to the DO
is 180 days, 6 months, well before the
midterm elections. And the moment this
gets put in place, and there's a lot of
lobbyist dollars that are going to
really be pushing for this to happen,
this being democratized access, I would
put it in the category of impossible to
get that genie back in the bottle. Once
the 401k participant, the poor
accountant is now allocated to private
equity in their 401k plan and we've set
up rules around limiting litigation risk
to the plan fiduciary, I think it's
going to be near impossible to turn the
hands of time back.
>> So, a couple of threads there that I'll
pick up on. So, one is the idea of 180
days. Trump in particular hasn't been
very successful with actually getting
things done in the time frames that he
originally lays out. So, we'll see. That
could be something that gets pushed
back. Tik Tok's a really good example of
that. There's been a couple of others
that we kind of punt. Tariffs, we kind
of punt down in time. The other point,
which I think is really important, is
this reversal. When you get a new
administration that comes into office
and they say, "I'm not going to do what
the last guy did and reverse this
through an executive order." And I think
that that is why the legal part of this
is so important and bipartisan support
is also so important in order to do
this. And you can paint that brush on
define contribution space. He's also
been very adamant on the crypto space as
well. So all these initiatives despite
maybe some are well-intentioned, maybe
some are not, until you get bipartisan
support and laws that are passed in
Congress to do something to move this
forward in a more sustainable measure,
it's going to be very confusing both for
the participant but also for the broader
industry and might actually hold back
some of that momentum and animal spirits
that we've seen on some of these
different announcements. The third thing
I'll say and I'll pause here is again
back to the sentiment and the way things
are framed is important because there's
been a lot of ideas in the past that
maybe didn't make it into law. Maybe
it's part of a platform on either side
of the aisle or it's a presidential
platform but they start to kind of
become normalized in the way that we
talk about certain issues. So on the
left it could be minimum wage, it could
be Medicare for all. These things were
radical things 15 20 years ago and it's
become part of the normal conversation
today and obviously hasn't made a lot of
movement from a legal perspective but I
would say the same thing on things like
crypto and defined contribution plans.
We've started the conversation and so
back to your point you can't put it back
in the bottle. It's going to morph and
change over time and until we get some
kind of legal precedent around it I'm
not quite sure where that goes. If you
look at I mentioned the reversal in the
subsequent administration for these EOS
even Trump's 200 plus a fair percentage
of those are currently being challenged
in the courts or have active litigation
in front of them but I look at the power
and velocity of capital and capitalism
and it is a very very powerful force and
we're talking about trillions of dollars
in motion here and a lobbyist group that
is just salivating to had access and if
this gets fasttracked there will be
litigation no doubt and ultimately if it
ends up in the appeals circuit in the
fifth district in New Orleans we've
already seen what happens there it
eventually work its way to the Supreme
Court and I think most of these justices
already have a nice DB plan themselves
and if they fall in love with Trump's
opening argument which I think is easy
to do yeah they should have access let
them have it so that's why I think that
there will be challenges is things move
at a pace and there is reasons that this
may slow down but I just think it's
going to accelerate and one area that I
find interesting and maybe as an
opportunity we could talk maybe more a
little bit about potential solutions and
you might have some thoughts and I wrote
on this subject a little bit recently
too but it seems to be a consensus of
what I'm reading is the collective trust
vehicle inside of a non-depository trust
company has resonance already it doesn't
have any limitation on illquid holdings
and I think that there is a big push to
think about these co-mingleled vehicles
inside a non-depository trust company
and a lot of law firms that advise the
management industry. It seems like it's
moving in that direction. And so I don't
know if you've seen any title shifts in
the near term or other solutions you
might have on your mind, but these
collective investment trusts known as
CITs, I think we're going to start to
see every asset manager and their sister
and brother having those as part of
their offering. And this kind of goes
back to what I was doing before joining
Kaya, but you sit in front of plan
sponsors and you walk through the fund
menu and participant data and who's
contributing, who's not contributing,
what's the average contribution, and you
can kind of break the 401k participant
space into two major groups. One is the
do-it-yourselfers. Those are the ones
that are actively contributing and
investing and picking their funds and
building their own portfolios. And then
there's the non-doit-yourselfers, the
ones that require more of a parental
element to their experience in the 401k
space. I would say that the
do-it-yourselfers are a minority and
that is becoming increasingly the case
over time. And I would say even not just
on the investment side but as an
industry we have evolved how the 401k
space experience changes from
participation rates autoenrollment
default investment options. Most people
just don't pay it any mind and any
attention all the way from participant
levels and auto escalations moving your
contribution up from 5 to 6 to 7% every
year so you just don't notice. pay
yourself first without actually paying
yourself first. It shows you the mindset
and the mentality of most 401k
participants, which isn't a bad thing.
And so when I think about the investment
solution that makes the most sense if
we're going to do this, it is to put it
in whether it's a CIT or it ends up
being in a 40act fund, some kind of
multi-asset diversified solution that
could be risk based. It could be age
based like target date fund solutions,
but it's managed for you on behalf of
you by investment professionals who have
the access, the scale, and the
capability to access a lot of these
different asset classes. I know you've
taken an alternative solution, which
I'll let you talk about, which I think
is also a very good solution for the
do-it-yourselfers, but if you're trying
to get the most amount of people
invested in this space without doing any
more work in order to do so, that would
be the parental solution that I would
advise. But Bill, I won't steal your
thunder. I'd love to hear your thoughts
as well.
>> There's a lot there and try to limit
myself to 40 minutes or less with my
answer, but it's interesting. The
ultimate I could do it myself statement
is these self-directed brokerage
accounts which are inside of many 401ks.
I think surveys show most shouldn't say
most but good majority 40 plus percent
surveyed offer it. The number could be
higher or lower but it's a substantial
percentage. The actual investors picking
that up and utilizing it less than 1%.
But maybe in terms of your other point
about investors recognizing they need
help, the default option in many many
cases is the target date fund, the TDF,
and investors recognize that that's
providing some level of asset
diversification for them that's aged
appropriately. And I think we have to go
back and look at that because in the
good old days, moving more toward fixed
income at 65 when you could live another
30 years is kind of crazy. So I think
we've got to maybe rejigger the thought
process in the TDF space as well. Maybe
just as a quick side note, part of the
industry siren song. It was not
necessarily specifically stated in
Trump's executive order, but maybe by
inference, and I've heard many very
senior recognized GPS say this, this
6040 is dead to me, and it should be
dead to you as well. I think it's a
foolish statement, not helpful to the
end investor, and it's a scary
statement. We're basically saying to
them, the approach that you've taken for
investments and your parents have taken
toward investing is now wrong in debt.
And how do I react to that? Well,
they're a lot smarter than I am. They
have much greater access to where the
risk premier is. I'm very scared and I
think I have to listen to them. And I
brought this up before that 2022 aside,
the 6040 is a very, very hard index to
beat. Pick any 10-year window and it's
averaged 7%. Pick any 10-year window,
it's never ever ever been negative. So,
I think that we've got to say to most
investors that will be okay and it might
be the right position for you because
there's riskadjusted returns, but you
have to look at each individual investor
and see how risk seeking or riskadverse
that they are. And individually, even
people like you and I, Aaron, and I
would put us in the more sophisticated
camp, we don't have all the answers. But
if we can have convening power with the
other Aarons and bills, and collectively
create a sovereign wealth fund, and I've
got now one of the most gifted managers
who needs to be appointed and hired, and
I think that should be part of the DO
and SEC's charge to say, well, we should
try to recognize the convening power of
these individuals. very similar to what
tiff has done, very similar to what the
common fund has done where they say
universities endowments that are too
small don't have the staff and the
sophistication, the ability to do due
diligence. Same thing with tiff and the
foundation space. Why can't we do that
with us as individuals and if you
reverse engineer these assets that
everybody is salivating over by most
estimates the 401k DC space is $9
trillion. Self-directed IRA gets it up
to 15 trillion. Compare that to the size
of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority or
Yale's endowment or Norway sovereign
wealth fund. Multiples of that. So if we
could have the convening power of
collectively pulling this together,
hiring professional managers, they could
find the best investments, they could
beat the other side up against it on a
very best fee basis on a most favored
nation. And I would allocate to a fund
like that yesterday. But is that what
the industry wants? No. And I think if
we come up with a solution and the
industry is not at least mildly
squawking about it, it's not the right
solution. It should be something that is
very uncomfortable for them. And what is
very comfortable for them is a land grab
of the target date fund space. There's
this big fat pitch that is holding 40
50% of the defined contribution assets.
Let's just allow no more limitations.
right now is a 15% illquid limitation in
the Rick space for target date funds.
Let's just open it up and make it
unlimited. Foolish I would say as maybe
a headline. Foolish. Why? Because the
very best long only equity manager is
not very good at picking the best
private equity manager. Why does Kaya
exist? Because the dividend discount
model does not work for the CFA. So it's
a very different investment approach and
it requires a very very different skill
set and to think that well the lead
manager will hire KA or an analyst and
off it it doesn't work that way. Even if
it does if it's a fund that's even a
couple billion dollars are they really
going to be able to get the right deal
when performance dispersion is so wide
you could drive a massive truck through
it. So a solution like that should have
resonance and whether it does or not I
don't know. I likely think that we'll
get no pickup and we're going to end up
with opening up the target date fund.
But maybe some of your thoughts.
>> Yeah. Well, again, a lot there to
respond to, but I think your last point
goes back to how we open the
conversation, which is is this the right
argument that we're having right now?
Should we be talking about getting
private markets into DC plans or should
we be talking about how do we
revolutionize the DC market? Whether
it's some of the examples that you threw
out, you know, Australian super is a
really good example of defined
contribution market but sophisticated
management of the assets for different
participants within the country. I think
that is an interesting discussion that
we should be having and I'd love to see
some kind of executive order or
bipartisan support for how do we rethink
what retirement looks like. That may be
a bit pie in the sky in our current
situation, but I think worthwhile. So
that's response number one. Response
number two, I like the idea of a
self-directed fun window. You know, I
remember when we would build these plan
menus, the fund window was kind of out
of the jurisdiction of the fiduciary. So
that's always a risk for the
participant, but people knew that going
in and if they wanted to choose a really
aggressive leverage sector fund on the
fund lineup, go nuts. But it wasn't part
of the core menu. And I think that goes
back to the fact that many of these plan
sponsors are not actively managing the
fund menu. They are maybe on an annual
basis reviewing the options. It's a very
kind of long-term low turnover type of
business. And so you don't have the
manager selection teams that you have at
a pension that is constantly getting new
information and making decisions and
buying and selling a secondary market
transactions and so on. So I think that
is an interesting solution as well. I
would also love to see and again this I
guess is me ideiating of what it could
look like. But the target date fund
space again I think is a very good
solution for a problem that is very
clear. People don't want to pick their
own investments. They just want to set
it and forget it. It's a low turnover
part of the 401k space. So for all those
reasons it makes a lot of sense. But
wouldn't it be great if we could
innovate the target date fund space? so
that we're making decisions that are
more unique and specific to the
participant. So to your point, it could
be an allocation decision. I don't want
private markets or I'm not appropriate
for private markets. It could be the
lifestyle decision. So to your earlier
point on the de accumulation phase after
you've retired, there's been some
research and Michael Kitsies has done
some of this on the planning side of
there's the old two versus through
target date fund solutions where the two
is winding down to the least risky
allocation at the time of retirement
whereas through continues to derisk
through your retirement and you reach
that at a later point. Michael Kitsies
has talked about the V-shaped target day
fund solution where you get down to the
least risky point and then you start to
increase your risk because you need to
spend more, your health care costs go
up, you've got money that you're trying
to hand off to the next generation. So
that is an example of one. But being
able to build a customized solution that
may or may not have these different
investment options available to you
could be another solution cuz 6040 might
work just fine for some participants.
>> I absolutely agree with that last
statement and most of what you just
said. And I do want to talk about the
rapper because I think that matters a
lot too. In this blog post I've alluded
to that I wrote a couple of weeks ago, I
made the point, and I absolutely agree
with it myself, that if the late David
Swenson was given unlimited ability to
invest in any target date fund with
access to alternatives at zero fee,
would he opt for that over equity or
private equity allocations for the
Aeowment? And I would absolutely think
no way. He wouldn't do it for any fee
because he's not getting the exposure
he's seeking in the first place. And I
think these rappers do matter a lot.
Investing is for the long term and if we
create access to illlquid investments in
very leaky liquid buckets, it's going to
be a disaster. And I absolutely agree
with the point you made earlier Aaron
about these target date funds. I believe
when you look at staying power for the
average investor or shareholder in the
TDF, it is extraordinarily high in that
space, which is a very very good thing.
So I would not completely dismiss that
as a good opening spot to be thinking
about. But if we start offering greater
liquidity windows and emphasizing
liquidity as a feature of these
products, simply not going to work
because if the underlying is illquid, we
cannot have these liquid leaks on an
ongoing basis. And I don't think it's
very hard to say to an investor, we have
to talk about asset allocation in so
many ways, but let's talk about rings of
liquidity. And unless you have an outer
ring of money you absolutely are not
going to touch for a decade or a sleeve
that's going to be passed on to the next
generation or help support the
educational aspirations of to be born
grandchildren, you should be talking
about it in the first place. So I think
there's a mismatch of goals for the end
investor versus this aura that hey if
the firefighter is doing it you should
be doing it too.
>> Yeah. Back to the point on TDFs being a
good opening salvo. I don't think
anything changes when you introduce
these products into a target date fund
because you've already got investors at
their captive audience already. And so
from that perspective I think that's
great creating some kind of a rapper
that fits well into that space. I don't
know if it's some kind of hybrid between
a traditional draw down fund evergreen
structure but fits within maybe more of
a registered type of vehicle. I don't
know what that solution looks like. But
the fact that these savings vehicles are
long-term in nature and you've got
long-term investors in target date funds
that aren't selling when the market goes
down, I think all of that is positive
for introducing these different products
into TDFs. Maybe the challenge becomes
if you start to incorporate this onto
the core menu and people have the
ability to choose from a lineup of
different options and that's where you
might get some skittishness around
market draw downs or whatever. Final
thing I'll say and I'll turn back to
you. Obviously, a lot of the liquidity
events that happen in the 401k space are
due to life events. you lose your job,
you retire. That's a huge event. And you
might roll something out of the
retirement plan into something more
self-directed. So, there's got to be
some kind of mechanism around that to
support life events. But by and large,
again, the non-doiters are there for the
long haul. And so, to your point, why
introduce products and rappers that go
against that? You should be fully
invested and try to get the full
experience of private markets if you're
going to do it in the first place. And
you know there's a couple of regulatory
risks too and no good deed should go
unpunished. I think regardless of what
comes out of this executive order I
think action is going to be one and we
will see greater access is my informed
prediction. But there are going to be
consequences unforeseen. And just as one
example, one thing I've learned is that
when I left KA, I took my small little
401k plan and rolled it into an existing
rollover account from other employers,
which fortunately as a credited investor
allows me greater access to a lot of
potential opportunities. But I talked to
my financial advisor about certain
things I've already done in my 401k with
illquid assets, and he's saying there's
something called the required mandatory
minimum distribution. I might not have
the acronym right, but the listeners
know what I'm talking about. Where the
IRS wants to tax that money and when I
get to 70 or 70 and a half, the required
minimum distributions I must take and
there's a math formula to it. I'm not
going to get into it because I don't
understand the inner workings of it. It
might be about 4%. But if I've got a
whole bunch of illquid holdings in
there, one, how do I sell these damn
things? But if I'm holding liquidity to
get out, how do I know what 4% is when
all of these other things are hard to
value? And if hindsight tells me I've
got it wrong, then there's no court of
appeals to go to. So, I mentioned just
one small window. And if we're trying to
jam this through this democratization
before the next midterm elections, I
just think there's going to be a lot of
consequences we're going to have to deal
with. And you can comment on that a
second, but I want to park one other
thing, Aaron, which is the litigation
risk in this space. We live in a very,
very ligious country. And there's a
whole army of lawyers that have this
concept of class action lawsuits. And
they can get one or two people that are
agrieved that lost a handful of dollars
and make people's lives miserable in
terms of creating these class action
lawsuits. And some of them might fall
into the nuisance category and you'll
settle. But the moment one of these is
mildly successful, these litigators are
going to be circling the wagons. And
Trump is no dummy on this. This
executive order addresses the litigation
risk. And how you solve for that less
sure. And if the answer is, well, if
you're a target date fund allocated to
alts, you can't be sued. Full stop. I
don't know how you codify that, but even
if you can, is that investor friendly?
No. And that's why I get back to my
elegant solution that the SEC has a blue
ribbon panel of the world's very best
asset allocators who are appointing just
a handful of managers for these big big
coingal funds. You can inoculate that
group from litigation as well. If
somebody wants to go outside of them,
all bets are off. So that's my solution.
You don't have to comment on that one
way the other. But the litigation risk
standing behind this regardless of what
happens with this EO ain't going away
anytime soon. And a fiduciary has
responsibilities for what they're
selecting on those plan options. And I
think that remains a very difficult
issue to solve for in 180 days.
>> Yeah. Well, not to create a whole
another podcast episode out of this
bill, but I think the RMD thing is
another structural liquidity event that
I was talking about, but maybe that's
where the tokenization conversation
comes into play. and how do you create a
liquid event with illquid assets and
maybe it's innovation around technology
but I'll stop there because I know we
could talk for half an hour on that
particular topic but yeah I think on the
litigation front and my colleague Claire
Sawyer and I wrote a piece late last
year on the pros and cons of private
markets and DC plans and she wrote this
section on litigation and the history
not even in alternatives but in the long
only space and it's there scattered
across multiple decades of class action
lawsuits. It's around things like fees
and it's around performance and
performance dispersion which are all
relevant characteristics of private
markets. And so I think that's why it's
so important from a legal perspective
whenever this does come up that it's
bipartisan and it's very clear on the
support that the participants will have
and what the sponsors will have and the
fiduciaries will have around all this
because no one knows where markets are
going. But you have to put in the
homework and structure things well
within those plans. If you don't have
that, then you just open yourself up to
lawsuits being sued by your constituents
and participants, which means that it's
not going to happen. People just don't
want to move forward with that. And
you've seen that move in the 401k space
so far where active management is very
small. It tends to be lowcost index
providers, which is fine. I mean, it's a
very good solution for many investors,
but you're kind of going backwards to
where it was before. And if you don't
have that support, it's not going to be
successful.
And I get back again to the convening
power of you and I as individuals and
when the doors to anti- rooms close over
these next 100 days and decisions are
being thrown around and ultimately made
where is our lobbyist who's representing
us in that inner sanctum. I just don't
know if they're there. And I think it's
worth repeating this because I I did go
back to the mission statement of both
the DO and the SEC as part of this blog
post I wrote. And Department of Labor's
responsibility is to foster, promote,
and develop the welfare of wage earners,
job seekers, and retirees of the United
States. And the SEC in quotes are
dedicated public servants who care
deeply about protecting the investing
public. Those are very weighty words and
words that I take at face value. There's
a tremendous responsibility that goes
along with that. But if we're talking
about naming conventions, and I did this
on purpose, and now is my window to
mention an Aaron. Talk about renaming
departments. I think we've got to be
talking about US Department of
Lobbyists, the security, and any
exchange you want, we'll do commission,
and the gulf, the gulf, and underscore
gulf of fiduciary duty. And that is the
reality. Somebody has got to be
protecting my interests when that door
is closed. And when the white smoke
comes out of the cyine chapel of the do,
it's got to be bellowing something that
is in my best interest. Last point, I'd
love to get your reaction to all of that
is I'm not talking about like Elizabeth
Warren, one of the senators in the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which is
over my dead body and millionaires and
trillionaires and they're going to
benefit from this. This is a very, very
difficult thing to solve. And I'll come
all the way back to where this
conversation began. Is access a good or
a bad thing? No butts. Good or a bad
thing? It is a good thing, but how we do
it, how we do it responsibly, how we do
it, the interests of the end investor
first and foremost at heart, which is
the ultimate definition of duty, I'm
less sure, but it's going to require
creative decisions, a lot of thought
process, and I think the capital
instincts of the GP have to be parked at
the front door. Yeah, I 100% agree and
can't believe you waited 40 minutes to
give me those new department names.
That's gold. Well done. It
>> was sitting here right in front of me
and I said, I'm going to find the
opening and uh and thank you for
allowing it to come in.
>> So Aaron, this is a rapidly developing
picture. Very appreciative that you and
the Kai Association remain on top of
this. Something that we need to pay a
lot of attention to. Ka is a big voice
but small amount of capital and I think
the opinions and what is advocating for
the protection of the end investor is
spoton. We just need to have more people
jumping on this to not say yes or no to
either side but find the consensus in
the middle where it's going to make
sense for everybody involved. And often
times those types of more elegant
solutions take more than 180 days and it
takes consensus from both sides and
there can't be winners and losers.
There's compromises that protect us at
the end of the day. So thank you for all
the great work that you do. There might
be a reason to do a follow-up
conversation on this because there's
going to be a solution in place or at
least a pathway toward one in now less
than 4 months. And I think it's worth
continuing to bang in this drum.
Absolutely. Well, thanks for having me
on again, Bill. Always a pleasure.
>> Thanks, Aaron.
>> Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the Kaya Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's cia.org.
See you next time.
