Turn me a little bit.
The rock a pocket full of
the G, the top, the drop, the swerve,
the pass, the props, the safe, the st,
the luck, the man, the myth, the legend,
the great, the plan. Get money till I'm
dead. Perfect.
>> That's a nice shot.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So today you own multiple
businesses
>> and I would say you are objectively
successful. I don't know if you think
you're subjectively successful but uh
>> try to describe the old you before
success became part of you.
>> So I wouldn't say I own multiple
businesses. I would say I'm a
shareholder. I'm a participant in
multiple businesses. I own shares in
multiple businesses alongside other
people that also own shares in those
businesses. And your question is try to
describe the version of me that has
enjoyed some success versus the previous
version I guess. Yes.
>> Before I uh had anything that could be
referred to as success.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> who was that guy?
>> Who was that guy? I mean
>> look it's interesting right because I
think like a lot of people you know we
see various versions of ourselves right?
So when you think about yourself in the
future, you think of yourself in various
uh formats. You know, you probably
envisit yourself in various types of
jobs um doing various types of work at
various, you know, degrees of success.
Right? In my case, I always saw myself
as a business owner and a business
leader and in sort, you know, some sort
of like leadership capacity. Now whether
those roles and those jobs were
specifically, you know, chairman, CEO,
founder,
um, minority shareholder, majority
shareholder, I didn't really grasp those
details. But I always knew that that was
part of my future in all likelihood, but
I had no evidence. And I think that's
the difference between in your earlier
years when you are, you know, seeking
traction, seeking some versions of
yourself that has outcome, uh, you have
no evidence. You're you're trusting your
instinct. Imagine imagine you know you
walk into a kitchen uh you know a
friend's home and there's a there's a
smell and you're trying to guess what is
that smell. You know what are they
cooking? You know something's cooking
but you don't quite know what's cooking
but it smells good. Those are the
success instincts and you try to you try
to follow those instincts and hopefully
you reach the outcomes that you want. So
what I would say is the biggest
difference is evidence. 15 years ago I
was um a similar personality still very
ambitious still very hungry I just had
zero evidence whereas now obviously I
have some evidence that I can do this
and I can achieve you know some levels
of success so I would say the the
biggest difference is evidence and
evidence comes through you know actions
and activities and some of those
activities some of those actions leading
to some versions of you know some
success. So I'm basically the same guy
just now with more evidence and also
more clarity. I also think you become
better at building a the next future
version of yourself. Right now I know
exactly you know the ingredients that it
takes to mold the next version of
myself. So in many ways I'm still
building because you know Oscar sees me
the me that I happen to be today but
what I see is the next version of me
>> and I'm taking the actions today seeking
the evidence tomorrow that then leads to
that next outcome.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't have that evidence yet
documenting that evidence. But it's
quite interesting because I saw um our
first vlog
>> and I was like you you you sound
different
>> and I was like I don't know if it was
because it was the first time we ever
recorded something and that was a little
bit uncomfortable but I I I see another
confidence in you today
>> compared to a year and a half years ago.
So, look, I I'll be honest in saying I
personally feel as if my momentum has
been picking up over the last 3 years.
This is just a feeling. It's a
sensation. I I feel as though things are
picking up. The the monsters that I'm
trying to tackle are bigger, right? The
goals are more ambitious. You know, 0 to
100 is the theme of the show. We're
trying to hit the 100. We have a
countdown. There are so many other
themes in my life. It's not the only
mon. It's not even the biggest monster.
That's the truth. But but I'm tackling
this monster as well as others, right?
And so I think I spent the last 2 and
1/2 years since I met you, Oscar. Let me
put it another way, Oscar. You know, why
why did we even start the show? It's
probably because I felt as if I was, you
know, mounting a horse and I was really
going to try to ride that motherfucker,
right? And I thought, hey man, we need
to document this, you know, and so I do
feel like there is a certain um momentum
picking up in my life. And I think over
the next year alongside the 0 to 100
journey, right? There's a ticker there.
It's an objective KPI, we're going to
have a scoreboard at the end of this
100. There's going to be other things
that I think we're going to be measuring
myself against as well. I think I think
the next year Oscar is going to be my
biggest year. Assuming uh no great
tragedy befalls me.
>> Oh no, let's don't let's not hope that.
>> Hey.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh cheers to no great tragedies
befalling us.
>> Yeah.
>> And great fortune.
>> Great fortune, sir.
>> Good to see you, man.
>> But I would love to meet you.
>> I appreciate it, bro.
>> No, you're welcome. Thank you, sir.
>> We got to sit down and chat more.
>> No problem. Yeah. Thank you.
>> Okay. Huh?
>> Okay. Good to see you guys. Huh? Thank
you so much. Thank you, sir.
>> Very good. Good to see you. Thank you so
much.
Thank you so much. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
>> How are you? Very good.
>> So, you haven't always been this clear.
So tell me about that transition. Did it
happen gradually or did you have to make
radical decisions to become who you are
today?
>> I think things happen slowly than
quickly, right? In the sense that for a
long time you know the direction you
want to go and you know what you want to
do. Uh you have a sense of what you're
trying to achieve but you're feeling in
the dark trying to figure out where to
focus. As time goes by and things start
to get a bit clearer, by again gathering
evidence,
experiencing some semblance of success,
however little, um you then form clarity
as to what your next steps are and
basically that the the path starts to
form itself in a way. Um so there are
some things that I've always been
interested in. I've always been
interested in business entrepreneurship,
business leadership. Um, I've always
been interested uh in politics, not
politics for politics sake, but in
trying to contribute and, you know, put
my fingerprint on my country. I'm from a
very small country and uh and I think
with a very little bit of inputs, you
can have great outcomes in many ways is
like a startup. So, I've always had that
interest. I've always been interested in
certain lifestyles. So, I've had these
interests, but I didn't have paths to uh
executing against those interests and
living uh in those interests, right? In
the in the footprints of those
interests. But more recently, over the
last 5 years, 4 years, 3 years, and
especially now, uh everything is clear.
I know exactly what I need to do this
year, next year, the year after. I know
exactly what I need to do over the
coming 2 3 4 5 6 years to start
fulfilling, you know, all of those
desires. The desires have always been
there. The path is not. And so as you
acrew evidence, things start to get
clearer. So now it's just pure execution
mode. It is now time to capture all of
the opportunities that I always wanted
for myself. Right.
>> Don't know if I answered your question.
>> One defining moment.
>> There is no defining moment at all.
There there are these um
>> I think a lot of people are waiting for
that. They're defining periods and
they're defining decisions. But the
point is it's only it's only defined in
hindsight. At the time it feels fuzzy.
At the time it feels like an off feeling
of, you know, I'm I'm aiming in this
direction. I feel I should be aiming in
that direction. Something's got to give.
And then you sort of uh you do something
that that that that sort of breaches
that axis and stop and and sort of
rectifies the alignment, right? So in my
case, there's been a few of those. One
of those was, you know, I was CEO uh of
our steel group. We were trying to take
that company public. Something just
didn't feel right. Did I really want to
be CEO of a public company? I mean, it
was a box I wanted to check. But
ultimately, that was a prison. And the
IPO failed, right? We never went public.
And that was my escape hatch. And I
said, "Look, I'm seizing this
opportunity and I never again personally
want to be a CEO. That's just not for
me." You know, I much prefer to set the
vision, put the team together, and
execute against the vision and and and
gather resources than be responsible for
day-to-day management cuz I'm a terrible
manager.
>> So, that was never I realized I gathered
evidence that suggested that that's not
who I am. So, luckily, I escaped that
trap through pure fate and luck. And
then that that sort of that breach
allowed me to start living this other
version of myself, right? Which is more
aligned with what I always wanted.
Freedom of mobility, uh the freedom to
speak to this camera at will. I don't
work for anyone. So I have freedom of
speech, freedom of will. And for me,
those freedoms is what I was always
searching for. So yeah, I feel I feel
very fortunate in that way.
So, this is the street I grew up on.
From 1993 to 2001, I grew up here. This
is my old hood. Uh, basically grew up in
this house. We still own this house. My
family. I'm actually not sure who's
staying here right now. Probably some
cousin or something. Who knows? Maybe
it's even empty. I don't know. Um,
there's for sure someone like taking
care of it or whatever. But this is this
is uh one of our family homes. This is
where I grew up.
would end up in my the school that I
went to. Uh it's it's it's down this
road on the left hand side, but we're
not going to go that path.
So, there's one entrance there, a a
separate entrance here
and there's another entrance here, but
but yeah,
>> wait, let me
>> No, it's okay. It's okay. Don't worry.
This is uh this is my mom's last house.
She passed away 2 years ago, but uh she
spent her last 5 years here and uh this
is a community that I've adopted. So,
I'm trying to do some philanthropic work
here and, you know, try to give back.
It's nice to come here from time to time
>> for someone wanting to improve
themselves.
>> Yeah.
>> But can't seem to escape their old self.
>> Yeah.
>> What advice would you give that person
on making the first step and keeping
promises to themselves?
>> Look, you don't need all the answers
before you start taking action, right? I
think a lot of people think you need a
rocked bulletproof plan. You need to
have it all mapped out. You need to have
the 15 steps to greatness and all that
shit. You don't need none of that. You
need two things. One, what is the bigger
vision for yourself, right? What is the
version of yourself that you want to
step into? The better man, the better
woman, the best version of you. What
does that look like? How does that
person think? How do they walk? How do
they dress? You know, what are their
priorities? What do they not prioritize?
Wouldn't they not waste their time and
bandwidth and mental focus you know
being entangled with? So have extreme
clarity for that vision. Okay, that's
the most important. Besides that, ask
yourself what's the next step? What is
the very next thing that you have to do
this week, today, right now? So after
watching this video, what are you going
to do over the next 10 hours, the next
24 hours, the next week, the next month?
People don't put enough focus on that.
What is the next thing you have to do?
It's probably not that complicated.
Reach out to the person that you need to
reach out to. Execute on the task that
you need to execute on. Pick up the
phone, call, you know, make that next
phone call that needs to be made. Take
that next action. So, you need two
things. One, the big vision. Absolute
extreme clarity. And the other thing,
what's the next step? What's the first
step? You don't need the in between.
People get lost in the in between. And
the in between is where dreams go to
die. M
>> so just fucking take action. Take action
towards the big picture and never stop
taking action. That's the secret. If
there ever was a secret, that's the
fucking secret.
>> And that's also why you said that there
was no defining moment.
>> There is no defining moment.
>> Okay.
>> Today is the defining moment. This
moment is the defining moment. I will
never be here again, now again, this
age. I will never be uh this level of
fitness, have this much youth, this much
oxygen in my lungs. It this is it. So
what am I willing to do in this moment?
What do you do? Do that.
>> Okay, we can go to the Thank you so
much.
>> Do you ever think you could go back to
that old version of yourself? Do you
believe in that? Do you think you can
sort of
do things in your life that make you go
back or is it like only uh
>> can you revert?
>> Yeah.
>> I think life is a one-way stream on a
river.
um even when you feel like you've
reverted back. For example, if you had
old habits and you revert back to those
old bad habits. Um or if you had goals
that you felt as if you were getting
momentum against but then you lost
momentum. Maybe you have a catastrophic
event or if you're on the cusp of a
breakthrough but some ill fate befalls
you. Whether it's health issues or life
gets in the way and you feel as if
you've taken a step back, you haven't.
Because at the end of the day, time is a
one-way street. And the next version of
you is a version that includes those
lessons, right? The lessons that life
has thrown at you. Whether they are hard
lessons or whether they are uh fun
lessons, they're all lessons, right? So
there is no going back. So the real
question is what lessons have you
accured? I mean if you're no wiser than
you were 10 years ago then what is the
value that you've derived from the last
decade if you have not gathered any
lessons right if time doesn't offer you
lessons that you can then grasp then
what was the point what was the meaning
what meaning have you derived from time
because time as I said it's a one-way
stream and so I like to be the wiser
version of myself every year, every 2
years, every 5 years. So there is no
going back because there is this version
of me with the lessons that I have acred
from the old version of me.
>> And I think that's the way it should be.
So on this particular episode, I'm not
even going to say 0 to 100.
I'm just going to say zero to the better
version of you, right? What is the
better version of you and how do you
strive towards being that person? Don't
miss the opportunity. Be wiser in the
next decade.
Acrew the lessons as they come.
Boom.
Nice.
>> Did I got to do it?
0 to 100.
I had to do it.
There you go. Nice. Sweet.
