[music]
Hello and welcome to the Enterprising
Investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahlberg and I'm joined today by Ashley
Herd, who has a fascinating background.
Ashley trained as a lawyer, worked as
external counsel, then went in-house
with a variety of companies including
the Yum Brands. Yep, that's KFC, Pizza
Hut, and Taco Bell, as well as McKenzie.
In the midst of that, Ashley moved into
leadership over both legal and HR, which
she's leveraged to train over 250,000
managers, and to write her upcoming
book, The Manager Method: Practical
Strategies to Lead with Purpose and
Confidence. We're going to talk about
how listeners can be a better manager,
maybe better manage their managers, and
to spot good managers when either job
hunting or investing. So, welcome to the
show, Ashley. Thanks so much. Glad to be
here. Mike,
>> so my first question, of course, Ashley,
did they give you free chicken at KFC?
>> I mean, like, I will be totally honest.
While I do not know the secret recipe, I
should know it now because we did. Not
only did we get free chicken, we could
get free test products. And so, your
mind might be blown at some of the
different combinations of chicken and
bacon and love uh that we would get. And
and also there's nothing like it being
socially acceptable after, you know,
when I was a lawyer or working with
people issues, like a tough conversation
to go get a Nachos Bel Grande in the
middle of the day and just walk back to
your desk with it. And so I can't say it
was my healthiest self, but it was a
really great culture. And what I did
learn is there are a lot of restaurant
managers that were incredible people
leaders, even more so than senior
partners at McKenzie with, you know,
literally five Ivy League degrees.
>> Wow. Wow. Yeah. I can definitely see
myself as a as a fatter version of
myself if I had that job. Thank god I've
never worked in that in that space. But
uh my first job ever actually was was
working decorating donuts for a donut
shop in my in my local town. So uh that
was as close as I got. Yeah.
>> But are now are you good at decorating
now? And do you decorate now?
>> Uh I'm not so good with my hands. I'm
not a bad baker though. I'm a good chef.
Okay. Chef. Yeah.
>> And my first job was at Subway. I made I
was a sandwich artist and artist and I
do still eat at Subway which I do think
is a bell weather if you've worked in a
food establishment and you eat there but
um anyway I still still do eat it and I
can do a pretty mean uh you cut out of
the breath.
>> Great. Well, now now that we've settled
that uh I'm curious about your your
migration from law to consulting about
really the more the softer side of the
corporate experience. Can you tell me
was was there a moment that crystallized
for you the importance of of great
leadership or or even what that looked
like maybe?
>> For me great leadership what I learned
is that great leadership isn't something
that you have to go ask for budget for
or really takes a lot of time. The
number one skill I found in leadership
is communication. So for me for example
I had worked actually in external law
firm environment. I worked a lot of
hours. I was a litigator. My cases were
were all over the country and I went
from that to working in-house doing
legal for a large radio company. It was
publicly traded company. They didn't
have a strategic HR department. So
that's the first time I really took that
on as well. And so one example of
leadership was when I was interviewing
with uh my future boss who at that point
in time was my client who was the
general counsel of the company. He was a
man with two kids uh who were teenagers,
a a stay-at-home wife and a nanny. And
so I on the other hand had a young
toddler. my husband and I both worked. I
was really worried because what had
happened to me was I was working so
much. I definitely did not feel like a
very present present mother or present
for myself. But of course, those are the
things I'm never going to bring up in an
interview because all I want to do is
get this get this job. But during the
interview, the general counsel said, you
know, one thing I want to share is
you'll take a pay cut coming here. You
know, going from private practice into
working in-house, you it's part of the
deal, maybe 25%, but said part of your
compensation is a really predictable
schedule. You'll work 8 to 5. you won't
be on call at nights on the weekends. We
have a lot of fun here. We do good work,
but we we really take that seriously.
But that is part of what I'd say is your
your package. And for me, hearing that
in in not me asking a question that led
to, but that him proactively bringing
that up to me and it actually being true
in practice was incredible. And there
was a lot that led to that. You there
was he and a colleague had created a lot
of systems that made that possible. We
were a super super lean team. But for
me, it was this aspect of I'd always
assumed success meant that you just were
going to give up hours and that was
just, you know, kind of the reality of
things.
>> But I learned and we did really good
work. We did really big work, but we did
it with a team of three lawyers in at
that point in time a billion-dollar
company. And it transformed for me what
I thought was just sacrificing a lot of
aspects of your life. And so for me, and
it's sometimes you're going to have
times that you work more, things are
going to be tough, but this aspect of
communication. And so that's brought for
me like, you know, as a lawyer, the
number one thing I saw happen were like,
well, some really choices that people
made, especially in leadership, that
they shouldn't have done, but a lot of
things aren't going to be in lawsuits.
What you see more often is people that
choose to leave or how they show up to
work one day, how they're going to work
for you, if they're client facing, how
they're going to work with clients. And
a lot of the impact of that comes from
the manager and what kind of culture
you're setting for your team.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it sounds like he he
proactively
tried to counteract some of the bad
habits that people get into in in in law
and certainly in finance. You get these
these temptations to have facetime,
which existed before Apple, of course,
you know, just being there until the
boss goes home or or or bosses having,
you know, extreme expectations on on
their team. So that's I can see how that
was beneficial to you at least in terms
of managing your life and knowing that
you could have some control over it.
>> It was it really it literally
transformed my life and and how I think
about work because of it.
>> So something that our industry is I'm
sure not unique in is promoting people
into a manager role because they're good
at their day job. So one example I saw
when I was in London. So a currency
trader is suddenly managing currency
traders who are people and not P&Ls
and and they suck at it, right? So that
manager is now stuck in middle
management. They stop making money for
the firm. They get discouraged. I was
thinking about this concept and I looked
it up last night cuz I thought I thought
it was the Dilbert principle, but it's
not the Dilbert principle. I think it's
the the Peter principle, I think, if if
I'm not wrong. Right. in in a hierarchy,
every employee tends to to rise to his
level of incompetence, which is kind of
sad and cynical, but but true, right?
So, I I'm sure you see this in your
day-to-day in consulting. So, what what
advice do you have both for that trader
and for the firm that's offering the
promotion?
>> I do see this. And for some credibility,
I know on the podcast the description,
if someone has a CFA, at each podcast
episode, if they have a CFA, you have
the letter CFA after this. People will
probably not be shocked that I was not a
CFA and had not been working at KFC.
Those are the letters I had instead or
JD I guess. But I can say daughter of
CFA. My my father was a CFA and he
actually got a CFA when he was in his
40s. I was in high school. So I saw him
studying for it. He was a grader. So I
will add that to those listening. I have
observed it. Uh which is probably part
of the reason I'm doing this and not
being a CFA because I saw how much work
it is. But it is really common and you
you see it you see it in sales
environments. You see it in every sort
of function. Someone's great at their
job. And the answer that a lot of times
people in senior leadership say is,
"Okay, well gosh, this person's so good
at their job. We'll make them a manager
and they will teach everybody else how
to do it." And it's such a win-win
because we're going to replicate that
success to everybody. And all of a
sudden, that win-win isn't. It becomes a
a lose-lose. And part of that is because
you're good at your job and you you go
and you're going to manage people. Well,
some of it even just taking the work
aspects of it. people say, "Oh, can you
teach this new person?" You may think to
yourself, I mean, either it's been a
long time since I learned all of these
things or I can't remember how I learned
this or now, you know, if if you're the
top performer on the team, then there's
probably a lot of people on the team who
aren't. So, you're managing maybe you're
managing your peers or now you're trying
to coach someone who's not performing
who you've looked at in the past as like
a co-orker like, you know, I don't want
to be I don't want to work with this
person on a project. Now, you're not
just working with them on a project.
you're responsible for their their
career and and and their work and how
they're coming across. And so it's
really hard and that's just from the
work perspective. Take into account, you
know, all of a sudden now someone needs
to take time off right before right when
you landed a new client and have pitched
them as the go-to person. And so it's
really dealing with both from a
delegation, a performance, a coaching
perspective to all the realities of
being a people manager. And the gap that
I see is that sometimes you are like
volunttoled to go into that manager role
or that's really the only path you see.
So I think it's really important to
think as an organization of okay if we
have this person and we make them a
manager and they don't like it. Is that
going to be the win-win or is it going
to be a lose-lose that in the end they
leave to go elsewhere and the rest of
the team gets super demotivated. And so
we see it in results in engagement in
turnover. And so is there a path where
this person if they if they don't want
to manage people they just want to do
can they do that and have an expert path
or whatever you want to call that I do
think it's really important but if
you're in that path where you you become
a manager you're listening to this and
thinking okay well I'm already there so
while I'm I might want to be an expert
I'm here is thinking about the training
that you get that that's the fault so
many organizations from from you know
small small firms to to large
organizations really don't offer
practical training um and so that's why
I I created uh manager method as a
business and wrote the manager method as
a book to really give managers things to
do and say because it can feel really
hard especially when you're a CFA you've
taken you've taken three years of exams
or multiple years of exams uh to to to
get there and you're really smart at
what you do and so it can feel awful to
be in a position where all of a sudden
you don't know what to do and so people
management just like uh just like
finance and every other function is a
skill to learn and so it's really really
important that people have tips on on
what you can do and say in different
situations to drive results without
driving people out the door.
>> Let's let's talk about your book. I'd
like to start maybe at a high level,
Ashley. What do you hope readers will
take away from the manager method?
>> You know, there's a lot of words in the
book. I don't have the exact number, but
there are three words that really are
the the core of the book. And and this
is what I call three-part framework,
which is pause, consider, act. because I
I read a lot of books and I can probably
think of like two to seven words, you
know, from all of them. So, I'll give
you three. So, we we'll skew down a
little bit. But this idea of pause,
consider act is what the manager method
is all about. And this is the idea that
in any situation as a people manager,
whether it's delegating work,
performance, dealing with people's
sudden need from time off is to do three
things. The first is to pause. And of
these, again, no no no no slog on on
consider, but but pause and act are the
two that I really see people not do as
much. So, pause first is and that
doesn't mean stop. It it doesn't mean
okay ne never do anything but really to
take whether it's take a beat or take a
few days to think about it but is to
pause before you do something because
especially if you're if you're an expert
you're looked to as an expert maybe
you're you know working with clients or
your team you think that they expect you
to have all the answers but having a
pause and to to think about what to do
next and so the consider aspect is to
think okay in any situation maybe maybe
it's how would I want to be treated it
doesn't mean that you can't look to team
and see them for the people they are.
But it really is putting yourself in
those shoes. So let's say you have
someone that really made a mistake on a
document for a client like just with
typos or math errors, which is even
really a holy grail of especially this
this profession. But but they did you
know a lot of times you have these
managers that just absolutely come in
hot and you know maybe call them out.
the person feels ashamed. But what you
may not know is what led to that point.
Maybe they got data from somebody else.
Maybe they were in such a rush because
they have 20 things going on and that
was truly the best that they could do.
And so there's other things that are
issued that need to be fixed. And so
considering in that perspective, what
would you want? Oftenimes it's at least
to ask a question and to have a
conversation in a a calm manner. It's
sometimes someone really screwed up and
they need to know that they screwed up
and figure out how to fix it. But a lot
of times as a leader, it's not just that
conversation. That conversation can lead
to ripple effects that long last way
long after. And if you don't have it the
right way, that that can be a bad thing.
But if you have it in a way that you're
asking questions, then you're showing,
you know, okay, you're getting their
perspective, and if they're not doing
right, you're talking about how to fix
it, not just to make them feel
embarrassed. Well, then that person, if
they do make a mistake or they have a
question, they're going to bring those
to you because the third is act. That's
the other step is, you know, sometimes
people say, "Well, let me think about
that." you ask your boss a question. All
right, I'll think about that.
>> I don't know if they're still thinking
about it. I don't know what's happening
because they never come back to me on
anything. So, you have this kind of like
it all goes out into the to the world
and you never hear anything back. So,
whether it's following up with someone,
giving them information is to really
then do something about it. And so this
really three-step framework in the book
I give all sorts of examples um
including some relevant industries to to
the listeners here but of of what that
looks like in practice and how you can
use that to think about any situation
that you'll come across.
>> Yeah, it makes makes a lot of sense for
sure. It's uh just the the old idea of
you know think on it overnight before
you send that email.
Take the time think about it. See if
you're as angry in the morning as you as
you felt in the afternoon. For sure.
That's excellent, excellent advice. I
wanted to talk as well about what I what
I've written in my notes here is the
pant analogy. But uh for listeners u so
basically this is this is I think would
be relevant for me personally because I
I've worn the manager hat at various
points in my career managing teams and
one of the things that I've often
struggled with especially when I was my
first team that I managed was was
finding the line between too soft and
too harsh in dealing with with your
team. So can you can you explain what I
you you don't call it the pants analogy
I don't think but you do have can you
just explain the pan analogy and and and
and how that helps strike a balance.
>> I do but if you want to think of it as
the pants analogy you know whatever
people take away from this I call it the
tight jeans. So, what I say is, you
know, think about it. We're still, you
know, a bit coming off you, you know,
you'll be a few weeks coming off the
holidays and all those things into the
new year as you're listening to this and
thinking to yourself, how do you feel
when you put on a pair of tight jeans
straight from the dryer, nonstretch,
non-stretch jeans, just tight like if
you think, I feel fantastic, then that's
great. But that's probably you're maybe
in like the 1%. Most of us like it's
just this visceral reaction. But that's
what management can feel like sometimes
or working for a manager that's just all
over you. If if you've ever if you've
ever had that then knowing part of the
reason you've likely had that experience
is because it can be a really easy trap
to fall into. If you're a manager you're
delegating whether you're have a new
team or you've been experienced for a
long time. You likely, you know, you
likely got promoted because of a lot of
the things that you do in your approach.
So you want other people to replicate
those. But when you've had a manager
that you know gives you something, is
checking in, sending you sending you
updates, asking you things on the fly,
you don't have time to think and
consider, it can it can feel super
constricting. And so what I say is on
the flip side, you can have, you know,
the oversized sweatpants manager. Now,
what that is is, you know, maybe there's
maybe it's a weekend day and it kind of
feels nice to put on something like very
comforting and just hang out on the
couch. But what that can look like is
the manager that is so hands-off. Oh, I
trust my team. You can find me if you
need me. Well, then when you need them,
you really literally can't find them
through they're not in the office or
you're remote. You can't you can't get
time with them. And so they give you a
project and say, "I trust you, but you
have no idea what you're supposed to do
and say. You get a new client you're
working with and they haven't told you
information that you really need to know
about that client." And so there's some
of those gaps of when people don't have
the expectations or at least an idea of
what support they'll have. And so that's
the other extreme. So the pants that can
really be the most helpful are cozy
joggers right in the middle. like you
have room, you have room to grow, you
have, you know, support. And so thinking
about this as a people manager is for
your team like if you pause and consider
what type of leader really works often
times it's someone that tells people
what's expected gives them really clear
information about what they need to
know. What are actual deadlines? What
are things the client hates or the
colleague hates or the boss hates? What
what do they love? What are things that
this person can decide and what support
that you'll give them so that you can
actually check in. some of those levels
of support. Again, all of those are
completely free. They don't take budget.
But thinking about that and okay, how
can I if I feel like I'd be in tight
pants, how could I move towards maybe
being more of that cozy jog or
leadership can be a visual that that's
really resonated with with with leaders
that I've spoken with.
>> So, it's so it's communication. It's
it's sort of setting out what uh what
what success looks like up front. Um
timelines, milestones, all those kinds
of things. So, communicating all the way
through it. I feel like the tight jeans
is really sort of control in in in
disguise though like how how do you free
how do you free yourself up to to
getting into a point where it's trust
but verify.
>> So a lot of this is thinking about how
do you how do you actually make that
jump and what are the things? So
sometimes what these behaviors can look
like as a manager is do you have team
members and you've told them copy me on
every email or before that send me every
email before you send it to to somebody
else. And you're likely that it likely
is probably well-intentioned. Oftentimes
where I see tight jeans coming from is
this aspect of trying to protect your
team. So save them from things that you
experienced yourself or not expose them
to, you know, working with, you know, a
clan or anyone else who's like, you
know, really hard hard to work with, but
instead taking some of a bit of that
real human approach and thinking what
are the things that you're doing that
you're not able to step away from? like
if you're trying to take a vacation, are
you able to take time off or is it
really off-ish because you feel the need
to stay involved and and you you can't
really step away? And so one is thinking
about what would it be like if I had
more time back like what would that be
like for me and then what would that be
like for my team members to develop? And
so as you think about these and okay, if
I'm if I'm telling people I need to
attend your meetings or you need to send
emails to me, like why is that? Is is
that because there's things that you
went through that were really harsh you
want to save them from? Well, instead of
trying to make a process around it, why
don't you have a conversation and talk
to your teens about the things I wish I
know, things I wish I knew, experiences
I had, and have them contribute. And so,
some of this is more is more around
conversation.
Also, it's thinking about delegation is
really a phased approach. You know, it's
it's not the oversized sweatpants of,
okay, well, now I'm going to delegate.
I'll let them try it. It can be that
phased approach of you know depending on
especially you know I know in the
finance industry there's a lot about
what tools you can use what technology
AI screen recording all of that so it's
it's always important to know what
technology you can have but there's some
really cool technology of where if
you're having a conversation with
someone if you're going through a
process if you're doing it yourself
thinking about if someone's in the
office with you can you have them sit
with you and literally sit with you and
just walk through like how you think
about something explain things ask for
their input can you make a screen
recording that shows you doing that so
they could watch it back a few times.
Can you have them try it and and do it
in a low stress environment so it's not
immediately going to go to a client or
something that has to get done today? I
recently heard heard her heard described
as kind of like a J curve like
oftentimes with anything you're doing.
There's going to be a level of
frustration if you're learning a new
skill, playing an instrument, you know,
learning a new regulation. Like there's
a lot of work that goes into it, but
over time it gets a lot easier. And
delegation is a lot like that. It takes
a bit of time to invest it, some effort,
but it's amazing when all of a sudden
you do you're able to step away. You're
able to have people take things on in
your absence and and you're not worried
you're about not being needed. You you
have this team that's that's looked to
as go-tos and so you get more time back.
They're able to develop and so investing
that time can can really be worth it for
your own peace of mind and also able to
focus on the things that really matter
and for your team's actual development.
So in your book you make the point of
course that you you have happier
employees but have having happier
employees drives engagement. You had
some stats in there on Gallup was
driving links or deriving links to the
profitability of the firm. So I I'm
curious if how investors should think
about management quality as as a
performance lever as opposed to just
doing the right thing to have happy
employees.
It's really important because you know I
when I talk about people doing things
right people say that's all nice and
good but again when I have a deadline
when we have things we're dealing with
you know really huge dollar amounts it's
really easy to think of people more as
spreadsheets
but if you flip and you remember that
all of the people doing the work like
yes some of it is is more is more
technical work but a lot of it is
communication whether it's um if you
have high netw worth clients that are
deciding who to go with I mean people
that have worked in those environments
will know sometimes times, you know,
yes, there's a lot of pressure,
especially you may have family members
that are involved and they're all
looking at the the financial results and
those really matter, but you also have a
lot of gut checks of, you know, do I
like this person? How do they how did
they you go out to a meal? Did they put
their napkin in their lap when you sat
there? I mean, the things that that
really go into those decisions. And so
knowing there are there are business
results from how people interact, but
that's also true for the people on your
team. So if you look at the the people
that have left your team to go
elsewhere, yes, sometime people make all
sorts of choices. Sometimes it's they're
offered more money or a better package
or opportunities elsewhere, but
sometimes it really is the situation of
there's you I I felt like my boss was a
micromanager. I couldn't get them off my
they were never off my back or um I I
never had any idea of what was expected
of me. This I had a performance review.
you know, performance reviews, managers
doing performance reviews. You often
think of it as h this obligation. You're
cramming at the last minute. How can I
use JGBT to help me put all put all
these together? But you're not thinking
about on the flip side that other
person. And do they know do they know
where they stand? I mean, they're
looking at this as as an opportunity for
their career. And so when it comes down
to things, you know, people's happiness,
it does go into profitability. But some
of the reason is that from the flip
side, someone when they've worked really
hard on something and you take the
opportunity to tell them thank you.
Maybe you they normally wouldn't be
coming along for the presentation, you
bring them along. You bring up their
name in a senior leadership meeting and
tell them that. I mean, that can be the
decision that doesn't just impact them
deciding to stay, but how they work the
next day, what they want to take on, if
they want to grow. And so when it comes
down to things like performance, uh,
engagement, retention, all of those are
very real dollar amounts that oftentimes
go by the wayside when when you're not
thinking about I mean the effort that
people put out and how much that matters
and and how how a manager and colleagues
can impact that.
>> Yeah. Because turnover is expensive,
right?
>> It is. I mean, you look at the
statistics, it's anywhere from, you
know, 50 to 200% of of a salary, but
especially as you look at more technical
roles, it tends to skew to that the
higher side of it. I mean obviously it's
aren't hard and you have people that are
in demand. I mean it's you have someone
that's you know super sharp financially
has good relationships you know you as a
manager you may think okay do we have
you know what do we have to keep them on
board do we have a do we have a
non-compete what you know what do we
have to keep them on board I know it's a
bit different in Canada in the US in the
last couple years there was a movement
it was well there was a federal rule to
ban non-competes that went away that got
challenged in court that didn't end up
happening it kind of in the US it's like
state and all these things of whether
they matter but one thing that I'd send
is is is thinking about this California
mindset. So there are no non-competes in
California and a lot of places around
the world now you don't have them. But
is the thing from from especially when
you have people that have you know both
technical expertise and in in client
relationships if you're just relying on
a piece of paper and obligation to keep
them in seed then that could go away.
That could that could go away but also
it's going to play into how they show up
how they have have relationships. And so
thinking about what you can do to make
make your workplace one that people want
to be because not only is turnover
expensive, but just flatout hiring as
you add new roles to your team. And so
when you're able to do something to be
that boss that people talk about people
side texts people, the number one
question people have when interviewing,
not to you, but to the people they're
interviewing with is like, "Oh, what's
this person really like to work for?"
They're either asking that or they're
trying to figure that out on on their
own. And so those things, they really
matter. But that's why I wrote the book
to give managers ideas of things that
you can do and say without asking for a
budget or asking for time in your day
beyond reading the book or listening to
the book to to get tips on how to do
that.
>> So So if you can text your friend, you
can find out about an individual
manager. That's that's great to get a
sense of the the quality of the
management in the company. I I'm going
to go up a few thousand feet and and
think about this the role that that many
of our listeners have, which is, you
know, picking stocks, right? So you're
you're an analyst. Part of your job is
kind of part science, part art, and the
science part is all the models that you
build and and the the bells and whistles
you add to those. But the art part is
really, you know, dreaming a little bit
about what the potential for the
business is. But a really key part of
that is assessing management. So we're
looking at management's ability to make
good decisions to drive growth in the
business. But I'm curious if there are
any kind of clues that that you might
look for if you were meeting management
because sometime you know some of our
listeners will interview management as
part of their job otherwise they're
listening to the quarterly calls like
what are the things that you'd be
looking for as signs of of a man a
company that is well-managed internally.
>> So some of it I think it's it's a a
really really great question. It reminds
me of my uh when I was back in middle
school, I did a we had a a science fair
and I decided to enter I can't remember
what the category was but somehow in the
science fair I was able to do one where
I looked at Berkshire Hathaway stuck and
um and and do some predictions
predictions based on it. And so at a
young age going into asking questions I
remember to my head of like what you
know what goes into these things even
now having conversations literally about
this about management because it's hard
it's hard to quantify but sometimes when
you do get that facetime and I've loved
listening to to investor calls to
analysts but talking about this some of
those questions are you know one of the
gaps I have is if senior if senior
leaders are on a call is do people bring
up ideas to senior leaders and it's and
the way you can phrase that is is
sometimes saying like you know to a CEO
for example, is if someone has an idea,
how would that eventually get to you?
and hopefully they'll have answers and
sometimes you you you know whether you
have a hotline or things like that but
as I've seen it especially when you're
looking at that senior senior level call
is you can tell so much about the
culture of an organization and
ultimately what what things like
turnover retention are going to look
like but also when you have a call where
people are as quiet as possible because
they want to stay out of the way of of
that CEO because they know you you don't
want to get called on because that
senior leader is going to totally like
generally it's always going to be
negative or on the flip side if you have
an idea the answer is like well you we
have tried that we've tried that before
you get absolutely shut down and so a
lot of it is about ideas and questions
and so one I think is to the senior
leadership if if someone has a new idea
for the business how would that
potentially get to you and hear what
they have to say are they open to it do
people have channels because if they
don't know and again they may not know
on the fly but they may think well it's
probably is something I I should think
about it whether they're open to it I
think people's response to a lot of that
is really is really important But that
human lens of what they're saying, what
they doing, are they thinking about the
impacts that it can have to retention
and engagement. So another I think the
other question is as you make decisions
that have to do with your people, how do
you think about how that would affect
from everyday engagement how that
translates to performance and turnover
and and ask for their thoughts on it
because those are real quantifiable
dollars and and I know I I I know of
leaders who would not think about that
and often times you do tend to see that
in results but it is from Gallup to
McKenzie too all all sorts of studies
have shown you know the happiness isn't
an ice to have it really does translate
to those longtime business results
because of those reasons because it
impacts how people work whether they
choose to stay or leave and how you can
recruit new people to the organization
>> and and innovate.
>> Yeah, totally to to to innovate which
which ultimately goes to the bottom
line. I mean a lot of times I hear so I
I I I put content about about leadership
about HR on social media and I get all
sorts of comments and sometimes it is
from people from this lens which is you
know the responsibility of an
organization is to its shareholders
which of a public company in particular
or you know private with its you know
it's people with ownership interests but
equity but
when I say it is but but factors play
into that but there are factors that
play into that so a shareholders's
interest is not going to be served by a
leader that gets short-term results but
drives people out the door in doing so.
And sometimes you don't know what you're
losing you what you're losing out on.
But but I've absolutely seen that play a
factor. And now as I've grown in my
career, I've whether I've worked with
people or I've had friends I mean one
thing is as you put content out online,
people are happy to tell you their
stories here or not. And I know of some
very senior leaders, incredibly talented
people. And the reasons that they choose
to stay with the organization or leave
and take a lot sometimes some teams with
them or ideas with them innovation often
comes down to really really basic things
like you know my job became being a hall
monitor for whether my team was back in
the office and I was you know I have
huge projects I'm running as like
general manager of a business unit but I
was also told to make sure that I was
checking in if people were badging out
when they were leaving it that they
weren't cheating the system and so just
some of those things really do those
human behaviors come into play?
>> Well, you've had a a a sprawling and and
interesting career so far. I'm It's
leading into my final two-part question
here that I'm going to hit you with. And
what was what was your first
professional job? And if you could go
back and take yourself for coffee on
your first day, what key piece of advice
would you offer yourself?
>> So, my first professional job, I worked
at a company called Corporate Executive
Board. It's now owned by Gardner. And so
I used to cold called cold call CFOs and
Fortune 1000 CFOs. And I went to Center
College in Danville, Kentucky, which is
a liberal arts school, you know, despite
having done this, you know, project in
seventh grade. And and my dad at that
point in time going through his his CFA
exam. I really didn't have that much of
a finance acumen. And so I I bought
Fortune magazine. Uh this was I learned
very quickly, you tended to be able to
get time better if you just said the
word Sarbain Oxley because this was
2003.
But I thickened my skin really quickly,
but I also learned the human element. I
mean, I knew people I worked with that
were very successful and some of their
steps were they would hang up on the
assistant over and over and over again
until they got the CFO. Um, you
sometimes I would do different things. I
might come early, stay late, you know,
get the CFO in these these odd hours. I
I've talked to some very notable CFOs.
They wouldn't remember me because they
hung up on me pretty quickly after that.
but is instead I developed some of the
relationships with assistants and helped
to build that and that took more time
but again some of that relationship
relationship building. So that was my
first my first professional job in cold
calling sales but for taking myself to
coffee I really think part of it is that
to teach myself that you can be a leader
no matter your title. It took me
actually I I I became a manager like of
one. It's kind of a onetoone
relationship dotted line but one to one
pretty quickly. My my second year of
professional work but but as far as a a
manager took a number of years to get
there but well before that I was a
leader and had an impact on my team. You
know no matter what your title is if
you're if you're a a CEO of a huge
enterprise or you're a colleague and you
don't manage anybody you have such an
impact on the way that people work and
the way that they live. you can be the
reason that people under work and look
forward to it and so or you're sharing
ideas, you're helping people to develop.
And so that's one thing is that I I
didn't take into account. I kind of
assumed it and I like making friends at
work and things or learning tips, but to
really think about the impact that you
have on other people and in their work
and really their life experience outside
of work.
I've been speaking today with Ashley
Herd, founder and CEO of Manager Method
and author of a book of the same name
due to Drop in Bookstores in February.
Thanks for joining me today, Ashley. I I
really feel like I learned a lot today.
Thanks for our chat.
>> Thanks, Mike.
>> I'm Mike Wahberg, and this has been the
Enterprising Investor.
>> [music]
