[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to MBA Asks
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Lender Price founder and CEO Dara
Almi for part two of our ongoing series
with Lender Price. In part one, we
discussed modern pricing engines and how
they are shaping the current market
landscape. Today, it's all about AI,
artificial intelligence, and how it's
transforming mortgage pricing. Dir, it's
so great to talk to you again today.
Welcome.
Thank you. Thank you for having me. It's
great to be part of the series.
Of course. Now, let's dive in. What are
the key advancements that distinguish AI
powered product and pricing engines or
PPEs from traditional pricing technology
in the mortgage industry? and how do
these innovations reshape the experience
for both lenders and borrowers?
Yeah, it's a good question. Um, you
know, I think that AI is more than a
buzzword this year compared to last
year. I think that you're seeing a lot
of companies embrace AI and figure out
how to how how they can incorporate AI
at every uh part of their company. Um
here with us at lenderpric when it comes
to a pricing engine we're really looking
at real time and real time AIdriven uh
price optimization. So we're figuring
out how to embrace AI uh when it comes
from comes from a p pricing optimization
perspective. We're looking at using AI
to provide personalized borrower
experiences. So, we've got our AY
product and uh that provides loan
officers the ability to provide custom
um uh you know you know custom loan
scenarios that they that they weren't um
that they didn't know before. So it
provides uh options like and this is
really important in today's world where
nonQM is somewhat dominating the space
because refinances have been really low
uh you know uh with you know with rates
being high and and and and now you're
seeing loan officers really going
outside of the box and trying to
understand nonQM products better looking
at those self-employed borrowers and AI
can really help them in providing them
these loan options. that they weren't
that they didn't know before. Um, and it
and AI is also helping them is helping
educate them. So, with with our AI with
our AI AI tool, uh, we're able to give
them answers, underwriting questions,
uh, you know, normal questions that that
they would ask an underwriter in regards
to nonqu products. You know, Ayah is
able to, you know, answer those
questions. And for the cap markets
folks, we're able to use AI to
streamline and provide them with
intuitive workflows that you know
provides better efficiencies and drives
you know these loans faster to closing.
Yeah, I think you know the tech and
innovation going on right now through
the entire origination process of course
is incredible. So how can lenders
deliver more personalized mortgage
solutions and what impact does this
level of customization have on borrower
satisfaction and lender competitiveness?
Yeah. So I mean really just looking at
AI drive AIdriven borrower profiling,
right? Um
and it's some of the things that I've
already discussed and regards to dynamic
scenario analysis. So really just
looking at these different scenarios and
figuring out, you know, what's the best
product that not only can a loan officer
match a borrower, but how can cap
markets use this to drive ROI.
So we're seeing a lot of use case that
and the when it comes to positive user
feedback. Um, you know, what we're
seeing is that we're seeing our clients
provide, you know, information back to
us in in the surveys and they're saying
that they're seeing greater efficiency,
higher borrower satisfaction because of
various products that AI is, you know,
able to provide uh uh the loan officer
um and to them and uh they're seeing a
higher conversion rates as a you as a
result of using AI. Those are some good
insights there. As we both know, the
mortgage industry is already highly
regulated. So, how should we address
regulatory and compliance concerns
associated with AI adoption while
ensuring that forward-thinking
institutions that you've been talking
about can leverage AI to their fullest
potential?
Yeah. So, it so you know this is a
really interesting question because
there's a huge debate about this, right?
you know, when it comes to regulation
and you're seeing the C, you know, CFPB
providing their feedback in terms of
being careful in terms of how you
actually adopt AI. Um, back in, you
know, there was actually an NBA series,
and I'm not sure if you remember,
there's an NBA series where you guys had
various pricing engines showcase their
product, and we were one of them.
And uh uh our sales uh our head of sales
Dustin Mlen was demoing our backend and
how we use natural language processing
and and you know and demoing uh you know
uh rule writing and how it you know we
could you know create a lot of
efficiencies in rule writing by using
NLP and I remember like one of the PPE
vendors like they came you know it was
you know it was our demo and then there
you know they demoed right after us and
they're like yeah we don't use NLP
because because they knew that we used
NLP. Now they're using the word NLP and
machine learning and AI and um you know
uh and it was interesting because back
then when we had mentioned NLP nobody
really had a problem with it but now
they do because now they're looking at
compliance. Um what we're doing is we're
looking at flexible deployment options.
So, we've created our AI tools as a
plugin that can be plugged into those
lenders that want to adopt it. So, if
you don't want to adopt it, you don't
have to. It's a complete plug-in. It's
not part of our core infrastructure.
Um, our tech stack from the very
beginning was developed to embrace AI
and machine learning. And as a software
engineer and my co- you know my
co-founders you know we've been you know
you know we've uh kind of uh looked at
this as being something that could
potentially be used in the future but
it's just amazing because it's happening
at such a you know fast pace that
everyone wants to embrace it. Um but
going back to uh compliance um we also
have a strong compliance framework. So
like I said, we developed, you know, our
tech stack was made for AI from the very
beginning and having a strong compliance
framework helps us when it comes to
these larger institutions that want to,
you know, implement it. Um, and there's
this other uh thing where you've got
some lenders that really don't care
about comply. It's not that they don't
care about compliance, but they want to
they want to see immediate value as
being an early adopter. So, they're
willing to say, "Okay, well, we're going
to take a portion of our company,
certain users that's going to start
dabbling with AI solutions, and we're
going to be early adopters." I think
those companies that do that are going
to be much better off in the future
because they're going to be ahead of the
rest. But I would not be surprised if
2025 2026 we see a lot of leniency when
it comes to those lenders that were
concerned embrace AI much more because
it's happening. I mean you're seeing
Meta doubling down on AI hiring a lot of
open AI's uh engineers. you're seeing a
lot of doubling down and a lot of a lot
of investments in AI not just within our
industry but outside the industry. So um
I think a lot of the regulatory concerns
although valid are are not going to be
you know are you know uh there's going
to be a lot of answers to those
compliance concerns in the future. I
think you make some excellent points
there, Dir. And you know, I think the
regulatory path forward, it may be
bumpy, but it's clear that AI is here to
stay and like you've really outlined
this for us today. I've really enjoyed
talking to you about AI and I look
forward to our conversation in the near
future for part three of our MBA Ask the
Expert series with Lender Price. Thank
you for joining us again today.
Great. Thanks for having me.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
