[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. On today's
episode, we're asking a question that's
on many economists minds. How do we
prepare and plan for a world where
eventually one in four Americans will be
aged 65 or older? Our guests today are
Sachin Shaw, CEO of Brookfield Wealth
Solutions, and Terresa Gillarduchi,
professor of economics at the New School
for Social Research in New York. They'll
shed light on the demographic shifts
putting retirement at the front and
center of our economy, as well as the
tools and trends needed to help people
of any age secure their futures.
Satchin Teresa, thanks so much for
joining us today. Could you please
introduce yourselves? I'm Teresa
Gillarduchi. I'm a professor of
economics um right now at the New School
for Social Research in New York and I've
written a number of books on retirement.
I started doing work on retirement as a
graduate student at Berkeley and have
just continued up to my retirement
closer in the future. So, I've been
doing retirement in America for a very
long time.
I'm Sachin Shaw. Uh I'm the CEO of
Brookfield Wealth Solutions. Our
business is also focused on retirement
and the aging population in the United
States. And we predominantly focus on
providing people with annuities and
income for life, which has been a
growing part of the financial management
and wealth management sector in the
United States. I think that's a really
good jumping off point to talk a little
bit more about this retirement
population because there's both a volume
and a velocity point about the
retirement population in the United
States and how it will grow over time.
So, can you just give us a little bit of
a lay of the land around how this has
changed in a very short period of time?
Yeah. Well, 40 years ago, the retirement
landscape really started to change. And
it started to change at the beginning of
the baby boomer's careers. And now we've
run that 40-year experiment. And the
experiment was with do-it-yourself
pension plans with defined contribution
IAS, 401ks. On top of that were
stagnating wages for the bottom 90% of
workers. And on top of that was a
decline in unions. And that matters for
retirement because unions were the
institution that promoted defined
benefit plans that gave 40% of
households in 1992, that cohort of
retirees, a guaranteed annuity for life.
But now we've come to the end of baby
boomers careers and we now will see 63
million people between the ages of 50
and 64 who are near retirement. and
they're coming into retirement with the
threat of social security being cut.
They're coming into retirement with
hardly any defined benefit wealth and
they're coming into retirement with some
401k or IRA wealth that they have no
idea how to manage to last for the rest
of their lives. So that's the table
setting 63 million Americans who have a
very different kind of pension
management problem than cohorts before.
Satchin, I know there's obviously a view
from your standpoint on this gap, what
the need is relative to what's out
there.
Sure. I think fundamentally the view is
exactly the same in terms of the need.
We frame it as one in six Americans is
in that retirement age today, which
lines up nicely with your 60 million.
And if you look at the curve out the
next 20 years, it becomes 1 in4 really
quickly. and people are living longer
and people are having fewer children
which means that the pressure on society
as a whole to look after an aging cohort
is going to increase and to put that
burden on those people who need the help
when they retire by just giving them a
lump sum and telling them to fend for
themselves seems like an impossible
task. What are the ingredients for that
person to live a financially secure
postretirement period of their life?
They need to have obviously some amount
that they've saved. Doesn't matter if
it's 50,000, 150,000, 200,000. That's
irrelevant. But they need to have some
amount that they've saved. And I would
say 90% of people are not coming from a
financial background. They're people who
work at a steel mill. They work as
teachers. They're firefighters. Those
people shouldn't all of a sudden have to
become experts at managing money. That
it seems almost absurd that at the same
time that they're ending their career,
they've got to understand how to price a
stock. So what you need is people with
some level of savings matched up with
financial products that allow that
savings to grow at a reasonable rate
devoid of what happens in the stock
market for a long period of time. And
then what you need is the people who are
offering that product coming back to a
Brookfield to have substantial capital
to be highly rated to have a long track
record of operating businesses
responsibly and to be able to have the
operational and financial skills such
that they can be along for the journey
with that person for however long they
choose to buy that product. And I think
our business is really designed around
bridging that whole gap and offering
people stable income for life with a
regular return. some level of tax
advantage to it because it's in an
insurance product can do so many things
in terms of driving health outcomes,
financial security outcomes, estate
planning outcomes. We spend much of our
time trying to figure out how can we
keep these products very simple. How can
we ensure that these products are well
understood and then how do we ensure
that we build a business that has the
capital and the risk management around
it such that we're in the best position
to serve these people for the next 40 or
50 years. That would be our business in
a nutshell.
Insurance companies make sense and a big
trusted insurance company makes sense
because you have the capital and the
experience that you'll be here to pay
their annuities for 20 40 years. There
are a lot of people who don't ever worry
about taxes or estate planning because
they have a median income of under
$100,000 and they'll be lucky if they
can buy presents for their
grandchildren. But they still need
annuities. That's what's actually
striking to me. Even if you have 50 to
80 to $100,000, you still need some
product. The truth is that those 63
million people, half of them are coming
into retirement with something other
than social security, and their median
wealth is about $100,000. So, I'm
looking forward to seeing what a big
company like you can do for them.
Yeah, it's funny what you're
instinctively saying actually plays out
in the data. So, we sell predominantly
two products. We sell a very simple
product that just pays people a fixed
rate for 10 years and they can then just
keep it going really until death if they
choose. It has no bells and whistles.
And the average size of the annuity we
sell in that product tends to be for
lower income lower income demographic
folks. And the average size of a
depositor or the annuity is $60,000.
Yeah.
60 to 70 in that range.
Makes total sense.
We also equally sell another product
that has some equity upside, some bells
and whistles attached to it. And what
we're finding is it's more of a mass
affluent product.
Yeah.
And there the average size of our policy
is about 150,000. We distribute through
almost every channel. We have our own
in-house agents which is actually quite
unusual in the sector. We have
approximately a thousand agents who work
for us and who build relationships.
That's number one. And then number two
is there's the adviser network. And then
number three, there's banks. Banks where
people are on their wealth platforms.
That's for the more higher income
earning people. We have coverage across
all three. And I'd say the reason the
agent force is so important is because
often the agents are the ones who have
the relationship with people who can't
get onto the bank channels. So it's to a
lower income cohort. Yeah.
And I think for us it was important that
we build across income cohorts because
they want different things. They need
different things. But I'd say from our
vantage point, both products we still
try to ensure they're very simple and
they're very long-term. Because if you
can create simple long-term products
where these folks don't need to feel
like they need to be investment experts
and they can explain it to their
friends, then it drives certainty in the
future and that leads to so many good
outcomes. This is beyond the products
that you offer. Perhaps you will offer
this product, but I've been advocating
for it in Congress and with the
executive branch, the Department of
Labor for about 15 years. And that's the
idea of a bridge annuity. So you take
your $70,000 or $60,000 and instead of
stretching it out your whole retirement
life, you stretch it to a late social
security age. So if you can get them to
not collect social security earlier,
people will have a 77% increase in their
monthly benefit if they wait between 62
and 70. I think a lot of financial
planners are telling people to
deaccumulate that way. go first to your
401k and then wait as long as you can
for social security
which is sort of counterproductive to
what you're getting at which is if you
wait you'll actually get a higher social
security and you'll have even greater
certainty. I think you're right and
maybe I'm optimistic in this regard but
I would say the industry is still
relatively new. So today people are just
trying to sell these products. demand is
growing every year, but the level of
sophistication needs to grow and the
outcomes need to be optimized for the
retiree as opposed to the intermediary
who's trying to sell it. And to get
there, I think a combination of
regulatory push, government incentives,
not incentives per se to anybody, but
government frameworks that drive this
type of behavior. And then insurance
companies all working together to say,
"Hey, can we provide a product where we
almost supplement that period where you
have to wait between retirement and
optimal social security in exchange for
an annuity that then starts to kick in
afterwards. I I think it'll come because
I think the demand will be there, but to
create the demand, people need to be
educated on optimal outcomes.
I'm hearing you both mention quite a
number of groups that are very large and
have a lot of influence, the government,
private institutions, but a lot of that
rests on this fundamental idea of trust,
a trust in the system, trust in what's
being offered, trust in how it works
alongside this gap in education. So, do
you have a view on what it's going to
take to bring that together? The decline
in trust is coming from two places. A
lot of volatility in the stock market. A
realization for people that they don't
have as much as they thought they would.
$60,000 and what was it? $50,000
$40,000 really doesn't meet the mark. If
you want to supplement your social
security and maintain your living
standards, I gulp when my data tells me
that or I have to tell anybody that.
Only a large insurance company should be
doing this. Yeah, I think the regulation
has a big role to play here. The
regulators have grown increasingly
sophisticated and I think this whole
industry really should be designed for
large scale players. I don't think it's
necessarily healthy for smaller players
with less capital to be trafficking in
these products because of the nature of
the product. It's a 40-year. You're
making a 40-year commitment to somebody,
right?
So, I don't have a view as to how you
get there, but I do know that regulators
care deeply about this topic. They're
very focused on it. There's a level of
education and the role of education that
the government could drive. If you have
one in four people in this country
becoming 65 or over, the government
could drive the education campaign
around this. And between the regulators
and the government and large carriers,
there's a lot of work to do just to
ensure people really understand what
they're getting and they're not being
sold something that doesn't actually
solve the problem that we're talking
about.
You are so right, SA. A government
regulator really needs to be front and
center. One thing that's on the side of
annuities is that people really want
them. I've done some investigation of
the medical, psychological, and economic
work on what it means to a family to not
have guaranteed income and the benefits
to a family of having a stream of
benefit for the rest of their lives. If
I could just talk about one aspect of
the benefits of having your elder parent
have a stream of income for the rest of
their lives is that your own financial
future as a 40-year-old or 50year-old is
a lot more secure if you know that you
don't have to take some of your kids
college money or some of your own 401k.
We see women do that for their mothers
and mothers-in-law because your parent
has some security and you don't have to
watch the stock market and when you
watch the stock market you don't even
know what you're watching. So, we've
seen about 30% of black, Hispanic, and
lowincome workers have younger children,
adult children having to take money out
of their accounts or actually cut back
on the labor market because of that huge
gap. That's where the government has to
step in too on long-term care. That's a
real metalayer concept of benefit,
right? Financial benefit, mental
benefit, the whole long-term planning
view. That's something I think in the
various roles that you've had at
Brookfield Satchin, you've really seen
from a lot of different facets. What is
the fit here for this industry with
Brookfield?
Whether they just buy a 5-year product
cuz they're just dipping their toe, or
they buy a 10-year convert to income for
life product, which could be a 30,
40-year relationship, your partner, we
view ourselves as the partner to that
person, needs to have the financial
wherewithal, the operational
wherewithal, the risk wherewithal to be
able to support that person along the
way. That's the business we've been
trying to build at Brookfield,
recognizing these could be 40-year
relationships.
And what I would say is over time, if
the products could actually evolve such
that there's periods where the person
doesn't need the money, so it just stays
in the account or there's periods where
they need a little bit more, that's
actually a good thing cuz then they can
optimize outcomes. And what I've been
telling my teams is just when you're out
there talking to adviserss, when you're
talking to wealth planning people, even
encouraging retirees or near retirees to
dip their toe in the water with just a
five-year product is a good place to
start. If you buy a 5-year product and 5
years from now you got what you signed
up for and you're only 53, it gives you
a ton of confidence before you hit
retirement to do it again. This time you
might do 10 years,
right? And optimize a little bit,
right? And you might say, "Ah, actually,
you know, I'm going to buy 10 and maybe
and I'll have the option to annuitize
it." So I think this is the kind of
thing where what I hope is that our
products actually start to appeal to
younger people maybe in their 40s not
even their 50s and it's more of a dip
your toe in the water strategy and what
you're doing is you're building their
knowledge base around the trust of the
annuity and their counterparty not
around the stock market. I want to
summarize. I think you said look people
are going to need to have money and
security in old age and you also implied
that you want to help them with the
accumulation phase. So as early as
possible if you can get 30 year olds you
know time is on their side so much
better.
So much better.
And that you want to help them with the
accumulation and the growth phase
investment growth phase and you're there
to help them with the deaccumulation
phase.
Yes. Which is true partnership. Right.
And and that's in a way mimicking what
defined benefit plans had done before.
Unfortunately, we've had 40 years where
people have constructed their own
portfolio with products that their
employer put together. So people had 72
options of some kind of public equity
account. I mean we had really very
suboptimal portfolios. So they didn't
actually grow what they were
accumulating. And because the structure
of government regulation is such that
we're the only country that people can
take out tax favored retirement accounts
before retirement to remodel a kitchen
to do whatever their lives have
immediate need for money. But other
countries and the defined benefit system
and social security are such that you
plan for those needs someplace other
than your money that's meant to last
your lifetime. It's especially harmful
for women who have 401ks because it
seems the literature is showing us that
a 401k for a woman is seen as a family
nest egg to be used during your
children's and your life and the
husband's is the true retirement
planning. Well, marriages don't last as
long as annuities and it's not a good
portfolio bet um for a woman. So,
getting rid of that loophole would be
really good. The only way that people
will even have a chance of having enough
is to start saving early. That matters
even more than the rate of return. But
rate of return matters a lot. You have
some things on your side. I've never
seen a generation of younger people more
financially aware. So you have Gen Z
seeing their baby boomers parents in a
huge mess and a lot of anxiety and a lot
of student debt. Many boomers are moving
into their retirement years with
substantial student debt for their own.
I'm curious cuz you're very steeped in
the data and a lot of the research
that's going on in real time. Are there
other aspects that has surprised you,
encouraged you, had you take a look at
this in a way you didn't expect? A lot
more interest among younger people, a
lot more financial savvy, and I don't
think it has much to do with the
financial education in school. There's
only a couple of places where people pay
attention to finances keenly. You have
to find those teaching moments and it's
not in fourth grade when you're doing
the stand.
Right. Right. Present value calculations
in fourth grade.
Yeah. In spite of how much I try
teaching my kids about anything. You're
right. You have you have to find the the
teaching moment. So you can really teach
the value of compound interest.
Everybody should know that. That's
magic. Total magic. But instilling
confidence that you can manage a
portfolio into your 70s, 80s, and 90s,
it's just not possible. Half of the
people who are aging will be in some
cognitive decline. The first stages of
cognitive decline is missing paying
bills or being susceptible to
fraudsters, scammers. So, it's hard
enough to do the math, but to do it when
you're alone and old and may be
challenged with memory issues is really
nasty. The rate of financial scamming
has almost doubled in the last four
years and it will only increase as
people start taking their 401ks out of
their income and every elder knows it
and elders fall for it. There was an
article in the I think it was in the
Wall Street Journal of a financial
advisor who actually sent money to get
his grandkid out of jail. Of course,
that was a scam. It was a call and he
says, "I knew it the moment I did it
that I was taken." So the scammers know
you better than you know yourself and
they're very good at it. And if you have
an annuity, you're only at risk for that
monthly check. You're not at risk for
your whole lump sum.
Well, look, today if you read the paper,
there's more print dedicated to crypto
than there is to annuities.
So that that tells you a lot about the
level of knowledge that's out there.
Every 30-year-old who's not in finance
probably should have a little bit of an
annuity in their portfolio as part of
their forced way of savings because to
your point, compounding is the magic of
finance and it's going to grow for the
next 30 years and they're going to
retire and be thankful that they put
away a little bit of money every year
and yet you talk to a 30-year-old and
they're asking you what the price of
Bitcoin is.
Yeah. Right. Right.
Right. So this is where when you talk
about policy and education and the
government's role, this is where I think
the role should be played. It's on the
education of safer outcomes for the mass
of people
cuz if you did that it would drive so
many ancillary benefits around healthare
stress physical education. All these
things are all connected and I think
you're spot on. Young people need to
also be educated that annuities simple
annuities and certainty of compounding
is something that they shouldn't shy
away from. it actually will help them.
And some people have parents that give
them that financial savvy as an
inheritance or bequest and other people
don't. So having to manage money this
way, having to know when to start
saving, feeling secure enough to save
when you're a 25year-old really is a
very difficult way to expect people to
be secure in old age. So there has to be
some safeguards. I'm trying to get my
universities to allow graduate students
into annuity products. I taught a
freshman class, a first year seminar at
Notre Dame and it was in the fall and at
the end of the class, one of my students
says, "I'm asking my parents for an
annuity." I asked her about that.
Remember, she has boomer parents. They
had no idea what that was. In fact, they
weren't savers. Um, they were debtors
and so they might have been talking at
odds. The government rules, signpost,
packaging, even the language of social
security can really change and help
behavior. Before I came here today, I
read a brand new study that was
published this year on the impact of
annuities on workers' lives. There was
an experiment that had two groups and
constructed it so that one group were
really primed to choose annuities when
they retired and the other group was
were primed to go lump sum and manage it
on their own. And they found that over
time the group that expected to get an
annuity changed their health behavior.
They said that they would actually pay
more for a more extensive checkup. And
then when they put them in a lab and
told them this didn't have anything to
do with the experiment, but they just
wanted to see their exercise rate. The
group that expected to get an annuity
actually exercise faster. And so there's
kind of a fatalism and a sense of not
having control if you have to manage
your own money because many things that
happens to that money is out of your
control. So, one indication of that is
to take a Hail Mary, buy lottery
tickets, or go into crypto. There's this
sense that the only thing I have on my
side is maybe I'll be lucky. And someone
with an annuity actually has a whole
architecture of their life that's
completely different that I think we're
going to find more and more
psychological effects. There were other
studies that have tried to find
similarly situated people control for
everything they can control for except
whether or not they got their pension
through an annuity or they got it
through a lump sum. They're picking up
differences between these two groups.
The group with an annuity will report
more satisfaction with their retirement,
especially as they age, and they report
a higher level of subjective well-being
on a number of measurements. I'm only
hearing positive effects really from all
sides. What do either of you feel is one
of the single biggest contributors to
really starting to close this gap
outside of education and accessibility
to annuities? Is there a nitro button?
No. I got into this 5 years ago and my
eyes opened up because I would have
thought this is a no-brainer. Why are
more people not buying this? It makes
complete logical sense for financial
security and the regulations are by and
large very good. They require you to
hold a lot of capital and to sell this
you need to be rated. All of our
carriers are A-rated. 50 states across
the US regulate us and all of our
information is in the public domain. So
I would have thought, well, if you have
transparency, you have capital, you have
a rating, and you're leading the
industry in terms of your ability to
deliver these products, why are they not
sold more? I still can't quite figure it
out. I think what it is is that it's not
part of the regular financial discourse
every day. People love to talk about
stock markets. Even people who don't
know a lot about stock markets talk
about Nvidia is going up or it's going
down. And this is where I come back to I
think a coordinated national campaign
around the importance of these products
to help people bridge the years towards
retirement actually could help. We've
had coordinated government-ledd
campaigns on so many things. Say no to
drugs. That was a coordinated campaign.
So why not financial security? Why not
planning for retirement? Today when you
look at commercials around annuities,
they're just done by the individual
insurance company. and two people around
a table, but why not actually have this
as a really meaningful part of the
dialogue? And even with younger folks,
so much of the dialogue today is about
how you're going to pay back your
student debt. At the same time, there
could be a tieback to, well, how are you
going to save for your future? Maybe
there's policy initiatives that drive,
if you're able to do that, you get some
sort of tax benefit that then can go to
paying off your student debt. There's so
many things you can do that are creative
here.
Maybe I think you're up against a couple
of things. One is trust in for-profit
financial firms. There is actually a lot
of distrust of 401ks. So having an
insurance company tell you in an ad that
this is a good thing even though it is.
You need another validator. Also, and I
think too much emphasis is on this, but
you're up against human nature where
most people think they're going to die
sooner than they actually are. And
that's probably because a generation
before them did die sooner than their
average expected life and they don't
realize how expensive that is. We should
pay attention to teaching moments. It's
probably not when you're watching a
soccer game and you get an ad from an
insurance company. It's at the point
that you start saving at your workplace.
Even if there isn't a annuity product in
a 401k, the importance of saving for a
guaranteed income could be part of what
employers do. And I think big employers
actually do that. One of the fundamental
tenants of finance is still
diversification. And I think the the
diversification discussion over the last
70 80 years has been stocks and bonds.
The reality is that conversation needs
to be much more nuanced today where it's
stocks and bonds but now it's annuities
and a guaranteed income and by the way
there should be some alternative assets
in there and you need to have this
diverse portfolio and depending on your
income level the layers at which you can
think about it are more detailed. I just
think that we've always had this very
binary stocks and bonds and that's it.
Yeah.
And that's really hard for most people.
It is. And I'm curious because we've
started to enter this sector in other
countries. Is there anything to learn
from systems that are not where we sit
in this exact moment in Canada or in the
UK or others that can give us maybe some
of that foresight into where there's
some white space?
Yeah, in both Canada and the UK, I would
say it's very similar to the US. And I
would say maybe the social safety net in
the US is a bit more vulnerable given
the size of the population and just a
much bigger place. So I would say the
need to educate and really change the
dialogue is much more pressing here
because of the size of the the
marketplace here.
There's that too. Other countries don't
let you take your money out of of your
retirement accounts for for retirement
if they're going to give you a tax break
for it. And that really changes the
framing that this is money for your
retirement, not all those other things
that you need. And therefore structuring
it so it it lasts your retirement. Well,
and it goes back to this point you're
making about human nature and the whole
context setting around it.
But I don't want to overestimate that.
We have research what you have defined,
but we call it an annuity puzzle where
people really want guaranteed income,
but they don't buy the product. So
that's the puzzle and too much emphasis
has been on that miscalculating life
expectancy. Sure.
A lot of it is the trust in the
insurance industry where government
really doesn't help saying what a
A-rated insurance company is or what a
B-rated is. It really doesn't help. And
you're still going back to this concept
of trust. Once the education is there
and once the understanding of access is
there, you still have to inherently
trust that this insurance company will
do right by you over that very long
period of time. And figuring out what
those core tenants are and how to
communicate them seems like the
cornerstone of this. You know, it could
end with this cohort. The last cohort,
the last generation, the baby boomer
generation, was not well served by
government regulation and by the
industry. Their kids and their grandkids
are seeing the result of that.
Um, something has to change so that this
generation trusts their social security
more and trusts that the money they're
putting aside for their retirement will
have a 40-year or relationship with
them. We saw it before so we can do it
but it does require a big change.
Yeah. And one of the potential ways to
do that is to actually have the decision
made at the employer level. So right
when you enter the workforce employers
are not just offering you a matching
program but are also training and
educating you around allocation to
annuities because it's hard at 60 or 65
to start to trust some entirely new
third party.
Right. Absolutely.
That's a difficult decision. It's almost
as difficult as what stock to buy.
Right.
But if you
already
recommend an annuity just on the shelf
as a product recommendation and the
employer should be the one vetting the
trustworthiness of that annuity and that
will allow people to get comfortable
with it such that as they get later in
their lifetime it's not a foreign
product anymore. It's something they've
been doing for a long time.
We can go a step further. Perhaps your
target group are employers. If you look
at the flow of funds at the Federal
Reserve, most retirement money that you
accumulate at the workplace were in
guaranteed investment contracts and
those were the contracts your employer
bought for you.
Yes.
So there's a concept instead of putting
so much money matching to a forlorn
401k, the employers could start buying
these annuity contracts
and providing the same matching program.
Yeah. Exactly.
Right. which would solve a lot of
problems because if you're matching 6%
as an example and you're getting it into
a tax deferred insurance account, it's
the same tax benefit as the 401k and
you've already started to help that
person planning for their long-term
retirement plans.
Employers care about their employees
financial futures. They may be the first
to do it and lead the way. So, actually
employers may be one of your biggest
marketers.
Looks like we're coming up to a solution
here.
Yeah, maybe maybe that's the 2.0 version
of this podcast. We go out and we try to
talk to employers. it
and try to encourage them to actually do
this.
Yeah. Employers are usually dropped out
of this conversation. It's between
worker advocates, retirey advocates,
industry advocates, and employers are
often forgotten.
You're right. And when I said it's the
carrier and the person, the individual
at the relationship, and there's eight
layers between the employer nowhere to
be seen in that
and they're trusted. And the teaching
moment is when you're at the workplace.
Even workers who are in debt should be
financially counseledled to save for
their retirement. I know there's a whole
industry around advising new doctors and
athletes. Athletes usually aren't in
debt by the time they're done, but
doctors are wholly in debt, but they're
going into a high income management. And
they're scientists. They're not numbers
people. But they say, don't think that
you're responsible by paying down your
medical student debt and then save for
retirement. That's a bit of everything.
Yeah. And if you told those doctors in
fourth grade about compound interest,
that's not the teaching moment. So, we
have to find those moments in life. I
completely agree.
Yeah.
Walking away from this conversation, it
sounds like there's one or two really
important things for big institutions to
know and to take away and maybe for
individuals. What sticks in your mind?
I would frame it this way. The need
today is very real and growing for these
products in scale. The general
population in the US deeply needs this.
That's the problem we're trying to
solve. Number one. Number two is the
desire by companies like Brookfield to
offer these products in a simple way
where you have a relationship for a very
long period of time that actually solve
the need is also available in scale. So
we have a need that we've identified and
we have somebody who's offering a
solution and what we need now is a
strategy that educates people,
incentivizes people to procure these
products and ensures that through
education and incentives trust grows as
opposed to diminishes that these will be
there for the long term and regulation
has a role to play in all of that and I
think if you could do that it's a $400
billion market today annuities but it
should comfortably be two trillion if
not more.
There are humanitarian reasons to have
annuities and people instinctively know
that they will be better off in
retirement if they have annuities. The
demographics here are inevitable. This
is partially what's going on with the
people that exist today and all those
that will come after. So, it's really
about learning from what we've seen and
potentially not repeating that again.
We really had a bad run there. A 40-year
experiment with a unique pension design.
No other country adopted it quite like
us. Canada and UK do have some aspects
but most of the savings is mandatory and
it's actually saved and managed by the
government. So, United States really
stands out and this is a time for us for
self-reflection and not pass on that
legacy. Stop that inheritance of harm
and anxiety and indebtedness.
Well, thank you both for joining us
today. It was great to have you. Learned
a lot. Thank you.
Yeah, thank you.
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information.
All references to dollars are to US
dollars. This letter to shareholders
contains forward-looking information
within the meaning of Canadian
Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries.
as well as the outlook for North
American and international economies for
the current fiscal year and subsequent
periods and which in turn are based on
our experience and perception of
historical trends, current conditions
and expected future developments as well
as other factors management believes are
appropriate in the circumstances. The
estimates, beliefs, and assumptions of
Brookfield Corporation are inherently
subject to significant business,
economic, competitive, and other
uncertainties and contingencies
regarding future events and as such are
subject to change. Forward-looking
statements are typically identified by
words such as expect, anticipate,
believe, foresee, could, estimate, goal,
intend, plan, seek, strive, will, may,
and should, and similar expressions. In
particular, the forward-looking
statements contained in this letter
include statements referring to the
impact of current market or economic
conditions on our business, the future
state of the economy or the securities
market, the Castle Lake acquisition,
including its expected impact on our
business, the anticipated allocation and
deployment of our capital, our liquidity
and ability to access and raise capital,
our fundraising targets, our target
growth objectives, and our target
carried interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions
including acquisitions and dispositions.
The ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. the
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24. Risks
specific to our business segments,
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States.
We caution that the foregoing list of
important factors that may affect future
results is not exhaustive and other
factors could also adversely affect
future results. Readers are urged to
consider these risks as well as other
uncertainties, factors, and assumptions
carefully in evaluating the
forward-looking statements and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a
guarantee of future results. There can
be no assurance that comparable results
will be achieved in the future, that
future investments will be similar to
historic investments discussed herein,
that targeted returns, growth
objectives, diversification, or asset
allocations will be met, or that an
investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued. Any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of noniffr measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS.
We caution readers that these non-IFRS
financial measures or other financial
metrics are not standardized under IFRS
and may differ from the financial
measures or other financial metrics
disclosed by other businesses and as a
result may not be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers and
entities.
We make reference to distributable
earnings which refers to the sum of
distributable earnings from our asset
management business. Distributable
operating earnings from our insurance
solutions business, distributions
received from our ownership of
investments, realized carried interest
and disposition gains from principal
investments, net of preferred share
dividends, and equity-based compensation
costs. We also make reference to
distributable earnings before
realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonifress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these noniffress
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
Audiation.
