[music]
Automatica is the largest gaming player
in Italy. We do three things. We do
online, we do sports betting, and we do
gaming machines. We spent years looking
at Italian gaming companies. And we
developed a relationship with Google
that we saw an opportunity to
consolidate the Italian gaming space and
shifted business from predominantly
offline to predominantly online gaming.
One of the keys to almost any Apollo
private equity investment is working
with great management teams. Not just
buying a company at a great valuation,
but then taking that company,
transforming it.
>> In the case of Automatica, that bent
support in key areas of their business
like marketing, product, financial
planning and analysis.
>> We put together the retail and the
online offer in a manner which brings uh
convenience to the client. We have a
portfolio of brands and which allow us
to target different type of customers.
The responsible approach that we have in
our relationship with our customer base.
It's been a very [music] symbiotic
partnership with Apollo. They've helped
us in all matters going from strategy to
finance operations and they really
tailored the approach to the Italian
market. So which was very well received
by investors
>> through our ACS team Apollo Capital
Solutions. Apollo funds are able to help
portfolio companies manage the entire
exit process, whether it's going public
or selling to a strategic or selling to
a sponsor. Despite the market
volatility, the IPO was successful. From
IPO to full exit, it took just 25
months. Lamatica demonstrates what
Apollo does best, executing with
conviction in any market environment.
Through several acquisitions and
substantial organic growth, by the time
Apollo funds exited their investment in
Lamatica, the business was almost eight
times as large as the original
acquisition.
>> Apollo knows how to bring companies to
market and stay with them throughout the
entire realization, leaving them better
positioned and with stronger potential
outcomes.
>> We're supporting the European economy
when we help these companies achieve
[music] the next level through our
capital.
>> It's been a phenomenal journey
partnering together with Apollo. I think
it's been probably one of the most
rewarding experiences I've ever had
professionally.
>> As a result of the efforts of the
management team and the Apollo deal
teams, I believe that Lamatica
ultimately [music] became the most
innovative gaming company in not only
Italy, but all of Europe.
[music]
