[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high-n networth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, Bill welcomes Andre
Masiel, founder of Vulp Capital and
former leader of SoftBank's Latin
America operations. They explore the
evolution of venture capital in the
region from post.com investments to
today's AI fueled innovations. Andre
reflects on his career at JP Morgan and
SoftBank, the rise of Latin American
startups, and the importance of timing
in tech investing. The conversation also
addresses AI adoption, due diligence in
emerging markets, regional challenges
like bureaucracy, and the potential for
AI to transform inefficiencies. They
wrap with insights on regulation,
talent, and Brazil's growing investment
ecosystem.
[Music]
Andre Martial, welcome to Educational
Alpha. Thank you very much, Bill. A lot
to cover and a lot for me to learn, a
lot for our listeners to learn as well.
And I think broadly speaking, we're
going to be covering the wonderful world
of venture capital. Maybe with a bit of
a lean toward AI. And here I mean
artificial intelligence, not alternative
investments. But before we get into
that, a little bit of your formative
years, Andre, you've had some very good
world-class names as employers and you
were able to cut your teeth and build a
resume and maybe build curiosity and
maybe a due diligence lens at some very
good shops. But let's just start with
your background. Thank you, Bill. I
graduated in business in Brazil. That
was back in 2002. It was an odd time. It
was right after the docom bubble in the
US. But back in Brazil, we're having the
first elections of Lula. So the politics
were leaning towards the left. No one
really knew what was going to happen.
The sovereign risk of Brazil at that
point was trading at 30% per year. 30%
sovereign risk. So I joined JP Morgan,
an area JP Morgan had of making direct
private investments was a franchise
called JP Morgan Partners. And you think
about challenges today. think about
doing investments on the sovereign US
bonds of your counter trading at 30% per
year. How can you justify a private
investment in a situation like that? You
know, it was quite an interesting time
to join private investing. Back in 2002,
JP Morgan and Chase, they had invested
significantly in Latin America during
the docom bubble. There were a lot of
companies were formed during those
years. There was a company called
Patagonia that sold for a huge sum of
money. That was how Mickey Mala from
Ribbit first made his first big exit.
And then there are several other
companies that had been very successful
in raising capital, maybe not as
successful in building businesses, but
being part of the franchise, I had done
most of those investments during the
late 90s and early 2000s. My first job
was to review a list of about a 100
companies and no one else wanted to take
a look. And that was basically handed to
me at my desk and say the first thing I
need to do is complete portfolio reviews
for these companies because no one cares
about them. And the firm had moved on to
invest in infrastructure in commodities
all those things that Brazil has always
had some sort of advantage historically.
It was quite interesting to see what was
the aftermath of those excess years.
Most of those companies they went
bankrupt. But among those companies
there was a 17% stake in a company that
was called Mercado Li that today is the
largest company in Latin America. So
that 17% stake today will be worth north
of $15 billion. There was 10% stake in a
company called americanas.com and ST a
company called Sub Marino that at that
time became very large companies as
well. So part of my lesson is that maybe
some of those ideas and some of those
investments they were slightly ahead of
time but they were great ideas and maybe
the market was not ready for them but
when the market became ready for them
they became very important company. So I
got to see the evolution of that first
company that I did a portfolio review
when they had about $3 million in
revenues to becoming a company that was
worth almost $100 billion 23 years
later. So that was the first portion of
my career. Then I moved to the
investment banking. JP Mor decided to
shut down the direct investment practice
with all the the new regulation. And in
the investment banking I was responsible
for the M&A practice in Brazil. I was
responsible for capital markets and I
was responsible for a pet project which
was covering technology companies and
during most of my career there was like
not much to do because the technology
companies are tiny in Latin America.
Generally technology is not associated
with the region. And at some point I did
realize that my clients were tiny. They
were becoming big and they were becoming
big as a result of two main things. One,
cellular adoption became widespread.
Smartphone adoption. So most of the
population Latin America now had means
of getting certain in the digital
economy. And in some countries, digital
means of payment were growing a lot.
Credit cards and other digital means of
payment. So people now could look at the
internet and they could buy things
online. And that basically has changed
the dynamic of technology development in
the region. and those companies started
to take advantage of that and grow very
fast. So I said maybe there's an
opportunity to invest in them and that's
when I did my first big shift in career.
I decided to launch a fund back in 2018
to invest in those companies. I think
the timing was perfect. The market was
just starting to take off in Latin
America. That fund got quickly acquired
by SoftBank. So they invited me to
launch the operations in Latin America.
The plan of that fund was to raise $100
million, start small, grow from there.
But Soft Bank had much bigger plans. So
at first they wanted to invest $2
billion which I thought was doable
because all the companies lately were
starved for cash. And the initial
success of those investments that Soft
Bank did soon attracted a lot of
capital. So even Soft Bank grew to $8
billion. There were others coming to the
region. I thought it was too much at a
fast pace. So I left soft bank at that
point and then launched our fund that's
called Vulpit and Vulpit right now is
investing out of a fund of $100 million
which I think is somewhat the right side
to operate in the region. I appreciate
that Andre. So a few questions and
observations and then we can get on to
maybe the heart of the discussion. So
it's interesting you alluded early on in
your career some of your exposure to the
fledgling days of the internet and I
don't know if there's comparisons to be
drawn or not but I think throughout the
course of my career there's always this
concept of first mover advantage but
when it comes to technology I think it's
more a first mover's disadvantage
because they're spending all the money
making a lot of mistakes and the next
dollar is sitting on the sidelines
watching an example I've used quite
often and younger students or
professionals will never remember the
name of Netscape, but they had the
browser market. It was theirs and now
they're gone and it's Google. So, if I
draw a comparison, and I think I saw
this in one of your notes that you may
have shared with me, Open AI was a
category killer and then all of a sudden
mainland China pulls the curtain back
and this deep seek animal is hiding
behind it doing things for a fraction of
the cost. So I don't know if there's a
question or observation there but maybe
it is about this concept of a first
mover disadvantage when it comes with
disruptive new technology. Ala Vista and
several others on the internet search
landscape. I think in technology instead
of buying equity or buying a call option
because not only you need to get the
name right but you need to get the
timing right. If you buy a call option
to ahead of time, it expires before you
have had the chance to exercise it. And
if you buy it too something that has the
isor that's too far out, you're going to
pay too much. So you need to buy that
call option at the right time. There are
points where simply societies are not
ready for that type of technology yet.
So being at the right moment, at the
right time is part of investing in
technology. That's for sure. In Latin
America, that's for sure as well. The
advantage that we do have in Latin
America is that I don't think we need to
be very creative in the types of
technologies that we are trying to
implement there because we do have a leg
to more developed markets. So we can see
what's working elsewhere. Maybe we will
not be able to invest in global
companies that take a certain technology
global but when the concept is adapting
what's possible with this new technology
local needs there's a lot that can be
done and in this field I think AI is
phenomenal because we always have had a
lack of developers in the region and now
that AI is able to leverage the
developers that we have over there.
There are a lot of solutions that could
be done better for technology. the big
spend in somebody else's market presents
maybe some unique opportunities. And
just a data point I saw last week, Meta,
Amazon, Alphabet, and Microsoft have
been on record. Collectively just in
2025 alone, they're going to spend $320
billion of AI. So, it's here to stay.
But quoting you or one of your letters,
I thought it was a great description
about AI. Incipient yet
transformational. I think the way we
talk about it as if it's been around for
a long time, but Chad GPT entered the
vernacular not that many quarters ago,
but yet there's a ton of money being
thrown at it. And I think you either
were or maybe sitting right now in
Miami, and you certainly as an investor
have to pay attention with to global
trends. But how do you look at what's
happening in countries like the United
States or regions like parts of North
America versus what you might see in
Latam? I think the cool thing about this
technology is that even people who are
very close to it, they do not have a
very precise answer. You hear the
investor relations call from Alibaba a
few weeks ago when they're talking about
how they're doing their AI development.
They call the technology
transformational. But in terms of
applications, how things will grow from
there, they say even for us, it's too
early to understand what will be all the
total implications of what's being built
here. And when you talk at people at
OpenAI, there are a few Brazilians that
I talk to from time to time or some of
these other companies, they say the
same. A lot of what we're building is
based on trial and error. There is a lot
of what's being built, but there is
really no blueprint for what we're
trying to do. So we don't know there's a
lot of new ways of doing things that are
definitely coming up. So we are very
careful when you have this technology
shifts of being all in in a certain
assumption because when people who are
doing it they are not quite sure how the
things will develop I think the
investors who are a layer apart or maybe
a few layers apart is difficult for you
to take an alling approach. We're yet to
see all the different ramifications. But
only a few months ago, what was seen as
something that you could not build of
unbelievable computing power, a model
like open AI now is being built by the
Chinese with maybe less so now and
financial announcement. They built a
model using Chinese native chips. So
it's interesting to see everything
that's happening. You know, it's
transformational. I don't think there is
anyone who has all the answers, but
it'll change everything. Taking this
more specifically into the Latam market,
I think I understand your investment
universe. It's primarily Brazil, maybe
Mexico and the rest of Latam. You don't
go beyond those regions generally
speaking. Yes, we invest generally in
Latam. Yes. And your LPs, where are
those dollars coming from? Are they
Latam sourced as well? A good chunk of
those dollars is coming from Brazil.
Soft Bank's an investor in us as well.
there are a few international ops and we
have an institutional op in the US. So,
as you think about then attacking this
market in terms of earning a fair return
for your investors, which is the name of
the game, as we talked about a moment
ago before we hit the record switch,
when you're dealing with very explosive
and everchanging technology, which you
have in software in general, but more
specifically in AI, the challenge for
somebody like you, Andre, is that you're
beginning fundraising in one cycle,
ending fundraising in a different cycle,
invest investing in another and then
liquidating in another one still. So
there's a lot of different things you
have to pay attention to and what you
thought was going to happen when you
began fundraising and what's happening
on the other end at exits are
dramatically different things especially
again when the underlying asset is
changing so dramatically as well and
there's nothing much you can do about
that but as you think about trying to
get something right and I'm not trying
to put words in your mouth but I think
starting with a more finite set of
dollars and a finite set of investable
companies gives you at least a lot of
running room because you're not trying
to resolve issues across four or five
different portfolios trying to invest
dry powder. Sometimes size is an
advantage and bigger is better. But when
you have this pace of change, maybe
smaller is better too. So maybe some of
your general views on those various
observations. you say well I think when
is a very easy time to fund raise for a
fund it's probably a terrible time to be
deploying very quickly in companies so
we've seen that from time to time the
rule that I think has not changed that
when there is too many people fishing as
Charlie Mer said in the same pond you're
not going to get a lot of fish and we
seen that in Latin America quite often
Latin America is a smaller market sudden
changes in flows they change completely
the pricing dynamic of assets to give
you an idea up until 2017 VC and growth
invest in Latin America was about a
billion dollars per year. That number in
2021 only five years after that went up
to $16 billion. And if you have a fund
of that tight, you really cannot
increase the investable dollars by that
much without forcing too much on
valuations on which companies you're
investing. So that's rule number one. In
Latin America, you do have this higher
volatility of flows to the region. So
you need to be investing through
different cycles to make sure that you
capture different moments of the flow.
Now it's back at $4 billion which we
think is reasonable. Number two, in
Latin America only during the investment
period of a fund, you're going to have
two presidents in Brazil, maybe one
president and a half in Mexico. They
have a longer term. You're going to have
two presidents in the US. You're going
to have a lot happening globally. So you
want to make sure that you find a way of
deploying a little bit in each of those
years because when you're living through
a bubble or a depression is very hard to
tell, but what's not hard to tell is
that if you smooth out your flows and
you deploy a little bit during your
investment period, you're going to have
a more diversified fund. And if your TE
is proven right over time, there's a
very likelihood that it would likely
deliver very good returns. As an
investment strategy, we try to take a
deployment of around 20 to 25% per year.
So, we tend to take longer to invest,
but we think that that's the best way of
doing that. In Latin America, is there a
number of portfolio companies in the
current fund? Is that something you can
state specifically? Yes, we have 11
companies in the current fund. So, we've
been adding three per year during the
investment period. We should finish fund
one with about 15 companies out of which
we'll make some five core positions. If
I just stick with a dozen to round it up
in order to get a dozen portfolio
companies into your portfolio, due
diligence is critically critically
important. And transparency when you're
dealing with a startup is always
difficult or assumptions you need to
make. How is due diligence different in
a market like Brazil than it might be in
North America? And it might even be
better because we've seen situations
where you assume somebody else has done
the homework because your co-investor is
a big name but you have to probably do a
lot of this musling yourself. So could
you tell us a little bit about the due
diligence process for portfolio
companies that either make it in or get
rejected? We have an advantage in the
space that we invest. So we're mostly
investing in companies that were founded
less than 10 years ago. And in Latin
America, that's an advantage because
older companies that tend to have a lot
of contingencies, tax contingencies,
labor contingencies, which newer
companies do not have. And if they're
doing any practice that could generate
those contingencies, you have time to
address them before they become too big.
So that's a huge advantage of the
category that we have in LAM. Another
advantage even compared to legacy
companies in the region and some other
companies in this space of technology
and other emerging markets. I cannot
think of any major governance or fraud
issue of investing lat. So of course
there was a lot of mismanagement issues.
Companies that went belly up because
they had poor execution. But in this
space gen has been a new generation of
founders that have gone to good schools.
that want to build good companies, want
to do the right things. It was very rare
and again I cannot think of any in our
universe of companies and also other
funds that has had any major governance
issues. What we do have is to spend a
lot of time understanding how the
numbers are and a lot of these early
stage companies do not have the best
accounting. So we do take our time
generally after we sign internships. We
bring the big four accounting firm to go
through the numbers give us a good sense
of economics. Generally what we're
spending time on is not on historical
financials. We're spending time on
current economics. So the product that
the company is selling makes sense and
they're having growth traction. So if
the economics of that marginal product
or service that they are selling work
and we can understand consumer traction
through pipeline conversion that's why
we invest. So it is easier as well from
that perspective because I'm not
necessarily focused on confirming the
last financial statements exactly that
we need to understand that was
approximately right but what we need to
understand is that going forward the
company is likely to do what we think uh
they can do and I don't know if you've
had any exits yet but if you haven't
you're probably anticipating them. I'm
curious to know what the exit market's
like and maybe this affforementioned 300
billion coming out of some of the big
names in the US perhaps some of them are
strategic buyers but is the normal
outlet to go and get listed on say the
Brazilian stock exchange I'll say there
are a few alternatives we have had a few
exits one of the exits that we had we
just sold to our international fund we
sold out early but we wanted to show
that good returns were possible during
this cycle in latens was an investment
that we sold at about 2x our investment
price in a holding period of circle a
year and a half for the overall amount.
So it was a very good investment. But
there are three alternatives in Latin
America. I'll say one, we have very
active M&A market in Brazil. There are
over 200 M&A transactions per year of
reasonable size. So it's very active.
It's a market that's welcoming on
foreign capital. So an Indian company
can buy in Brazil, European company can
buy in Brazil, Chinese American company.
At some point Boeing was thinking of
buying the Brazilian aerospace company
called Inbra. I don't think that there
is any other market that you let a
foreign company buy your main airplane
producer. Generally regulations they're
very open to foreign investors in the
re. So that's the main alternative. The
second alternative which for a fun of us
may make sense from time to time selling
to other funds. So we're reaching
halfway for that investment start
evaluating that. I'll say the third
alternative which for us is less of of
something we consider when we make an
investments as an exit for IPOs and
there are two alternatives for the large
companies they can always list this in
the US they trade with significant
liquidity so I'm in the board of a
company called inter that's a US listed
digital bank new bank is a company
that's listed in the US mar in the US
and there are quite a few from this past
wave in 2021 that listed in the US but
that's generally for companies that have
market cap of $2 billion and higher. And
you do have an alternative of leasing
domestically. Over the last two years to
keep the inflation at bay, the
government has increased interest rates
in Brazil. So right now it's at over 14%
per year. So huge. Inflation's at around
four. So it's under control. With
interest rates that high, the IPO market
has been somewhat close for the last
three years. I don't think it's too
different than the US. In the US last
year, there were only five IPOs in
technology, which given the US market
size, that's probably nothing. I think
we need to see a cycle of lower interest
rates for that market to resume. And
then another important aspect to the
ecosystem is talent. And if these are
young companies, they probably only have
a handful of employees and as they grow,
they need more tech enabled employees.
What is the talent pool like in a market
like Brazil just to focus on that one
region country? In the last decade,
there was no startup talent in Brazil,
Max or anywhere in Latin America. And we
got very fortunate because there was a
wave of entrepreneurs from the US, from
Germany, from other global markets that
moved to Brazil and they started some of
the companies that became very
successful. And with that wave, even
David Valis who found a new bank only 11
years ago. He was an investor at Sequoia
had studied at Stanford and then he
brought that expertise back to Brazil
and helped found a company of that size.
bank is worth more than $50 billion
today. That wave brought that expertise.
I think the thing that we start seeing
down there is that people before they
wanted to get a craft not only graduate
into something. So a lot of Brazilians
they went to be lawyers. The funny fact
is that in Brazil you have more lawyers
per capita than anywhere else in the
world. Two times more than what you get
in England for example. And that's in a
country where you don't have a lot of
people going to graduate school. But
with this new thing of startups making
money, entrepreneurs being successful,
it attracted a new crowd and not only
had this expertise, these people have
learned from this first wave of
startups. But you have all these
graduates now they want to work in that.
So the number of Stan graduates in
Brazil increased by 80% in 10 years. And
now we have a number that's larger than
the number of Germany or France. So now
you have a new pool of talent. Of
course, a young pool of talent. There's
a pool of talent that's being developed,
but there is a eagerness to be part of
this ecosystem. And as more of this
talent emerges and the success stories
come out and successful exits, often
times that does not go unnoticed by some
of the biggest VCs in North America. And
all of a sudden, a market where you had
the corner, you look left and right and
up the elevator bank and all of a sudden
you're seeing the Andre and Horowitzes
and others come in. I guess there's
maybe positives to it because it shows
that that market's arrived. I think if
you look to add basis points, more
competition means less alpha for one
specific manager. So where is Brazil or
Latam in that maturity process? And how
do you think about competition as some
of your success stories get out as they
rightfully should? So we've seen that
from time to time, but whenever there
was a moment of liquidity, a lot of
international investors would flux to
the region and that will cause price
distortions. It's very important to be
careful during those days. So back in
2021, there were over 75 international
investors participating in transactions
of above $50 million into this
technology companies. That number has
come down to less than 13 last year. So
it has significantly reduced. I think
there's still interest in the region but
now at a much more measured pace. It is
true though during high liquidity times
when there is too much capital maybe the
best thing just to wait on the sidelines
and see how the market clears or invest
slowly. It's very difficult to tell when
you're going through that. We stick to
our framework of investing a certain
amount per year and maybe you'll get
some money out during some of those
years and that's fine but then at least
we have a we move out the cycle.
Maturity is maybe not the right word
with AI, but when are we going to reach
a level where the opportunity and
landscape becomes much more clear and
we're more into that next phase of
investing, which maybe that goes beyond
VC, but there's always going to be that
next innovation where it's sort of the
space of VC. So, where are we in this
maturity cycle of AI? I think we're
going through the very beginning of what
can be something very meaningful. I
think this applies to most of our
economies. Definitely applies to Max or
Brazil. But take Brazil as an example.
Is a very bureaucratic country is a
country that has low productivity. Is a
country has a lot of government related
processes that you need to go through.
And then when you apply AI tools to that
now you enable a significant part of the
population to go through those
processes. A population that maybe do
not attend school in a way that made
them affected throughout the
bureaucracy. But now with AI they can
manage through some of that. Now you can
address a lot of the issues in paying
taxes in Brazil which are very Byzantine
and it takes up a lot of time. So we put
that into an AI system. You have an
answer right away. dealing with legal
claims which can be a hassle for large
companies over there something that can
be done through AI there's a sequoia
back complaint now called enter that's
basically digitalizing that process and
applying AI to all of that so the
advantage that despite being a
bureaucratic place it's very digitalized
99% of the court cases in Brazil
digitalized all the documentation
everything is digitalized so when you
apply AI probably can cut through a lot
that bureaucracy so I'm very excited for
what it could
And maybe we could take a few minutes
before I let you go to talk about the
impact of this pace of change and what
it means visav privacy and regulation.
And I think when you have change moving
at this pace, it's very hard to keep
things like regulation and privacy and
pace and they settle down over longer
periods of time. And it may or may not
be a company you're involved in. If it
is, you can just wave me off. But I've
used Clear View AI as an example. I
don't know if you know much about them,
but it was started several years ago in
the US. And as the thesis goes, they
scraped images of you and I and Pauline
and everybody else from Facebook, from
LinkedIn, from Instagram without our
approval. And I think it was required,
but they went ahead and did it anyway.
And then they go out and they sell it to
law enforcement agencies, etc. And
certainly in the US, there's been a lot
of litigation. And I think there were 20
some odd state attorney generals that
just brought a class action lawsuit
against them which is moving close to
settlement. But the settlement in my
mind is ridiculous in that they're
giving equity ownership and
clear if you want to opt out you have to
specifically go and opt out. So it's
more like well here's some hush money
and we move ahead. So you can comment on
that or not but I think the broader
question is we still have not reached a
cruising altitude about what is really
fair around privacy what is really fair
about expectations of the end investor
and maybe this next generation I've got
five kids and their views on privacy are
very very different than mine and I
don't want anybody to know my social
security number my date of birth a
telephone number and they probably have
all of that on their profile on Tik Tok.
as an example. So I think we still have
to be careful. But what are your views
on this at least in my view a gap
between how quickly the industry is
going and have we done a good enough job
of looking at the ethical backbone of
what we're taking on because it is
moving at warp speed. For good or for
bad most of that framework will not be
developed in our countries in Latan. So
I think we end up using what's going to
be developed elsewhere. I think
regulation in the regions is a few steps
behind and again that's good and that's
bad because without regulation you can
move very fast and you can implement
things very fast and learn from that.
It's not a surprise that Uber and all
these other companies that had to attack
some aspects of regulation in the past
are so big in the region when there was
a need and that there is this sense of
being pragmatic as well in the region of
allowing this technology to address it
local needs. I'll give you an example.
were looking at a company the other day
that they use a face scan to basically
allow you into stage to watch soccer
which in Brazil of course is a huge
thing by using that face match when you
buy your ticket your face and basically
at the entrance you only have face match
it's super cool the way it works and it
works extremely well in one of the last
games they arrested five people but they
had been looking for them for a while
just because of that face match because
everything's digitalized probably that
was a good thing and I'm sure there was
a lot of regulation that was stopping
that from happening or probably there
was just some consent but when people
bought the tickets they just read it or
did not read it and just accepted it but
it's very interesting how that's
happening at a fast pace and I think it
will address some of the big issues that
we have down there including crime but
the answer to your question is that I
don't think that there's been a lot of
thought in local regulations in the talk
of course we have discussions we have
some frameworks but not a lot of thought
as we've been having elsewhere maybe at
the risk of this whole conversation me
sounding naive I will say to your point
just now, Andrea, that if I come into
the US from a foreign country, I don't
even have to show my passport anymore
because my face is known to TSA and
whoever else. So to think it's not out,
they're being captured time and time
again. And I think it was interesting. I
think the New York Mets baseball team
had something similar where I think you
got a discount if you went to the facial
recognition ticket purchase. And I think
people were happy to get the discount,
not realizing that they basically sold a
portion of their privacy for that. And
whether or not they got compensated for
it well enough. Time will tell. And it's
going to be interesting. This 23 and me,
this DNA website just gone bankrupt. And
now in bankruptcy is going to be a lot
of people's underlying DNA for sale.
We're not going to solve for that, but I
think you're right. is always going to
lag. But I think it puts a premium on us
as professionals to at least try to draw
a line to say, well, you know what, this
has gone a little bit too far. Because
ultimately, the regulators do have the
benefit of operating with 2020 hindsight
and 2025 decisions are going to be
looked at through a 2028, 2030 lens. And
you better get it right as opposed to
just trying to ek out every last basis
point possible. The other day I was
looking for a tool for my garden. We
were looking at that online. I was
looking at that on my computer. Then the
next day your Instagram is just showing
tools for gardens. I was like, "Oh my
gosh." I have the same thing with
Airbnb, etc. And it's one thing for a
garden tool or a place I want to rent.
But when somebody understands my
behavioral tendencies around not liking
bare markets and all of a sudden some
product pops up, it's playing into my
worst tendencies. And is that really
part of a thoughtful asset allocation
mix that has an impact on my retirement?
Less so. I think these tools could be
very very valuable but in the wrong
hands but the wrong motivation maybe
less. So I fully agree. I think they
maximize some of our biases and they use
them to in a way it's against us. You
know selling what's going buying what's
going up in a way creates this FOMO for
everything. So yeah, for investing is
particularly dangerous. I fully agree
with you. Before I let you go, an
infomercial for your part of the world.
I've been fortunate to go to Brazil a
couple times, Apollo, and I was in Epana
Beach for a conference. Believe it or
not, it was a conference. And then I was
in Colombia and Peru. And it is a bit of
an eyeopener in terms of I spent a lot
of time with students and we talked
about that and the demographics. And it
seems like in some countries, and this
might be Chile, that the opportunity set
for retirees sounded a lot like what I
saw in Australia, you've got the super
funds where there's a big fund doing the
manager selection, the due diligence,
and the investing on my behalf. I don't
know if that exists in Brazil or not,
but I think it's a very interesting,
very populous market, and I think you
ignore it at your own peril. I fully
agree with you. And even for other
managers, I think at some point we'll
have a lot more local savings. So you
see what's happening in different
countries. They created a pension system
in Max was privately managed, but the
contributions are mandatory. That system
today has $370 billion and is one of the
system of the highest inflows per year.
So all the large firms that are down in
Mexico trying to get commitments to
their funds from Carlile to all these
other large global firms. They have a
similar system in Chile. In Brazil, they
created a scheme, but it's not mandatory
contributions. It's voluntary. You have
tax advantage in doing that. And that
system is growing at 12% per year.
Today, it's already at $330 billion. Not
being mandatory is not the size of the
maximum system, but it's growing very
quickly. So, historically, we always
have had this issue of lack of local
savings, and only one country, Chile,
had addressed that back in the day, and
now that's growing throughout the
region. So I think it can be a great
great thing for the long term. When
Chile was the only country that had that
and the pension funds were forced to
invest in Chile, everything traded at 25
times PE when everything else in the
region trade at eight. Having the local
capital available can have a significant
impact on exod dynamics. I think for
assets in Brazil in Mexico if you invest
a long time horizon. So that's one thing
that excites me a lot having this local
pool of savings being formed. a great
observation and maybe a great place to
leave it. I do know true of many
investors, we have a home country bias.
It's what we know, what we're
comfortable with. And oftentimes,
particularly if your bias is the United
States, the alpha opportunity might be
in less efficient markets where you may
be taking some agency and country risk,
but if you do your homework or find the
right partner, you can minimize that and
your upside toward the alpha component
might be even greater still. So, I do
appreciate all that you do, Andre. And I
did see this Vulpi day. Maybe we could
close with that because it seemed to be
very open, transparent, and I think open
to the public. I saw one YouTube, maybe
it was 2023, so I don't know what the
current state of play is vote day, but
you seem to share information quite
freely, which I think helps all market
participants. We do a vote day. We try
to do it every year. We invest probably
invite someone that's very meaningful to
the local ecosystem. I'll probably do
one this year and then we break that
into a session that's only for our LPS.
In that session, we do share a lot of
information about the market, how
companies are evolving, the type of
growth traction that we're seeing for
some of these technologies solutions
checking. I think they're extremely
sophisticated. But just looking at our
portfolio, we have several cases five
cases portfolio of 11 that you have
companies evolving from $1 million in
revenue to 50 in a span of three years.
So we explain the trends that are
propelling those companies forward. I
spend a lot of time on how they're
building teams or they're finding talent
and we put that for our ops but then we
invite someone that's important for the
ecosystem to talk to the public and we
don't have a date for these years yet.
Most likely it will be in the second
half but it would be great to have this
audience joining us as well. Okay. Well,
I'll watch for it. I know you're working
on a blog post that has some correlation
to this discussion. And I think the two
of them will come out about the same
time. So I look forward to reading and
learning more about that as well. But I
appreciate you educating myself and
listeners to Andre and wish you and your
partners continued success. Bill, it was
great to be here. Thank you so much for
this opportunity and looking forward to
keeping this channel up. Thank you,
Andre. Thank you for listening to
Educational Alpha. I'm your host, Bill
Kelly. Learn more about the KA
Association and subscribe to the show at
kaya.org. That's
caia.org. See you next time.
