Suzanne, it feels like growth equity has
gone through a few cycles of evolution
and growth, and now we're in this period
where it's becoming an increasingly
popular strategy in the private equity
ecosystem. Yet, there's so much
confusion around its definition. So,
maybe it's time for a full rebrand.
>> I think growth equity does need a
rebrand after 2021 because it's been a
unusually changeable period for the
growth equity market, which didn't just
start to emerge in 2019 2020. Growth
equity has been around for a very long
time. We've been doing it for 45 years.
But the growth equity market got
confused with a number of other things
during that zer period at the end of the
2010s. The things that it got confused
with first was late stage venture
capital where you could excuse a bigger
check or bigger valuation by calling it
growth equity is one thing it was
confused with and the other was preIPO
momentum investing with a very short
duration and often quite a passive
approach to investing. But the long-term
things that growth equity are are
different [music] than that.
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, we say goodbye to tired market
takes and superficial [music]
sound bites. Because here, instead of
skimming the surface, we dive into the
heart of capital allocation, [music]
striking the perfect balance and
exposing the subtleties that reveal the
topic's true essence. Prepare to have
your perspectives [music] challenged as
we open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. [music]
We've enlisted the wisdom of visionary
leaders in the industry. And just like a
meticulously [music]
crafted wine, we'll allow their insights
to breathe, unfurling their [music]
hidden depths and transforming our
understanding.
This is season 3, episode 2, Growth
Equity Investing. I'm John Bowman.
>> And I'm Aaron Philbeck.
>> We are your hosts. Well, for the third
year in a row, our title sponsor is once
again our friends over at Alternatives
by Franklin Templeton. They've been a
constant that we're so thankful for in
supporting our efforts to bring
compelling educational content to life
here at Kaya. FT is over 40 years of alt
investing, over 260 billion of asset
center management. And their specialist
investment managers have expertise
across six different asset classes, real
estate, private equity, private credit,
hedge strategies, venture capital, and
digital assets. And of course, all of
them operate with the client first
mentality that has always defined
Franklin Templeton to help prioritize
investment outcomes. So, thanks as
always, Alternatives by Franklin
Templeton. All right, Aaron. All right,
Decanters, I want you to imagine a
scenario where you're running a company
and you're absolutely killing it.
Customer traction is strong, revenue
flowing, you're just printing margins,
product is hot, perhaps already even a
category killer. But while your P&L is
healthy and your balance sheet offers
plenty of working capital to ensure a
going concern, if not more, you're stuck
at a certain altitude from a size
perspective and you've got an existing
product and a healthy but limited reach.
So, how do you break out of that? Where
do you find the capital for this next
stage of growth? To open new offices,
maybe to launch new products, or even to
enter new markets? You're probably too
big and mature for venture capital and
you're not ready to sell the whole
business to a strategic partner and
you're probably way too entrepreneurial
for a controlling interest from a PE
buyout shop. And further, maybe you feel
strongly that you don't want to saddle
the business with the weighty burden of
debt capital. So you operate in this
whole scenario in a different mold with
a different set of needs and demands. So
consider your dilemma fully activated
here. Well, that's when growth equity
enters the conversation. Growth equity
is high octane fuel for an already
thriving organization. It occupies this
sweet spot, as we'll talk about, that
retains autonomy and control for the
founder and yet offers access to money,
expertise, and council to activate step
function scaling. At least that's the
goal. And it benefits investors with
much more downside protection than VC,
but more return upside and perhaps less
stigma than buyout. So today, our
adventure will explore the rise of this
hybrid mashup, the middle child
equivalent, the asset class that gets
the fewest headlines that is largely
misunderstood, often mislabeled, but
arguably is now the hottest segment in
the PE universe stratum. So, we've got a
lot to cover on this journey, Aaron.
We're going to start with the history as
we traditionally do here on Capital
Decanted, and we're going to do that a
little bit differently than normal, as
you'll see. I'm going to go into a few
narratives that embody how this asset
class has evolved and you could say
elbowed its way into legitimacy and then
eventually stardom. We'll also spend
some important time differentiating
growth from the other forms of private
equity VC buyout and its very unique
attributes plus how the distinct
playbook typically creates value. On the
investment side, we're going to size the
market. We'll check the fundraising
barometer. We'll discuss risks, return
profile, and of course, the importance
of manager selection, and finally, we'll
riff a bit on considerations for
portfolio fit. So, this is a heavy a
busy, but an exciting blueprint for us
today. And of course, helping us along
the way, you'll be hearing from two
growth equity experts and authorities.
Suzanne Gorin will join us from General
Atlantic, one of the true avengers of
today's growth equity firms, and they
manage over 100 billion dollars today.
Suzanne is the head of capital solutions
for growth equity. Fittingly, and a
quick programming note, you might
remember that we had Suzanne's colleague
Martine Escobari, GA's co-president on
last season for our episode on AI. So,
be sure to check that out. We'll also
have the pleasure of Steve McCart's
wisdom. Steve is the co-CEO of Makita
Investment Group, of course, the
independent advisory and consulting
firm. So, that is our plan. Aaron,
before we jump into history, I'd be
curious, what did you think of before
this research when you heard the phrase
growth equity?
>> So, this is such a tough exercise, John,
as a lot of these different topics are.
And when you look on the internet or you
try to do any kind of research on
defining what growth equity is, every
single organization defines this very
differently. So many of the early stuff
that I found was really focused on
latest stage venture and try to compare
it to the venture capital space. I won't
steal some of the thoughts that we heard
from Steve, but coming at it from a
different perspective, maybe closer to
buyout is where growth equity really
sits today. So, I would say that the
definition is one of the most
challenging things and I'm hoping that
throughout today's episode we'll be able
to put a little bit more clarity and
differentiation because I still think
the industry gets this. I don't know if
it's wrong, it's just very confusing.
>> Yeah, I mean I would cosign that
completely. I think that's the problem
with this space and why we felt a
necessity even though we've spent some
time a couple different times on private
equity generally on this show
historically is that in typical
investment jargon fashion we often talk
around and through each other with
phraseology that means different things
or at least brings different certain
anecdotes or emphases to mind that we
don't intend. So, as is often the case
here at Capital Canon, we need to do
some definitional excavation, you might
say. With growth equity, are we talking
about stage or age of the company? Well,
partly. Are we talking about the size of
the company, whether it's revenue or
IBITA or maybe size of the check, maybe?
Are we talking about percentage of
control from the GP? Well, perhaps a
little bit. Are we talking about the GP
playbook, the proportion of operational
improvement versus just financial
engineering? Well, I think the answer is
all of those things a bit. And that's
the problem. As growth equity has
evolved, variations of GPS and their LP
clients and even the media all construct
their own Frankenstein of growth equity
using different appendages of lifestyle,
check size, company maturity, governance
model, operational interventions. So,
we're going to try to parse through
those elements later in the episode to
make sure we give you and us a proper
rubric to think about the riskreward
profile and portfolio fit for this
rising asset class because I think
you're absolutely right and I wanted to
open with this. The definitional problem
is what I think lingers and provides a
real storm cloud over even having a
debate about the asset class. But we
can't start there. As I just said, we're
going to get there. We need to rewind
about six decades first to our history
segment. So to help us understand the
history of growth equity investing, I
mentioned a moment ago, we'll be taking
a tour of three vignettes, three
narratives of the early movers in growth
equity. I think this will be an
interesting unique way to grasp the
development here through some avatars,
you might say, if you will. So today's
story and our first vignette begins in
1968 in Boston with Peter Brookke. At
the time he was a 39-year-old head of
Tucker Anony's corporate finance and
venture capital group. Peter had cut his
teeth previously in venture capital
across both equity and debt at Bessemer
and at First Boston. And by the way,
Erin, did you ever come in contact with
Tucker Anthony?
>> I have not. No.
>> Okay. When I first came up in the
business, it was a boutique investment
and research bank. I mentioned on this
show previously that part of my first
assignment as an analyst in the mid 90s
was tech and telecom coverage and Tucker
Anthony was I thought the absolute best
in my view at the time. Two gentlemen,
Steven Dings, Keith Burrhauser. These
are two friends and both KA members I
should say covered me. So shout out if
you're listening to Stephen and Keith.
Thankful for you both. You taught me a
ton very early in my career. So back to
Peter Brookke 68. Tucker Anthony helped
fund Peter to create TA Associates as an
affiliate of Tucker Anthony. Now, for
the most loyal of Decanters out there,
you might remember that we often cite
the coaching tree or diaspora effect of
Drexel Burnham Lambert and Mike Milin on
the credit side for originating and
birthing countless private capital firms
and professionals. Well, TA Associates
is kind of the equivalent of that. It's
another top of the family tree type of
firm that you can trace many many
histories back to those early days in
Boston. So Peter's first hire would be
newly minted MBA Kevin Landry who would
go on to run the firm after Peter
departed to start a couple other private
equity firms in 1990. Now the first two
decades to be fair of TA Associates
would largely still consist of early
stage venture investments. Its first
investment, interestingly, would come in
1972 for Eastern Mountain Sports, the
outdoor retailer. But by the late7s,
about a decade in, TA would migrate
almost exclusively to its bread and
butter that it's even known for today,
software and biotech, with early
investments in biogen, computer
associates, immunogen, digital research,
morand just to name a few. By the way, I
should also mention here that the hire
that really put TA on the map in
software was a woman named Jackie Morby.
Now, if you don't recognize that name,
Jackie joined in 1978 at 40 years old
with no finance experience, but has
become one of the true legends of
private technology investing, of growth
investing. Perhaps obviously, Jackie was
also one of the very first, if not the
first woman ever, at a private equity
firm. So, she is a true pioneer. And one
of Jackie's only interviews, at least
that I could tell, she's a fairly
private person, is on the podcast show,
The Joys of Compounding. So, strong
commend for all of you to listen to
that. It is a wonderful lesson on grit
and innovation as well as the history of
TA associates by the way. So again
recommend that it is inspirational. So
that same year that Jackie joined 1978
TA would formally separate from Tucker
Anthony. This is again a decade after
Peter Brookke founded it would become a
partnership owned by its leadership by
its MDs. They would grow substantially
from there. In 1980 in fact they would
be the largest independent VC firm in
the rankings. But as the 80s progressed,
largely under Landre's leadership, they
began moving investments into more
mature later stage high growth companies
with actual revenue growth and
profitability track record. They begun
seeing their core competency as
partnering with businesses to help them
scale and grow versus venture capital,
which of course is aimed to provide
capital for them to get started with
this urgency to exit and to make a nice
multiple on invested cash. So, in fact,
by the mid80s, even the VC label was
gone off of TA Associates website and
its marketing collateral, and they would
begin referring to themselves as simply
private equity. In 1980, a couple years
later, another enterprising investor,
Chuck Feny, the founder of the Duty-Free
Shopping Guide. If you ever done any
transatlantic travel, you will know this
well. Chuck would establish a new
investment firm that he called General
Atlantic. And that is in fact our second
vignette. So, while GA wasn't the first
growth equity firm, that was TA, as we
just explained, it's arguably the most
wellknown now. As we said, one of our
guests, Suzanne, will be talking to us a
little bit later. And that's because its
founding vision from Chuck rested in
values and philosophy that came to
define growth equity verse maybe some
others that we'll see that seem to
migrate there for market opportunity
purposes. What do I mean by that? So,
let me just quote right from GA's
website here. Quote, "As Chuck's
business gained momentum, that's his
duty-free business, so did his interest
in investing in new ideas, people, and
philanthropic endeavors. In the spring
of 1980, as we said, the founding team
at General Atlantic would help
entrepreneurs build great companies as a
means of magnifying Chuck's ability to
contribute to the societal causes that
propel global progress. The success
would fuel the impact of Atlantic
Philanthropies, Chuck's Foundation, that
made big bets for a better world. Chuck
gave the founding team the latitude to
think outside of the box, follow their
instincts, and take an untraditional
approach to what was an unprecedented
investment mandate. The team saw an
opportunity to build a new kind of firm
focused on patient capital and
partnership with purpose, laying the
foundations for what the world would
know later as growth equity strategy."
End quote. So, as you could pick up
there, Chuck was all about partnering
over the long term to supercharge great
companies to make a lasting and
multi-generational impact. his
experience as he started in globalizing
duty-free shopping from its start which
was a liquor business in Hong Kong to
cater to returning US military
servicemen in Asia in the ' 50s to the
largest travel retailer in the world was
the same model he embedded in the DNA of
General Atlantic and the way they
thought about portfolio companies
serving partners that shared their sense
of purpose with capital and advice to
create durable long-term business models
that could navigate international
expansion leadership team development
operation scale. So our last vignette of
the three of those original 4erunners is
Summit Partners. Summit Partners was
founded few years later 1984 by Rose
Stamps and Steven Woodsome who
previously worked together at guessware.
Yes, TA Associates. The early angle for
Summit, the reason I chose this one to
round out our three was to specialize in
backing bootstrap companies. So
bootstrapping typically refers to
businesses that had grown up without any
outside funding. And Summit helped these
companies professionalize, upgrade their
systems, prepare for the next stage of
growth. And what made Summit unique and
ultimately left a lasting imprint on how
growth equity would mature was their
respect for founders. They didn't push
for control. They didn't demand board
seats. They offered support, not
interference. And today, that mantra
still flashes across their culture at
Summit and the approach of growth equity
generally. So Summit describes
themselves today on their site as the
following. quote, "As a minority or
majority shareholder, whether we work
together to accelerate organic growth or
support the creation of an
acquisition-driven platform, we seek to
structure investments in a manner we
believe best supports the goals of each
portfolio company. Above all, our focus
is on growth of the companies we back
and the executives who lead them." End
quote. So, I'm not suggesting these
three vignettes exhaust the history and
activity in those early days, but I
think they help us begin to shape a
mental model for investing. And while
buyout firms were focused on control and
leverage, and VC firms were chasing
moonshots, the occasional home run,
growth equity firms were intent and are
intent on investing in what's already
working and to help make them even
better. It's not so much about
reinventing the wheel, but trying to
make that wheel spin a bit faster. So,
as you might imagine, this approach
appealed to a specific kind of founder,
someone who had built a successful
business, wanted to take it to the next
level, but didn't want to lose control
or dilute their vision along the way.
And it also appealed to a specific kind
of investor, someone who wanted strong
returns, but wasn't comfortable with the
binary outcomes of venture or maybe the
debt heavy financial engineering risks
of buyout. And so, the seeds of a new
asset class had begun to sprout. This
was not a mashup of other forms of
private equity, but a brand new
philosophy requiring new tools, new
talent, and new sourcing mechanisms.
These businesses that they targeted
tended to have cleaner capitalization
tables, stronger unit economics,
stronger capital efficiency. And that
capital-like nature did tend to migrate
suitors to businesses like software,
health services, and tech enabled
capabilities. And Aaron will talk more
about that in a few minutes. But despite
this early start and spark, the LPs
didn't suddenly start carving out growth
equity allocations. And this modern
independent label remained largely
elusive even into the 2000s. And despite
what I've said about its unique
features, growth equity was still seen
as a bit of a hybrid. And hybrids, as we
all know, aren't easy to categorize in
strategic asset allocation shops and
governance models. It was still
relatively under the radar. Most
institutional investors still as a
result exclusively allocated capital to
traditional buyout funds or venture
capital in their PE book. And then of
course as we often tell the story 2008
came and we've reflected on this so many
times because it was a generational
inflection point and catalyst to every
subnarrative in capital markets and
suddenly risk tolerance collapsed.
Venture capital felt too speculative.
Buyouts with their heavy reliance on
debt felt too risky and maybe a bit
reputationally uncomfortable. Investors
wanted another option, a new form of
risk premia that combined the best of
both. Real companies, real revenue, and
real growth potential, but without the
volatility or at least without the level
of volatility or leverage. So growth
equity fit that bill perfectly. So post
GFC firms like Insight Partners, TCV,
Excel began raising larger funds for
later stage companies. These were often
their own portfolio companies they had
seated earlier and they were doubling
down on their winners as they would say
and even traditional buyout giants like
KKR, TPG, Carlilele moved downstream.
They move the other way to dedicated
growth platforms sometimes calling them
late stage venture as Aaron mentioned
earlier. So both buyout and VC were
migrating towards each other and
colliding in this new middle child
called growth equity and hence the
definitional mess that we still need to
unpack a little bit. By the mid- teens,
growth equity was no longer a niche. It
was a core allocation. Institutional
investors began carving out specific
buckets now for growth equity in their
portfolios. Consultants like our guest
Makita today started recommending it in
their strategic asset allocation as a
way to balance risk and return. And the
data backed it up as Aaron will expand
upon shortly. Growth equity funds were
delivering strong performance with lower
loss rates than DC and less volatility
than buyouts. So John, that's really
helpful to hear those three vignettes
and I think it'd be additive to hear
what Steve had to say as someone who was
on the ground as a lot of this was
happening. So let's listen to his
perspective on how growth equity evolved
into its own space than private equity.
I think what he says is a good parallel
to some of your vignettes. And as you'll
hear, I was surprised to hear the
direction of travel between buyout and
venture. [music]
Growth equity as a component of the
private equity landscape goes back many
many years but it has evolved over time.
Initially growth equity was
distinguished from traditional buyouts
by the fact that growth equity
investments generally involved taking
minority positions where the capital was
used for growth and expansion as opposed
to a buyout strategy where the capital
is used to buy out a existing investor
or founder of the business. and the
buyout manager owns and controls the
company. So growth equity with minority
positions, lack of full control, and
because the capital in those situations
tends to be used for expansionary growth
purposes, it tended to focus on
industries that were faster growing. As
time has evolved over the last couple of
decades, the growth equity sector has
evolved as well. From our vantage point,
the sector today is not exclusively, but
it's more focused on technology,
software, what we today see as the
fastest growing components of the
economy, where the fastest growing
businesses are. And it's also evolved to
be not in every case, but in more cases,
a bit of a stopping ground between
companies that are privately owned and
ultimately IPO in the public markets. in
the public markets themselves in the IPO
market are becoming more technology
focused too. So the industry has evolved
in that way. It still has a lot of the
characteristics it started with 20 plus
years ago but it's probably in the
aggregate today has moved a little
closer to resembling latestage venture
and a little less resembling traditional
buyout strategies. But it clearly
resides and always has resided between
those two extremes.
Well, I think Steve provides really
interesting framing there as well.
Aaron, I know we talked a little bit in
the opening question about the fact that
GPS compare growth to latest stage
venture, but Steve is actually saying
maybe it migrated or came out of the
buyout space, which could also work
given some of the overlapping
characteristics. All of this, of course,
just hearkens back to our definitional
challenge of where it sits and how it
compares to the other two. So Erin, I
think that gives a quick summary of the
first five decades, but I think it'd be
helpful for maybe you to jump in here
and give us a snapshot of where we are
today. How do you size this? Because I'm
ending this cliffhanger story with these
vignettes and we're kind of in the mid-
teens as far as chronology at this
point. So obviously there's a big
chapter still to come postco.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Five decades in 20
minutes. Well done, John. One of the
things that I think is interesting just
listening to you talk about growth
equity is the similarities and parallels
to what we've seen in private credit and
how private credit was kind of this
little subp part of private equity
strategy or a hedge fund strategy and
then all of a sudden blossomed into its
own subcomponent and its own industry
and asset class in its own right. And
we've seen a very similar type of
experience here in the growth equity
space as well. So maybe just to give you
a sense of size and who the players are
in growth equity, growth equity is right
around 1.7 trillion in assets under
management. So again, maybe some
parallels to private credit sitting
right around that size in terms of AUM
and it represents about 10% of the total
private equity fund industry as of 2025.
So venture capital and buyouts continue
to be the overwhelming proportion of AUM
in these strategies. But I think what's
interesting is that the growth of this
strategy really accelerated postcoid.
And when you look at these AUM charts
that show the gradual growth throughout
the 2010s all the way into the early
2020s, all of a sudden there's this huge
jump that happens right around 2020 and
2021. So, when I was interviewing
Suzanne for the episode, she actually
made a comment that like John just
walked through, there's been a ton of
different iterations of this strategy
and of this asset class. And 2021 is the
new inception of what we call growth
equity today. And a lot of this is
because of what happened postco with the
shift in monetary policy and interest
rates and reversing a lot of the trends
that existed throughout the 2010s. Part
of this is because growth equity has
little to no debt and it seemed to be
taking advantage of that reversal in
monetary policy where in the 2010s you
really weren't able to differentiate
what you saw in growth equity versus
light stage venture or other parts of
the venture capital ecosystem. Buyouts
were relatively free. It's a free cost
of money. You're not paying a lot to
borrow. And so all three of these
strategies didn't have a lot of
differentiation amongst them. However,
when you get into 2021 and interest
rates are going up and there's a lot of
reversals around inflation, all of a
sudden the differentiation becomes much
more clear. Buyouts are much more
expensive in order to conduct those
transactions. Venture capital also has
its own cost of capital associated with
it. So, growth equity really stands
alone relative to the other sub
strategies. Now, as for the other major
players in the growth equity space, I
ran a screen on Prequent that looks at
the top 20 fundraisers over the past 20
years. And John mentioned a couple of
those names. So, I'll spare you the
entire list, but the top five included
Insight Partners, TPG, GA, Summit
Partners, and Warberg Pinkis. Now,
what's interesting, and I'll talk about
this later, is that when you go further
down the list and further down the line,
you actually start to see some other
familiar names like Blackstone and Blue
Al and Goldman and even Andre. So, these
are names that have not historically
been associated with growth equity, but
as John just mentioned, there's been
this convergence between each of these
different strategies, and you've got
buyout managers coming into the growth
space, and you also have venture
capitalists that are taking advantage of
this as well. growth has also
accelerated in terms of fundraising over
the past 12 months. So, we're sitting
here close to the end of 2025. And it
was around this time last year that
Pitchbook published an article titled,
"Growth equity deals surpass LBOS's,
defying a historical trend." And the
thesis was relatively simple. When
interest rates go up, buyouts have a
high hurdle to hit due to higher
borrowing costs. But I also think this
has to do with another important
fundamental driver and that's when a
market is full of valuations that are
stretched and other investors are
looking for different sources of
innovation, it's really attractive to
look for what's working and companies
that are continuing to grow their
topline growth already. As Suzanne said
in some of the conversations we had,
many of these companies are growing
between 20 and 50% year-over-year. So,
it's a really easy way to hitch a ride
alongside rapid growers that have
somewhat of a proven track record. The
other phenomenon that's coming to the
market is the expansion into the wealth
management space. So, some of this
growth beyond some of the market
environments are who is actually
investing in growth equities. So many of
the names lower on that fundraising
list, the Blackstones, KKR, Blue Als,
Goldman Sachs, and so on are all part of
this wealth management expansion and
trying to build product for the
individual investor. So we may begin to
see some significant market segmentation
which could have some implications for
fundraising in growth equity in the
coming years.
>> Erin, let me stop you there just for a
minute because I thought Steve's
comments here were also fascinating. So
I want to jump back to him particularly
when we asked him about where he saw
growth equity markets next leg of
growth. His answer was all about wealth.
It's clearly the focus. So let's listen
in here. [music]
I would say maybe like the market as a
whole the biggest and [music] most
dynamic opportunity for growth equity is
in bringing the broader private market
to the individual investor marketplace.
And we're at the stage now where it's
just the beginning of product
development and financial intermediaries
adopting different vehicles to provide
exposure to the private markets. And in
this phase there's at least from our
perspective there isn't a there hasn't
been a lot of differentiation between
styles of strategies within private
markets. venture growth equity bias, the
stuff that in the institutional world we
take for granted because we've been
parsing this out and overthinking
diversification within private markets
for 30 years or more. But in the
individual investor marketplace, that's
just happening. And so as financial
intermediaries become more conversant in
private markets and create for their
clients portfolios that are diversified
across the private markets, there's an
opportunity for growth equity there to
distinguish itself from venture and
traditional buyouts and capture a piece
of the fundraising pie like growth
equity has in the institutional space
over the last several decades. [music]
So you may begin to see a market where
venture capital is very institutionally
focused whereas growth equity is much
more focused on wealth. So John, I think
one of the things that might be
interesting to talk about at this point
is we've talked about the past five
decades. We've talked about the past 5
to 10 years. Lot of evolution that's
happened there. As I mentioned, a couple
of environments especially postcoid that
have changed the dynamic. But how do we
actually define this? Again, this is the
big challenge and maybe the crux of the
episode. So in your research, I'd be
curious how we actually define growth
equity. Yeah, I think you had some
really helpful or provocative buzzwords
that are a nice segue to the
aphformentioned definitional work we
need to do. You talked about
convergence, you talked about migration
up and down the stream, you talked about
standing out, you talked about cost of
capital differences. So, I do think we
are ripe to draw some clear comparisons.
What actually distinguishes growth
equity from the other forms of private
equity? We've danced around this quite a
bit already. So, it is time for this
definitional excavation exercise I
mentioned in the intro. So, get your
vocabulary shovels and your figurative
pivot tables out. We need to make some
comparisons here. So, we typically talk
about three stratifications of private
equity. We've done that already today in
this episode. Buyyou growth, which is
today's topic, and venture capital. And
while each of those certainly share some
characteristics, most notably that
they're unlisted locked up capital.
These are private companies. They are
distinct in several ways. And I want to
spend some time specifically
inventorying the unique characteristics
of growth versus the other two main
categories. So as I teased in my opener,
we're going to tackle the taxonomy
exercise across five attributes very
quickly. First ownership and control,
second stage, third use of leverage,
fourth value creation, and fifth risk
profile. So just taking those in turn,
ownership and control. So in venture
capital typically this is a small
minority stake 10 to 20%. But that often
is accompanied by disproportional
influence from a governance perspective.
That's of course because the VC has most
of the power as the founders wholly
dependent on their capital to take it
from concept which is typically all it
is at that point to commercial reality.
VCs usually take board seats and include
protective provisions to safeguard their
investment. Now there are some
exceptions to this philosophy in places
like founders and but typically VCs tend
to be much bigger and more influential
voices in governance than anywhere along
this continuum. Buyouts are full
control. So the PE firm acquires a
majority or even 100% of the company.
Founders sometimes stay on, but the firm
calls the shots, meaning the GP calls
the shots and usually completely
restructures and recapitalizes the
company, polishing it up for sale. And
it can often even become contentious or
antagonistic to existing leadership and
employees as the primary goal is just
selling the company for a profit. So
contrast all that with growth equity.
Now like VC these are still minority
stakes sometimes a little bit higher 20
to 49% but the founders still stay in
charge. The investor is a partner and a
counselor not an authoritarian voice. So
John, before you go on to number two,
I'm reminded of some of Steve's thoughts
on this and especially how governance
and value ad intersect in a unique way
within growth equity. Let's listen to
him here.
>> I think again it'll vary and certainly
growth equity managers will emphasize
their value added as an owner above and
beyond the capital that they're
deploying. But I'd say in general,
you're right. It's hard to argue that
the influence a growth equity general
partner exerts on a business would be
greater than a buyout strategy that is
majority owner of the business and has
most the board seats or a venture
company that's provided all of the
financing for a business. So there's a
lot of overlap between that but I think
generally your thesis is correct.
[music]
So second stage of investment and this
is where this mid-market thing gets in
the way or phrase gets confusing in VC
of course by its very nature investing
in early stage startups is the name of
the game. It's often pre-revenue
sometimes even pre-product. This is
about betting on potential an idea a
market a founder in particular. Buyouts
are mature businesses with stable cash
flows. These companies are often
optimized for operational efficiency not
rapid growth. In many cases they are
postgrowth and firms GPS are just trying
to maximize the free cash flow harvest
in order again to get the multiple and
the valuation up for sale. Now in
contrast growth equity these target
companies are already profitable in most
cases or they're very close to it.
They've already found product market
fit. They've got a scalable model and
they're ready to expand, but they just
need more capital and expertise to
tackle that next phase. So, it's
sometimes, as I mentioned, used
interchangeably with the word mid-market
to my scrambled word problem I mentioned
earlier. But it isn't just about the
size of the check or the size of the
revenue or the size of Ebasa. Sometimes
that can be conflated. So, that is
stage. Third, leverage VC hardly ever
debt, exclusively equity. Buyouts is the
other extreme. Very heavy use of debt,
of course. Now, to be fair, as we
unpacked at length in our season 2
finale on private equity, the use of
leverage and financial wizardry has
massively evolved from the heydays of
the 80s and is not nearly, to be fair,
the main lever any longer. Nonetheless,
the classic LBO model involves borrowing
heavily to acquire the company and then
using cash flows hopefully to pay down
that debt. Now, growth equity like VC is
minimal or no debt. The focus is however
on organic growth, product and
geographic expansion, not financial
engineering. And they are certainly past
the startup phase as we said a moment
ago. Fourth, value creation. What is the
playbook? So, we're going to talk much
more about this in a moment, but in VC,
you're helping to build the foundation.
You're helping to design the product to
ensure that there's market fit. You're
helping to make early hires, gain
initial customer traction. In buyouts,
this is about optimization, cutting
costs, laying off workers, improving
margins, restructuring operations.
You're squeezing every last bit of
excess out of the system. And in growth
equity, the focus is on scaling. As we
just mentioned, new markets, new
products, better systems, stronger
teams. So, finally, our fifth risk
profile. In VC, very high risk. Most
startups fail mathematically, but the
winners can be massive, which is where
the math ends up working in a fund
structure. The rule of thumb of a
successful fund out of 10 is usually
that seven, eight are going to fail
completely. You're going to have a
couple singles, maybe a double in there,
and then hope for one home run.
Honestly, one out of 10 is a home run.
In fact, we'll get to in a moment, one
Meta, one Uber can make not just a fun
vintage, but a career literally for a
partner. And then buyouts, lower
business risks certainly, but higher
financial and reputational risk due to
all that leverage we've talked about. So
bankruptcies are rare in a pure sense,
but a lot of collateral damage can occur
through these big ugly
recapitalizations, layoffs, asset
stripping, selling off parts, loan
defaults, loan restructuring, etc.
Growth equity to contrast is somewhere
in the middle, moderate risk. As we
said, the company and the product is
proven. So it has cash flow. It's a
going concern but obviously anytime you
start to scale it does introduce
execution risk. So to summarize growth
equity in comparison to VC or buyout the
governance posture is minority control
and it's a spirit of partnership. The
stage is acceleration stage. So think
late teenage early adult part of the
cycle. The financing usually involves
minimal debt if no debt at all. The your
unique role is enabling scale and the
risk profile is moderate somewhere in
the middle. Those versed in the growth
stage take what's already working and
they make it work faster, smarter,
bigger. It's about accelerating an
already successful business. One of the
partners at GA had this handy way of
describing what they're looking for in a
growth equity investment. They called it
the 3 M. The market is in a large and
growing market that provides strong
tailwinds, which is all that matters in
BC. But second in this 3M structure, the
model. The company has a strong business
model that once at scale can provide
durable margins, defensibility for the
company. And third, management. Does it
have a visionary management team that
will drive and execute against ambitious
growth opportunities? So that's the
definitional work. So John, a lot of
your definitions align really well with
Suzanne's defining characteristics, too.
While you have a lot of good compare and
contrast going, she puts a bit more of a
specific portfolio company twist. What
makes growth equity growth equity? Let's
listen to her walk through these as
well. [music]
>> I think of growth equity as five things
if you look at the qualities that you
look for in an investment in growth
equity. And hopefully these five things
illuminate why it is different from
venture capital and from buyouts. The
first is that the company is high
growth. So you're talking about
companies that are growing 25 30 35% per
year often organically. The second is
that it's near profitability or at
profitability and we can talk more about
that but when you look back at the
growth rates one of the things I found
when I moved over to growth equity from
buyouts was that you have to look at
next 12 months not last 12 months to
really see what the company's going to
do. And that was a big adjustment for me
coming over. The third is that you're
looking at a strategy that has little
leverage or no leverage in many cases
and I think that's an underappreciated
quality about growth equity. The fourth
is around the sectors that growth equity
invests in. I think because there is
this often grouping of growth equity
with venture capital. It's assumed that
this is a very tech only strategy and
the way I think about growth equity is
it's tech enabled but it's not all tech.
tech enabled can reach a lot of
different sectors of the economy. And
the third is how you think about hits.
And then when we talk about risk and
return, this will really come up. But
growth equity is a strategy where there
should still be hits if you're doing the
strategy right. Not every company is a
hit. And we know that from venture
capital. That's no different in growth
equity. But you should have the
opportunity to invest in a company that
is capturing a secular trend in a way
that's very unusual and can return an
outsized return on that one investment.
So those are the five qualities. Growth
rate, profitability or near
profofitability, low leverage, multis
sector, and still having the opportunity
for hits. [music]
So now that we understand the defining
features of growth equity, I want to
spend a few minutes on the nuts and
bolts. Let's get to the playbook. The
blocking and tackling. I made reference
to this in the five I just talked
through on how they distinctively add
value and they provide a scaling
platform. And again, there's some
crossover with our PE episode last
season here, particularly as it relates
to operating value. So that could be a
nice refresher here, too. So I'd
encourage perhaps a listen back at that.
So what do growth equity firms actually
do to help their portfolio companies?
Maybe the most obvious area that I hope
popped in those earlier three vignettes
and some of the quotes that I've
mentioned is strategic expansion. Growth
equity capital is often used to enter
new markets. Whether that's expanding
from the US to Europe or Asia to the
Middle East or from one vertical into
another. It might fund a new product
line to new sales channel, a strategic
acquisition. And more generally, a
seasoned GP will have access to market
research and experience across borders
regarding social, demographic, consumer
trends, etc. And finally, it can also
help navigate complex regulatory and tax
implications of multinational operations
that would really be intimidating to a
fairly early stage company even if
they're doing well in one country.
Another area of opportunity besides
strategic enhancement would be
operational enhancement. So this is less
about pure cost cutting and operational
efficiency as you would see in buyout.
Growth equity firms often help companies
upgrade their internal systems and their
tech capabilities. Could be an ERP
platform, a CRM tool, data analytics,
cyber security. So this is more
sophistication versus efficiency on the
operational side. They could also help
recruit senior talent, CFO, CTO, CMO,
other key executives who can add much
deeper expertise and sophistication.
Third, go to market acceleration. So
this is about bisdev and sales in
particular. Marketing and sales are
critical levers for growth obviously and
growth equity firms help companies
refine their messaging, maybe optimize
their digital marketing spend, build
scalable sales teams. They might
introduce performance metrics or
customer segmentation strategies, new
pricing models that the portfolio
company hasn't thought about yet. So
this is especially important for
companies moving from founder-led sales
to a professionalized institutionalized
business development organization. And
then finally governance and
professionalization you might call a
catchall that I'll use. So as companies
grow obviously they need stronger
governance and in some cases they need
to insert the first vestigages at all of
governance growing out of that cult
personality that defines successful
startups. Growth equity firms help build
boards. They establish reporting
structures, implement compliance
frameworks, and they can even help
upskill the executive team with
leadership training, mentoring,
establishing KPIs, succession planning,
etc. So, Erin, you've done a ton of
work, having listened to me just a
moment ago and researched this as well.
I'd love to hear from you on the marks
of what makes a good growth equity GP
considering this and maybe even a growth
equity investment, meaning at the
portfolio company level. And then maybe
now is also a good time given the
definition and clarity work I tried to
do to describe how LPs are thinking
about fitting this asset class into a
diversified portfolio.
>> Yeah, absolutely. First of all, I mean
the value ad in the playbook is really
tough to measure. I was listening to you
walk through some of those levers that
these GPS can pull. It's similar in some
ways to what we talked about in some of
our previous episodes about the value ad
component. So, you might be sitting
there listening to John talk about these
five different levers and say, "Well,
that's great, but is that unique to
growth equity or is that just a buyout
type of strategy or not?" So, I've got a
couple of questions that I think are
worth asking as you evaluate both
portfolio companies or even more
importantly underwrite a GP who is
claiming to be growth equity. On the
portfolio company side, one of the
biggest challenges here is that again
many of the target companies are already
performing well. So they're not even
looking for or may not even be in need
of that capital. The capital might
provide some expansion, but they're
pretty well doing this on their own. So
in other words, you're convincing the
company to take your investment in
exchange for some kind of expansion into
a new geography or as John said,
professionalizing the organization. The
second challenge here is that growth
equity is becoming popular. So back to
my earlier point, you now have PE
managers on both sides, both on the
buyout side and the venture side, who
are adopting some of that growth equity
language, if you will, but aren't
actually truly doing growth equity. So a
couple questions maybe to think about.
First, is this company or this business
truly being bootstrapped and being
lightly funded, or is this just another
expansion of prior private equity
investment, perhaps venture capital
backed, that has led to this point?
There's a clear difference in the
definition of growth equity versus just
expansion capital or latestage venture.
Second is does it actually have a proven
business model with real customers or
are we still in that early stage? Again,
latestage venture versus growth equity
is where the difference really comes
into play. Third is is the business
growing in a capital efficient way or
will it require substantial funding in
order to maintain its growth? And that
to me is the difference between buyout
versus what you see in growth. If you
need a lot of capital, which might lead
to a complete control of the
organization, then it's a buyout
transaction, not necessarily a growth
equity transaction. Fourth, if the
reinvestment in growth and some of the
initiatives were shut off, would the
business still be profitable or would it
start to struggle? And this is another
buyout versus growth type of question.
If the reinvestment and the operations
are shut off and it's not profitable
relatively quickly, well, you're looking
probably more at a bot transaction
versus a growth equity opportunity,
which should be growing quickly and
should be doing fine on its own. And
then of course, is the GP, if you're an
LP, is the GP taking a minority stake
with limited or no leverage? And that
one is relatively self-explanatory. So
again, depending on the answers to some
of these questions, you may or may not
have a true growth equity strategy and
may have something that reflects more
latestage venture or some kind of
alternative flavor buyout.
>> I think those questions are such great
tools to help us think through how to
differentiate some of the three and also
I think differentiate the playbook
elements between other styles of private
equity, particularly if you're sitting
in the LP seat. And this is where I
think bringing Suzanne back in would be
really great because she has the
perspective of both seats. She's been
both an allocator and a GP. So, let's
listen in here.
>> I [music] think there are some unique
considerations and they explain why some
LPs don't include growth equity as a
defined allocation within their
portfolios. So, the first one that we
see a lot and that I wrestled with when
I was an allocator is that the metrics
are really different in growth equity.
So, it's a different amount of work and
it's often a different template. If you
happen to be an allocator who does a lot
of diligences every year and tries to
template things in a way that you can
compare across your managers, the
template has to be different and that
creates a lot of friction. And that
friction explains why a lot of GPS don't
pursue growth equity as primary
investors. And it also explains why
there's not been a secondary market for
growth equity that has developed because
the secondary market largely focuses on
buyout where it's a very transferable
set of metrics. So if you think about
growth equity, you have to develop a
deeper expertise in a broader set of
metrics. It's not all just Ebida. You
have a variety of companies, some of
which are valued on revenue metrics,
some of which are on that journey where
they're pivoting between a revenue
metric and a ebidon metric depending on
what the exit outcome is. And then
you've got to think about things like
gross margins. You've got to think about
ARR. So you have to have the database to
compare that to contextualize it. It's
not like early stage venture where you
can just say most of the metrics are NA.
So you have to build that muscle. But
that muscle is one reason that the space
is less competed and really interesting.
So I've talked to a lot of allocators
who say I just can't fit it into my
metrics. But I think that's one of the
arguments for diversification relative
to your 9th, 10th or 11th buyout
allocation. One of the other things that
I would challenge LPS to think about and
I haven't yet figured out how to
quantify this. Maybe someday I will. But
we always plugged our portfolio in to
look at the underlying diversification.
You looked at the underlying
diversification by vintage year of
assets or commitments. [music]
>> Oh, that's good stuff there. And I think
underscores the fact that growth equity,
as we've been hinting throughout this
entire episode, is a mix of both art and
science as far as value creation. The
LBO transaction has a very well-known
established model, but you just can't
replicate that with a growth equity
model, at least not yet.
>> The other factor to consider is the
level of involvement these GPS have with
these companies. So, as John mentioned,
venture is always minority investing,
but you have a lot of influence, a lot
of say in the governance, and a lot of
hands-on guidance for these founders.
Buyouts of course come with a lot of
structural control because you're taking
full control of the company as an equity
investor. So you have a lot of ability
to influence as well. However, growth
equity is slightly different because it
can be active or passive. You can
provide equity financing and be along
for the ride or you can provide some of
those value ad opportunities that John
walked through as well.
>> Well, perhaps tying it back to what I
said a little bit earlier, that
spectrum, that continuum is really
important. And perhaps to continue
Suzanne's thoughts from just a few
moments ago, she emphasizes as we've
tried to as well that growth equity is
much more about supercharging what's
already working, which means customizing
and creating a bespoke solution for each
engagement to fit their needs.
[music] I think value creation is very
challenging for limited partners to
assess from all of their general
partners in this decade. I think there's
such a diversity of models now. In the
2000s, you had a pretty defined model.
In the 2010s, you had three models. And
now, we have a proliferation of models
in every strategy within private
markets. And growth is not exempt from
that. The two words around value
creation that you would hear at our
investment committee are influence and
alignment. And so the way we think about
this is that we're investing behind
outstanding companies and we need to
identify those founders or management
teams that want our help upfront because
what we're doing is putting our help
against our best companies to get them
to grow faster. This isn't about fixing
problems or pulling your lagards up
along with your portfolio. This is about
supercharging your best companies. And
in growth equity, your best companies
could already be growing 40, 50, 60% by
rule 40, rule of 50. So these are great
companies. And what you're looking for
is founders or management teams who stay
up at night thinking about the things
that they're not doing that they could
be doing and they either just don't have
the time to do it or they don't have the
capabilities inhouse to do it. So we're
coming in as a very focused partner with
partners that have opted in to do this
with us and they opt in before we
invest. We're not showing up with an
army the day after we write them a
check. So, they're opting into the two
or three things that we know we can do
for these companies. And because our
companies are younger and often quite
fast growing, in many cases, it might be
the first time they've done something.
It doesn't mean those challenges are
simple, but we can bring tools in a
replicable way to our companies. Whether
it's capital markets, if they've never
thought about financing or thought about
an IPO, whether it's management
assessment, they've often had one team
on the field since they started their
company. And then on the operational
value ad, we have a package of tools
that we can use with our companies
around go to market, around pricing.
This last year, supply chain was name of
the game if you had a supply chain.
[music]
Okay, so we've spent some time defining
the space, talking about some of its
differences to other private equity
strategies, and then how you perform
some of those initial due diligence
questions. I think the two final missing
pieces here are how to look at
performance and then how to think about
portfolio integration. So, I'll cover
both of these. As we've discussed,
growth equity has an interesting profile
that sits somewhere between the profile
of venture capital and buyouts, but it's
a little bit more complicated than just
looking at median returns or cortile
spreads because many of those can be
misleading. So, according to Cambridge
Associates data, growth equity net
horizon IRS were actually higher than
both buyout and venture capital despite
supposedly sitting in between them in
terms of stages and risk. So you can
already see how this gets a little bit
more complicated. You can also look at
different risk metrics like loss ratios
or draw downs. And by those measures,
growth equity actually looks really
similar to buyouts. So you might be
telling yourself, "Oh, nice. All the
upside and no downside relative to some
of these different strategies, but not
so fast." I think it's important to take
a step back and think about the dynamics
of buyout and venture relative to growth
equity. Venture is very much a manager
selection game. So these poolled median
returns mass the tremendous upside of
the top GPS and the fact that most
investors earn disappointing median
returns. Buyouts on the other hand have
grown significantly over the past decade
or so making their performance much more
competitive amongst the sub strategy and
you can see this in most of the
dispersion data as well. So depending on
the data set it can be very hard to
differentiate amongst these strategies.
However, what about the investor
experience? As we all know, pulled
returns can be misleading. So, I had to
put on my quant hat to try to understand
how these strategies differ from one
another because they have to, or at
least they should. And it's not until
you start to dig deeper into return
distributions, so not dispersions, but
distributions of funds, that you can see
a very different story than some of the
more traditional cortile spreads that
we've been seeing. Then some of the
numbers start to line up with some of
the intuition. Okay, class. We're going
to dust off the old Kaya textbook for
this one and talk about two statistical
concepts that are really important for
alternatives. Skewess and curtosis. By
the way, John, I now have a lot of
empathy for you after doing this
exercise. I realize that many of my
jokes may feel like looking at skewed
data. Why? Well, you just don't know how
to interpret it sometimes. I'll let that
sit for a second. Oh my goodness, this
has spiraled so poorly.
Okay, in all seriousness, when you look
at the return distributions of these
private equity substrategies, they look
really, really different. So again, the
dispersion numbers mask the experience
of an investor. Venture capital, for
example, follows a right skew
distribution, which means a bunch of low
returns with a long positive tail. And
it's platocic, meaning those tails are
fat and you have extremes on either side
of the distribution. Buyouts ironically
follow more or less a normal
distribution. So it looks a little bit
more like what you see in public equity
parts of public fixed income and so on.
And then unlike both growth equity
follows a leptocritic distribution
meaning that it has really thin tails
and a lot clustered around the median
and the mean which looks very different
from venture. And this makes sense
intuitively when you think about these
companies being well established and
there's not a lot of extremes. They've
already gone through the system and done
their thing. They should all be
clustered around those different return
profiles.
>> Aaron, what was that P word for VC
again?
>> Platocurtic.
>> Listeners, forgive me. I need another
glass of wine on that one. [laughter]
>> I can give you a master class if you
want.
>> Another interesting thing here is that
while median returns may line up buyout,
growth, and VC in that order, if you're
just looking at the mean returns of
those distributions, it actually goes
the opposite way. buyout has the highest
mean return followed by growth and
followed by venture capital being at the
lowest end. So if you're in that analyst
seat, it's not enough to just look at
median returns and cortiles and instead
look at where those returns are
clustered and where you actually might
be able to invest in those clusters.
Again, venture capital is very much an
access class in a lot of different ways.
So I guess it makes sense to me that
return distributions would look very
different given the different
motivations and the different
fundamental drivers of returns as well
as the different economic backdrops
which we'll talk about here in a second.
So from a portfolio perspective there
are a few things that I want to
highlight as well. First is that growth
equity sensitivity to the economic cycle
relative to other parts of the private
equity ecosystem is different as well.
Growth equity tends to be in more of a
secular growth phase, meaning that the
growth is accelerating so fast that it
doesn't actually matter what's happening
in the background. Counterintuitively,
growth actually may be less sensitive to
economic performance than buyouts. And a
lot of this might be due to sector
composition and representation as well
as the leverage that is found in
buyouts. But again, growth is all about
growth. They're growing so fast that the
sensitivity to the broader market may be
more muted. However, growth equity still
has some level of sensitivity and tends
to be more sensitive than venture
capital for a completely different
reason. Remember, venture capital is
highly idiosyncratic. So, while it may
be riskier than growth equity in
aggregate, it's mostly because the
returns are highly dependent on the
specific portfolio company's risk. So
maybe to make a public market analogy,
venture capital is like deep in the
money call options on a portfolio of
stocks, whereas growth may be resembling
more of an actively managed portfolio of
stocks. Second and related is how growth
equity compares to your public stock
market book. Now remember, growth
companies are more established, so you
should be careful not to double up your
exposure or worse, pay higher fees for a
fund manager that's giving you beta
exposure that you can get much cheaper.
We see this argument a lot in buyouts,
but I also think this applies to growth
as well. Perhaps even more so than
buyout, growth equity seems to be an
access strategy just like venture
capital because these are earlier stage
companies. More often than not, you
benefit from the illquidity and patient
capital. So these companies are able to
execute on their strategy and perhaps
these companies are actually not going
to go public anyways. You see this in
Jcurve measurements in terms of how long
it takes to break even. And those J
curves actually don't look all that
dissimilar to venture. So you tend to
have a lot of longer term themes with
higher growth potential that sit in this
part of the private equity ecosystem. So
while growth equity is not exclusively
technology companies, most of them are
tech enabled or sit in a
technologydriven flywheel as Bane called
it in one of their private equity
reports. So you have things like
consumer, healthcare, business services,
and other sectors that you have just
like everywhere else. They're just
jumping the curve and are enabled by
technology, more recently AI. Finally, I
want to talk about the market
segmentation and how different growth
equity investors tend to operate and
build their portfolios because that may
influence how you integrate this into
your own portfolio. Again, Bane had a
really good private equity report a
couple of years ago that had a few
examples that I think showcase the
different motivations and approaches
that different types of participants in
the growth equity market tend to employ.
First are hedge funds and crossover
funds. So like venture capital managers,
these managers tend to be highly
thematic and usually focus on
technology. They're also really fast
decision makers and passive investors.
So again going back to that passive
versus active spectrum. So these
investors will often pay up for growth
and they'll sacrifice control in order
to get on to a particular theme. Second
are your traditional growth equity
players. So this is what we've been
talking about for the duration of the
episode. These investors tend to be
slower to move, are more valuation
conscious, and want to find a way to be
more active in the portfolio company.
Now, as Suzanne said, they definitely
are quicker to make decisions than maybe
full-blown buyout funds, but they tend
to follow a more traditional underlining
approach. And then third are your buyout
funds or more traditional GPS that are
entering the growth market. So bio
managers as a structure have a much
harder time moving into growth since
they tend to prioritize control and
board seats to engineer their way to
success. However, some of the larger
players are beginning to dip into growth
equity. You look at companies like
Blackstone and KKR who have built up
their buyout capabilities and now
they're trying to port some of those
skills over into growth equity. So you
may have growth equity with a bit more
of a buyoutesque type of bent. So, John,
I think that might be a good place to
stop because I know you have a few
examples of some high-profile
transactions that bring this whole story
home. So, I'll turn this over to you to
give some of those different examples.
>> Yeah, I think that tutorial on the way
to approach the frames and the lenses by
which to approach portfolio integration
is so helpful. You know, jokes aside on
your big academic words for a moment, I
think sometimes we get lost in kind of
mean returns or irr of course, which
have other flaws too as we know and
don't think about the distributions. And
that was a really interesting comparison
because it does at least it should
explicitly influence how you think about
integrating in this in the portfolio
based upon your risk budget, based upon
your fund's goal, your organization's
purpose, etc. So I thought that was
really really helpful and really
distinguishes the three from each other
maybe more than the headline returns
might suggest. Also, your beta point I
think is important and I've been on the
record and not everybody likes when I
frame it this way. But you can on the
one hand say, well, this is just
expensive beta. But the reality is if
growth equity over the last 10 years has
enabled this massive theme of staying
private longer, which I think it has
because in the old days all you had was
VC and then you would launch them off
the seessaw into an IPO immediately. So
there was no even latestage venture much
less a teenage and early adulthood
capability to stay private. And now
there's very little urgency than when I
was early in my career to ever go
public. And particularly as I've said in
the new economy businesses we've noted
like pure tech software these capital
light businesses like biotech tech
enabled services. So you can sit there
and say all you want that it's expensive
beta but if that beta doesn't exist in
the public markets well then it's not
really beta. So, I think that was a
really helpful reminder, too. So, yes,
Erin, I thought I'd close out this
episode with a little fun by
highlighting some famous historical
deals that really epitomize the strategy
and serve as good illustrations to bring
all of this background and your
tutorials and thoughts together. So,
sometimes to understand these asset
classes, especially these coming of age
stories, the most effective way is to
peek into a few iconic companies that we
would all know and discover how growth
equity was a critical part of their
stories. So none of these growth equity
shops discovered these ideas. The
initial VC firms should be credited with
that. But in this baton handoff, growth
equity is what took them to household
names and solidified their future. So
let's have a little fun here as we
finish off. 2009 GA invested in Facebook
when it was already recognized on
college campuses and amongst the younger
generation, but still very much in
hyperrowth mode. And the capital helped
Facebook expand internationally, build
out its infrastructure, and prepare for
its IPO a few years later in 2012. In
2013, TPG growth backed Uber during its
global expansion phase. And we all might
remember this when we would travel once
we got spoiled in the States if you're
from the US by Uber and you go overseas
and even to developed parts of the world
and you're still back in the municipal
taxis. So as I said, Benchmark and Bill
Gurley specifically were famously the
primary VC as most of us know and as
such the company had already proven its
model in many cities. But TBG and Growth
Equity helped it go global very rapidly.
It also helped Uber navigate a lot of
the regulatory challenges in the
municipalities and the states and the
cities. It also helped it build out its
leadership team. Actually 2015 Airbnb
was certainly beginning to disrupt
hospitality but it needed capital to
expand again internationally deal with
complex legal environments and growth
equity investors such as Tiger,
Hillhouse and again GA provided not just
funding but strategic guidance on
scaling operations preparing for the
public markets. Then in 2016 TPG growth
and Dragon invested in Spotify as it was
expanding into new markets and refining
its product a bit. The capital helped
Spotify build out its premium
subscription model, negotiate licensing
deals, and prepare for its very famous
or infamous direct listing in 2018. And
finally, lastly, a fun one I pick given
the geopolitical hot potato that Tik Tok
has become today. GA and CO2 backed bite
dance in 2018 just as Tik Tok was
exploding globally. The investment
helped the company scale its
infrastructure, expanded into new
regions, navigate geopolitical
complexity here in the states, at least
for a while, as we know. So, just like
Chuck Feny paved the way decades
earlier, all of these deals were
supercharging efforts. Each one in their
own right involved a business that had
already found product market fit. It had
real revenue. It was ready to scale. But
growth equity provided the capital, the
expertise, and the strategic support to
make that happen. So, there you have it.
betting early but on already proven
ideas. Backing companies that already
are working and helping them work even
better. Scaling without surrendering
from a founder perspective. Growing
without overextending from an investor
perspective that's growth equity. So
it's less high octane than VC. Less
headlining you might say than buyout.
It's an agency partner that bridges good
to great regional to global promising to
dominant. And so for founders, it's a
way to raise what you might call
secondphase capital while still
retaining control. And it's a way to
bring in strategic partners who
understand the journey and are experts
on diagnosing and prescribing the right
hyperscaling ramps at the right time.
And for investors, it's a way to access
high growth opportunities with lower
risks than early stage venture and less
financial engineering than buyouts. It's
a strategy that's built in the end on
fundamentals, revenue, customers,
margins, and momentum. That friends is
growth equity and we will leave it
there. So we really appreciate you
hanging with us. These coming of age
stories I have found on asset classes
and [music] their stories to stardom are
particularly popular. So I'll be excited
to see and hear on your feedback. I hope
this [music] was helpful. Aaron, thanks
for the journey. Thanks for riding along
and to Cananters. We will see you next
time.
