digital assets and their underlying
blockchain technology tend to focus pro
mostly on their promise predictions
about future applications. But we're now
at a crossroads. Some of those promises
have been fulfilled and parts of the
digital asset ecosystem look like they
are sustainable and will become
permanent parts of the financial system
architecture while others still remain
aspirational promises. In this session,
we're going to examine the current state
of play. We'll cover many assets of uh
many aspects of digital assets including
crypto, stable coins, payments,
tokenizations, and regulation throughout
the world. So, let's get started. Let me
start with Adib Ahmed from Lulu
Financial Holdings. So Adib um your
group operates across multiple regions
and touches millions of customers
through its payments and remittances
ecosystem. From your vantage point, how
have crossber payments evolved over the
past few years and what shifts are you
seeing today as new digital asset
payment infrastructures begin to take
shape?
>> Thank you for uh having me here at the
session today. Um so one thing that
we've always known in the last couple of
decades that the future of finance is is
digital. While this has been an accepted
uh thought
over the last two decades we have we
have seen a very slow but a predictable
shift from cash to digital. But what we
are seeing at at today's cross junction
is is a is a a complete rebuild. And
this is many factors because you know we
have many new forms of money that has
come into the market. So we have stable
coin, cryptos,
tokenized uh money, you know digital
assets, uh blockchains. So there's a a
different kind of payment methodologies
that have come into the market. The last
couple of years the geopolitical tension
around the world has fragmented the the
financial uh payment ecosystem in each
of the countries. Today you will see
majority of central banks wanting to
establish their own regional payment
ecosystem in in in in all countries. So
you have the the larger players like UPI
in India in Brazil you have uh Annie
here in UAE you have the the pay now in
in Singapore. Um and then we have um we
have the aspect of of the the the need
of the crossber payment to be uh
seamless uh and that requires an
interpolity between each of these uh
fragmented uh payment ecosystem. So you
know with all these new elements of of
uh activities that has come in sight we
we still gearing up our entire aspect of
of understanding how the payment could
be much more seamless. I thought I I
feel that you know the use of stable
coin is is largely increasing in its its
its uh usage. Uh even though that if you
look at the 24 numbers you know we'll
see that you know the the the payment
used in on stable coins is is still less
than a percentage of what is used on
traditional money. Uh so we see that you
know the stable coins is is still in its
very nent form and there is a long f way
for uh the usage of stable coins to be
on the mainstream. Um in terms of
Bitcoin, yeah, you know, it's it's still
up in there. You know, we we don't have
central banks regulations on that
aspect. But the good thing at least from
our side of the world that is here in
UAE u the regulator has become co-author
of writing regulations and that's that's
a very good news for all of us here
because you know they involve us in in
finding out and understanding this new
journey which is also very new to them
you know and this allows players like us
to assist in in in in in getting the
right regulations placed because it does
not become a bottleneck and it become it
brings in more efficiency to the user
stage of of of tomorrow.
>> Thank you, Adib. Yeah, you mentioned
both stable coins and and the role of
regulators and industry players working
with them. We'll get we'll do some deep
dives on those for Thank you for setting
us up on that. So, Yonyi, I want to come
to you next. You're the co-founder and
CEO of E Toro, which is a leading global
trading and investment platform. And you
trade uh you allow folks to trade
traditional securities like stocks,
ETFs, options. We also allow them to
trade on the same app alongside digital
assets um which are continuing to grow
in popularity not only among retail but
also institutional investors. So, um it
seems like they've been kind of the the
new thing, the popular thing to be
trading, but um how long have you
offered investment in digital assets and
how important is crypto trading on your
platform um relative to the other the
other assets that you trade and and and
and what trends are you seeing over
time?
>> Sure. So, uh we started actually buying
Bitcoin back in 2011 where it was $5. Uh
we should have bought more. um uh and
they launched Bitcoin in 2013. We were
uh the first uh regulated financial
institution to offer Bitcoin trading in
Europe then expanded our business from
Europe to the UK, Australia, Singapore,
Abu Dhabi here in the US. Uh and we
started our business in in capital
markets, stock trading. I think what
we've seen over the last 12 years uh
this this is a generational asset class.
Uh it's not only about the technology,
it's about a new form of capital
markets. It's a global capital markets.
We have today over 500 million people
that actually uh trade and invest in
digital assets uh across the globe. So
this is far beyond already the
inflection point of usage. uh more
people actually invest today in digital
assets than than the stock markets
directly. Uh and when we look at uh the
younger generations uh joining it Toro
uh and many of the people who join it
Toro join in their early 20s into it
Toro with as low as $50 or $100 to start
basically their investment journey and
then grow grow with us and grow their
investment with us over time. uh and we
actually see that today uh crypto in
many cases is actually their first asset
class. Uh so this is a generational
asset class where younger generations
are actually start first to invest in
crypto assets such as Bitcoin and
Ethereum and we suddenly find our role.
We used to say always that it Toro uh
caters to younger generations. Me at Gen
Y. Now we're catering to even younger
generations. And I find myself actually
trying to explain to uh Gen uh zeters
why they need to diversify from digital
assets and crypto assets into the stock
markets um uh to diversify their
investments and take less risk. And
actually sometimes it's hard because
their expectations are very different.
But again, if you think of the size and
scale, we're thinking already in
trillions. It's a already a $4 trillion
market cap economy. Uh if you think of
size and scale, again, it's like
comparing newspapers to blogs. So there
are we uh recently went uh public, very
proud to go public on NASDAQ this year.
Um but when you think of the number of
publicly traded companies in the US,
it's only 4,000. actually down I think
from about 8,000 to 4,000 over the past
decade. Uh if you think of the number of
crypto assets out there, it's over a 100
million
types of crypto assets out there. So
basically people are just launching new
tokens every day launching new types of
assets, new types of tokens. So that new
ecosystem opens an opportunity. If you
think of the number of smallmedium
businesses just if I remember correctly
just Europe and the US 65 million
smallmedium businesses that up until
today didn't really have access to
capital markets because capital markets
are reserved for significantly larger
companies. I I I remember starting it
Toro my father told me you need to get
to $50 million to get public. uh by the
time we got public 18 years after we're
at almost a billion dollar revenues. So
the thresholds continuously go up of
traditional public markets but there's a
huge need of capital formation for many
other businesses across the globe. So
it's not about only the ability to
invest into digital assets. It's also
about what do you invest in and when you
invest on the other side there's capital
formation. So it's a new type of capital
formation which is global which is
already there and now we're seeing
what's really interesting with uh
regulatory updates coming both from
Europe with recent Mika and now with
probably the friendliest administration
anybody could hope for uh in the US uh
with chair Paul Atkins continuously
talking about capital markets moving on
chain uh and and that's where we are now
at that next stage of growth for digital
assets. It is the inevitable hundred
trillion dollar move of traditional
assets and new type of assets onto the
blockchain. So we're talking about the
probably the next 10 to 20 years a huge
shift of assets both existing ones like
stocks very popular right now tokenizing
the stock markets themselves uh in what
I say is uh capital markets copying
crypto markets because our customers are
used to trading 24/7 so when we started
it Toro everything used to be only
market hours now suddenly stocks trade
on it Toro 245 live now shifting to
24/7. Why? Because customers who trade
crypto 24/7 expect also stocks to trade
24/7 and fixed income to trade 24/7. So
what we're seeing is capital markets
copying crypto markets in behavior which
means 24/7 transferability and you're
seeing traditional assets everything
from obviously the dollar stable coin
now by the way $350 billion of
stablecoin which means it's one of the
top 10 holders of treasury in the world
is actually a young digital asset
investors are actually the I think the
fifth or sixth largest holders of
treasuries in the US. So you see that
move of traditional asset classes and
then real estate, bond markets, private
markets all moving onchain. So very
exciting times to see that process from
23 trillion into hundred trillion
dollars over the next 10 to 20 years.
>> Oh, that's great. I mean tokenization,
stable coins. We'll get to that um in
just a couple minutes. I I can't help
but notice when you listed the countries
that you were in sort of in order, you
got to the UAE and everybody else before
you got to the US. So, we'll get back to
that. You said the current
administration is the most brisk most
pro crypto, but we'll we'll contrast
that with your experience in the past.
So, I want to now move to Yvall um who's
the co-founder and CEO of digital asset,
which is a leader in the use of
blockchain technology to improve capital
flows. Um, as I mentioned, you know, the
title is from promise to permanence. And
if you if you go all the way back to the
sort of the original big bang, the
Satoshi white paper, right? It was the
promise, one of the promises of
blockchain technology is it would create
a new financial architecture. Um, tell
us about the Canton network and how um
it's fulfilling the promise of
blockchain.
>> Sure. And maybe I want to just build on
what Yonyi said. I I really like he said
generational asset class and kind of at
the end I I'll summarize. is I think
we're we're seeing a generational user
experience, right? This point of of real
world is copying crypto. I think what
we're seeing is hap what's happening
right now is that markets are adopting a
new user experience and and that user
experience is not going back. meaning
everything onchain. It's not just 24/7,
it's settlement times. It's the ability
to take my assets and pledge them as
collateral against many types of
products. Like if you think about today,
if I go to a traditional uh broker
dealer, I cannot take my Apple stock and
really lend it as a retail customer. Yet
in crypto, I can lend my crypto into
many types of products. So if Yonyi for
example wants to offer his clients to go
into private credit which is a really
good asset class but he says to his
clients well it will take you 20 days to
settle this or you cannot trade it or
you cannot pledge it as collateral
they're going to say what is this stupid
asset class no interest no thank you so
I think that this user experience is is
really what is proliferating and what
crypto have shown because at the end of
the day I am I am still a believer that
assets should have utility and cash
flows at the end of the day cash flows
will win long term but not if they don't
have a user experience they will not
proliferate so I think that this point
of wall street is copying crypto is
probably the most important comment here
because otherwise it will not succeed um
so in 2012 I used to work for a company
called DRW trading which started trading
Bitcoin in 2012 and we started thinking
about well what does it mean to trade
crypto assets and you know back then it
was not very capital efficient to trade
Bitcoin but you know given where it is
right now it was a very good trade but
when you think about it from a capital
market structure perspective it was not
very efficient and we started thinking
about well what does it mean to run
capital markets natively on chain we
started thinking about what are the
characteristics that will be required to
bring a lot of institutional players to
participate natively on chain. Yes, in
crypto, but also again back then we were
starting to think well there's 400
trillion worth of assets. If we can
bring that kind of assets on chain that
would be even more exciting and for us
it was it was a few a few components but
I would probably say that back then we
we said that privacy is the most
important component. Um back then when
it came to crypto we were not very
popular saying that privacy is a good
thing because you know in traditional
crypto rails if you can say that there
is no privacy and our view was if you
want you know citadel securities if you
want DRW if you want Goldman if you want
those type of players to provide deep
liquidity on markets they just wouldn't
do it if everybody can see all of their
activity it's just for us that was table
stakes u and The reality is that
building um um a blockchain with privacy
uh capabilities that are still going to
be regulatory compliant because not all
privacy is created equally uh is not a
trivial task. So in 2016 we started
building Canton uh which is is a layer
one that allows for configurable privacy
and the reason why I say configurable
privacy is that we don't believe that
everything is either public or private
right like Yoni's website has a lot of
elements to it that are public he shows
stock prices he shows crypto prices but
if you want to if you want to open an
account his customers accounts are not
public for the whole world to See, so
this idea that you could actually
>> we actually are by the way, right? Cuz
we're a social network. So people share
their portfolio.
>> They share, but you don't have to,
right? Like you could you could actually
again so it's configurable, right? So so
this idea that the world is not binary.
You have to allow for this configurable
privacy. Um and the reality is we
launched a year and a half ago. We
launched uh the the layer 1 after uh
testing it for many years with with
large scale institutions. And for
example, one of the most exciting we
talked about stable coins is now you
could actually move stable coins on
Canton with privacy, but the stable coin
issuer still wants people to see the
activity. So the notional of a stable
coin movement is public for the world to
see. So you could actually see how much
volume is happening in your stable coin.
Who's the sender and the receiver is
private. They can actually keep it. But
to Yon's point, I mean, what we're
seeing today is pretty much every asset
class is getting excited. You you're
talking about crossword and you said, is
it permanent? Today on Canton, we're
processing close to 10% of the US repo
market. That's $400 billion of repo
every day. And this is not, you know,
retail. These are some of the largest
broker dealers in the world, banks, uh,
that are doing it. uh private credit is
definitely going to move onchain. I
cannot share but some of the largest GPS
are starting to put their private credit
facilities on blockchain to enable much
more efficient settlement and
securitization
mortgages bonds equities and all the way
to sports wagering. And I think that the
reality is what we're going to see is
I'm not I'm not going to say but you
know companies like it Tora are going to
become the banks of the future. At the
end of the day what are you looking for
from a bank is someone to custody your
assets and to provide you credit
services. And and really the reality is
if you really remove the friction of
managing assets and being able to pledge
assets as collateral borrow against
these assets, right? That can all happen
on your phone. And I think that that's
really the the direction of travel that
we're seeing and that's what we're
trying to enable through Kanto.
>> And after that promotion, I have to say
you can buy the token of KTO network on
the Toro app. [laughter]
>> Thank you. We'll save the commercials
for the end. No. So you've you know you
you and Adid were saying you know that
that that the Wall Street is learning
from the crypto markets. But in a sense
what you're doing is with this privacy
and allowing people to configure that is
a lot of what's what had already been
happening on alternative trading
systems. You you don't want to
necessarily show people what your
portfolio is or what your trading is for
frontunning purposes. And there's
different versions that are out there
and you're just providing that option
now in the crypto market.
>> Yeah. I I mean again for us it's a
decision. Yonyi for example how many
years ago did you start?
>> 18 years ago.
>> Yeah. His whole pitch was was a social
network like you actually want to
advertise your trades and that was the
whole that was the whole business model
and again that's a very clever business
model but you know if you are an
activist hedge fund
that is not your strategy right your
strategy is to create many legal
entities that by the time the company
knows that you know you took over it's
it's too late and again I'm not I'm not
here advocating for a business model but
at the end of the day Again the world is
not homogeneous. I mean you know we we
heard you know comments about uh swift I
mean this idea that everybody can sit on
just one network and then whatever some
third party can have control over your
sovereignty again is is another
challenge that we've seen in the last
few years due to geopolitics. So the
idea of Canton and hence by the name the
name Canton is from the Swiss system
where every canton has its own
sovereignty and control but they can all
interoperate under one country called
Switzerland. Right? That that was kind
of the the design uh uh characteristics
and what we're seeing is that that is
creating real excitement because now if
you're in UAE and you want to create
your payment system that's great. We
have our payment system. We can do
payments real time 24/7 with privacy. We
can interoperate with everyone on the
Kanto network. But if tomorrow whatever
we have disagreement with someone else
in the Kanto network, cool. We won't
interact with them anymore. But we still
have full sovereignty and control over
our own canton. It's a it's a very smart
feature of digital assets is smart
contracts or configurable money, right?
So every type of asset can basically be
configured to say who interacts with
that asset. What's the level of privacy
of that asset? Uh what's the speed of
settlement or configuration on how does
it settle? So a big part of digital
assets, it's not only 24/7
trading and transferability. It's the
fact that embedded in a digital asset is
the fact that it's a smart asset. It's a
smart contract. It's configurable
programmable money, right? Uh and that's
a very very big change to how financial
services and institutions interact today
where you know I interact with Goldman,
it's 500 pages of an ISDA agreement,
then I need to interact with another
firm, it's another 500 pages of an
agreement and and the funds between us
can't really move. It's very hard to
move assets between financial
institutions. So this is a paradigm
shift complete paradigm shift on the
infrastructure of financial services to
move into digital assets and very
interestingly the fact of privacy
non-privacy. So when we started ETO it
was about show your trading activity and
your portfolios are other people can cop
you. That has become today in Gen Zed,
the young again the younger generations
that has become not only the standard
but when you look at things like
prediction markets and all of the new
types of exchanges which are the
decentralized exchanges the default is
not only showing your performance but
actually showing the actual funds and
the actual P&L. Uh and people are
actually sharing their real P&L online
nonstop. So when you're looking now at,
you know, something that today has a lot
of buzz around it like prediction
markets, you go to Poly Markets and you
can actually see exactly how much this
user has made, you know, from $100 to
$100,000
uh in what he's been uh uh predicting or
betting on. Uh so everything is suddenly
on the public domain. So when you think
retail, everybody wants to be sort of on
the public domain and share things that
people didn't expect people will want to
share their actual financial
transactions with their actual funds and
the entire history of it right on the
blockchain where institutions need that
configurable money for things to be
private and a bit more secret.
>> Yeah. So this idea of it's configurable
money it you know you got smart
contracts and stuff and so that's a
perfect segue into what I want to ask uh
Joanne about in terms of the the
legality like what legally you know what
are these things so so Joanne's a
partner in the UAE office here in Abu
Dhabi at the Quinn Emanuel Global Law
Firm and um you get to deal with uh very
exciting issues like how is this defined
like what is this in law right and and
it actually is very important it matters
in terms of um legal uh rights,
creditors rights, tax issues and all
that stuff, right? We throw around terms
like digital assets, configurable money,
cryptocurrencies, right? What are these
things? Are they in terms of the where
where's the law in terms of these
things? Are are they currencies? Are
they something else? And why does it
matter?
>> That's kind of you, Mike, to call that
an exciting question. I I I will try to
make it uh an exciting answer. Um yeah,
it does matter. Hello, everybody. Um
fascinating to hear the conversation
from my panelists. I'm learning all the
time. So thank you for that. Um in the
law um as ever perhaps playing a little
bit of catchup towards the commercial
developments that are happening in the
wider business world and some might say
the law has been very slow to catch up
with these new and exciting products. Um
and often it only catches up when there
are real problems that come before the
courts that need that need um the courts
to decide important issues. Look um in
in the digital asset space um probably
the key question that a lot of
regulators and governments and courts
have had to grapple with is is a digital
asset um uh uh property and does it give
rise to property light rights under the
various um legal systems. There were
various cases coming out from
jurisdictions across the world on this
for for a number of years. Um uh one of
the first um bodies to really have a
good think about it was um uh the law
commission um in in the UK um where it
it did a big consultation um and and it
grappled with the problem that you know
um it's it's not a it's not a thing in
property, it's not a thing in action.
So, how can it be how can a digital
asset be a property because it didn't
fit into the one one of the two categor
defined um elements for property on the
law? And the law commission said um well
um yes, we think it we think a digital
asset is property, but it's a new it's a
new thing. It's it's a new type of
property. It's a third type of property
um all of its own. But that was just a
report. and the the the the report said
look we think that common law and the
development of the law in this space by
the judges is can deal with the changes
um needed legally for the for these new
products but they recommended change.
Now I'm happy to say that um the first
fully argued case at court of appeal
level on this question as far as I am
aware was a case here in the DI here in
the UAE that came before the DIC courts.
There was a case called Huobi
um where um a horrible um set of facts
came before the court where there was
there was a transfer of um uh um uh a
digital currency of Bitcoin um between a
buyer um a seller and a buyer with an
intermediary who was um who was meant to
help with the transfer and the
intermediary would only release
release the Bitcoin to the buyer once
the money had been received and um uh
there was um the the seller and the
intermediary um were innocent parties
but unfortunately the buyer found a way
to access the funds in the in the wallet
uh sorry that the tokens the bitcoin in
the wallet before it had given the money
which I won't get into how they did that
but it's it's a fascinating read um so
the question came before the DIC court
at the court of appeal level well um uh
are there property rights in this and
actually they looked at whether the
wallet uh um was property or and whether
the digital assets themselves were
property and relying heavily on that law
commission from um England and Wales the
United Kingdom it's it agreed and said
look clearly digital assets are capable
of being a property there are a third
kind of property um and it made the
decision it made it made its decisions
on that basis I that that case is
actually will be will um unfortunately
for other reasons um is set for a
retrial. But on that particular point,
it's it's as far as I'm aware, it's it's
the it's it's probably the decision in
the world on on that question at the
moment. So um short um soon after I
should say so since then there's been a
digital assets law in the DIC
um which um uh codifies um what they
found in that case that there is a is a
third kind of property that covers um
digital assets um uh and so I'm happy to
say that in the UAE right here in the
UAE we're making um we're making law
that will will I expect to be followed
all over the all around the world. It
comes against the background of um the
UAE leading from the front on these
issues. Um the ADGM was one of the
earliest if not the earliest adopters of
a full legal regulatory framework to
cover digital assets as long ago as 2018
through the DFSA the FSR. Um in Dubai uh
we have the world's first independent
asset digital asset regulator which you
guys will know more about than me. Um
but that that in of its own the fact
that it was a world first
um along with um modern uh legal
frameworks has said to the world that
you know this is a jurisdiction that um
is open to dig to digital assets. We're
here. We want it. We want it here. We
will regulate it. We will we will um
make it a um a a a place where investors
can be comfortable and where this
business can grow. Um so I mean forgive
me I've spoken a lot about the UAE. Um
but I defend that because it it's a
leader in its field in this space.
I totally agree and we'll get to that
like we've had you know the folks on
your your fellow panelists have set up
here in the UAE particularly for that
but I want to get to so so now it's
right we it's property it's well defined
in law in the United States the internal
revenue service has said for tax
purposes in the US it's considered
property so that's pretty you know
there's cases going on pretty much
settled so from then you have legal
certainty then all the property rights
and stuff then follow from that and then
you get innovation you know like that
that Yanni and was talking about
tokenization of a of a lot of different
things. Now, the phrase tokenization can
mean a lot of different things to a lot
of people. So, I want to get from all of
our all of our speakers, what exactly
when you're talking about tokenization,
um what are you thinking about? Um what
has promise? What has actually uh
permanence uh in terms of uh going on,
you know, and there's a lot of folks
that said we're going to tokenize
everything in the future. Really? Are we
going to tokenize everything? Um what's
hype? what's reality um what's promise
where have we actually um gotten some
permanence on this so Adib let me start
with you
>> yeah so I think so we we're still at a
very nent stage of of tokenization of
everything you know of there's a lot of
conversation on on on saying that you
know you get real estate tokenized you
could get uh real asset tokenized you
can get money tokenized you get uh um
capital flow tokenized yes but all this
are happening at its very nent stage and
everything the panel has spoken before
and I think so we we're missing out you
know the the the tokenization aspect the
transformational aspect the innovation
aspect well there's a a new layer that
has now just come on top of that it's
it's a transformative power of AI you
know and and the moment you put the
transformative power of AI on on all
these kind of things it now gives
consumer even more power of analytics
data uh ability to make more precise
decision when to move funds when not to
move funds. Uh um the ability to predict
the rates uh ahead of time. Um you know
the usage of funds, you know, where to
park funds, you know, what's the best
yield coming through. So you know the
the transformative power of AI is is is
also moving at a very fast pace and
that's that's going to be the real game
changer as we move forward.
>> Well, that's great. So Yanni, I know you
want to jump in here, but let me let me
preface this with real quick. So you
mentioned the um as the US Securities
and Exchange Commission Chairman Paul
Atkins has he's given a lot of speeches
saying we want to move the US capital
markets onchain and he's been filling in
the details of that. Just yesterday uh
he gave a speech to the investor
advisory committee where he said quote
tookenization is not just about
transforming how trades and securities
occur. It can also enable direct
connectivity for proxy voting, dividend
payments and shareholder communications
reducing the need for multiple
intermediaries in the process as well.
Love to get your perspective on that and
you've all then get yours.
>> So I think the question is like there
are like let's talk about like two very
very large databases that exist in every
country. There's land registry and
there's company registry, right? And
there's a question of why are these
registries analog, hard to access,
right? So I set up a company. I want to
transfer shares from one place to
another in that company. There's a whole
process with lawyers and accountants
instead of just clicking a button. I buy
real estate. It's somewhere again in a
government registry. Why can't I sell a
fraction of that real estate? Right? So
you you look just at these two and say
isn't the user experience a better user
experience when somebody owns something
to be able to change the ownership in a
digital way in a simple way right so
when you think about that you started
understanding the size of tokenization
is really about potentially taking
asset classes or sizes of asset classes
that don't exist today that are not
transferable today that all of their
rights are not transferable including
potentially proxy voting uh a
frictionalization etc. So I do believe
that actually the future is tokenizing
almost everything um all types of
assets. Um and I think potentially every
company even a private company could be
a digital register. So it's very easy to
potentially uh share pledge sell its uh
shares without becoming what is
considered today a public company which
again the bar always goes up and up and
up. So I think when Paul Atkins the CC
chair is talking about moving capital
markets onchain, it's moving a lot of
new asset classes on chain and all of
those rights that are eventually
property rights and the legal rights
associated with those have to be
embedded in law. Like in crypto there's
this saying which is very famous. It's
not your not your keys, not your coins.
And the reason for that is because
Bitcoin was the first form of true
digital ownership, right? So up until
then, if you had a digital asset, money
in the bank, who owns the money? Do you
own the money or really the bank owns
the money? Because if the bank is closed
and or the app is down, you can't access
your money. Uh so who really owns the
money? It's a third party that controls
the rails where with Bitcoin and that
was my aha moment in 2011 when I I mined
my first Bitcoin and I realized, hey, I
actually own this uh and nobody can take
it away from me or confiscate it from me
because I own the keys to my coins. Now
connecting that to real world assets to
property rights basically connects that
for what you've also I'm uh actually I
I'm doubling down on hundred trillion
you said $400 trillion so $400 trillion
are going to move on chain uh and that
is in a very exciting process where you
can understand also why the United
States wants to take a big part of that
process of that move of everything own
shape.
>> Yeah, you've all
>> Yeah, I I I think Atkins uh comments uh
need to be taken very seriously because
I think that um the word tokenization
although is a very sexy and exciting
word, it's a single word that can mean
so many different things. Uh and I think
that that's a bit of of the problem with
it because for the most part and and
your example about banks is a great one.
I mean, for the most part, when you look
at most tokenization projects today,
someone buys the assets in the
traditional world, they mobilize them
and they mint an IOU token. For the most
part, most of the tokenization projects
today are actually derivatives. So, if
you own an option of a single stock or
future on a single stock, you're not
entitled to proxy vote. You're not
entitled. You remember when Birkshire
was was was the hottest company, you
would buy just one share to be invited
to their ADG, you know, their their
annual meeting. Um well, today if you
buy a tokenized Burke stock, you're not
invited. You're not an actual legal
holder of the security. And I think that
point that Atkins brings
holds something very deep in it where
when I talk about tokenization,
I want to say the books and records of
an asset is the token. If I hold the
token, I'm the legal tender holder. I
actually am entitled to all the rights
and obligations associated with that
security or with that instrument like
Bitcoin. And I think that that's
something that to me is we're still, you
know, ways from from getting there
because the reason why crypto to me was
so exciting is when you look at
something like a right like like a
lending protocol, you give them
Ethereum, you get USDC. And the reason
why it works is because the books and
records for Ethereum is Ethereum. You
you know as a lender you don't have risk
that the asset is somewhere offchain and
someone can lend or sell it or double
spend it. The reality is that if I want
to pledge today a tokenized equity,
well, I'm actually taking risk on that
broker dealer that immobilized it
because I don't know if it's really in
their in their broker dealer account.
All I see is a token. So I think that
what what I think Atkins means is we
need to get to a place where the actual
token is equal the the the asset. And to
me that's where today there's still a
lot of you know we just call it
tokenization and and not all
tokenization projects are created
equally. They're not all have bankruptcy
remote protections. There's there's just
a lot of nuance to it. And I think that
we really need to get to the point that
we just don't make a differentiation. I
just own Apple stock. I just own it on
much more sophisticated rails that allow
me to move it 24/7. I can trade it 24/7.
I can pledge it as collateral, but I'm
an Apple stock investor. I'm not, you
know, that that that to me is where we
need to get to when we talk about
tokenization.
>> Yeah, I agree with you. I mean I think
right so to Paul Atkins point it's not
just about the trading and what we call
market structure type issues but it's
that lower level that infrastructure the
basic plumbing of this which in one hand
can be kind of boring but on the other
hand it's things like the role of
transfer agents or the role of clearance
and settlement or securities lending you
know keeping track of all this stuff
like this can be transformative in terms
of books and records and stuff I mean in
in the United States transfer agent
rules are so old. They've only been
updated once since the 1980s, and that
was in 1999 for Y2K compliance. I mean,
that's how old some of this technology
is. Whereas with this new technology,
you can come in and transform a lot of
this stuff.
>> So, Figure actually just now filed an S1
for a whole new CQIP where that security
will exist only on blockchain. That's
it. That and again, that publicly listed
company
>> public
>> that is already public and now they're
saying we're going to issue more stock
>> and but th those stock are going to be
the digital stock of the company and
we're going to create a bridge between
the digital stock and the real stock so
it's the same and you'll be able to buy
it on it Toro no I'm kidding but uh
>> I'm not but so it's very interesting
because it's the first time ever a
publicly traded company
is basically creating its own digital
version of stock.
>> Yeah. So I I I think that the point is
Kagny is definitely a pioneer saying
like this is the first the first time
but when we look at that we need to do
that for all assets right because at the
end of the day if you're an asset
allocator right you're not going to
manage your securities and then my
Kagney stock right like at the end of
the day what we what we have come to
understand over the last few years it's
a funny story we came to a big asset
manager top Vive and we did a digital
bond and we said to them, "Here's your
wallet." And they're like, "No, no, no.
We use State Street." Like, "Go to
Straight Street." They're like, "No, no,
you don't need State Street. Here's your
wallet." And they're like, "We manage X
trillions of dollars, and you want us to
think about X trillion plus $50 million?
That's just not going to happen. We are
very excited about this $50 million, but
that needs to look the same across the
board. We're not going to start managing
new world, old world. We need to create
that user experience across the board.
>> Yeah. Now, let me um let me go to um to
Joanne. So, Joanne, you were very
positive with respect to the regulatory
environment here in the UA UAE. U we at
the Milin Institute totally agree with
you. A few years ago, we did a study.
You know, a lot of the GCC countries
were saying to folks, come to our
jurisdiction. We we have the regulatory
framework for fintech in general,
digital assets in particular. And we did
a study and we said we basically
concluded we said the competition is
really not across countries, it's within
one country. It's really Abu Dhabi
versus Dubai. Bahrain was probably
third. Would love to get your
perspective in terms of is that still
true? Um and then also um you know
digital assets it's truly a global
market and unfortunately with that
global market comes global fraud. Um
love to get your perspectives in terms
of um fraud risk in these markets. How
are regulators dealing with it? How are
lawyers dealing with it? You know when I
was at the SEC the big thing that was
going on at the time was initial coin
offerings. And at the regulators it's
always we're kind of the last to catch
up. So we relied on law firm. We went
out to the law firms and asked them. We
said, "What are you guys seeing in
initial coin offerings? Is this really
something that's really good for capital
formation? Is there something else going
on?" And the answers that we got from
the law firms were interesting. It was
consistent that nine out of 10 ICO
issuers that came through the door. It
was outright fraud. There was literally
one called Ponzi Coin at the time. And
it was like it was amazing. They had a
white paper that explained it was a
Ponzi scheme, right? And they were doing
that. And then out of the one out of 10,
nine out of 10 of those were maybe
fraud, you know, some other stuff going
um really bad business plans or
whatever. So, we made the determination
we were going to go hard on investor
protection rather than capital for you
should go after it. Love to get your
perspective on um what's what are the
types of frauds that are you're seeing
out there? What are the trends and and
how are regulators dealing with it?
>> Yeah, thank thanks Mike. um uh on your
first the first part of your question.
Uh yeah, I mean I think it is still
right that um uh the UAE is is a leader
in this part of the world for um um
innovative, transparent um open to
business regulation for uh digital
assets. Um probably since you did your
your study did you say it was six years
ago?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Probably since you've done your
study um the field has has narrowed. I
think you're right to mention Bahrain um
described um by many people in the no as
a p pioneer um in this space. one of the
one of one of the first adopters of
licensing regulation. Um and they have
um they've kept up a pace with that and
I think even today um Bahrain is
considered also um a regional leader in
this space. Um look I mean governments
and bodies everywhere are tackling the
same issues and and coming up with
different approaches. Um some some are
some take the approach of I'm not going
to be hurried by this. let's see how the
markets develop. Let's trust our own
laws to be responsive. Um let let's take
it slowly. Others have taken the the UAE
and Bahrain approach, you know, let's
fasttrack regulation. Let's show the
world we're open to business. There's,
you know, there there's a huge there's a
huge range. Uh I think Qatar initially
um just didn't didn't were were not
comfortable with um uh um uh um digital
assets and crypto and and and pretty
much shut its doors. Whereas there's
been a complete change and turnaround
there now and in 2020 2024
um the QFA um has produced new modern
reg modern regulation to welcome uh
digital assets and and currencies. So
that's an example of a of a of of way in
your six year in your in the period
between your look six years ago and and
and now you would see a complete change
in that in that country. So that so
that's one example. Um uh um you you've
spoken about about um the US a little
bit. Um I I think most people still
think that the US I I know I know the US
has had this kind of um enforcement
[snorts]
not regulation approach historically. Um
I understand that. But you know in my
world some of the early cases that
relating to um how you should treat a
digital asset and whether it's whether
it's property or not some of those cases
did come out of the states. Um so it's
it's considered a really important um
presence in terms of regulation. It's
you know fascinating to see what will
happen um in in this new in this new era
of regulation especially for crypto in
the US. Um I've spoken a little bit
about the UK. Look other leading
jurisdictions around the world um uh uh
Singapore some of the earliest cases
came out of the Singapore courts and
they're very pro- regulation. Um Hong
Kong is um also pro- regulation is
having a good look now about how you
treat um the role of intermediaries
which is such an important um such an
important element in the transactions
that come before us when we get before
the courts. Um the EU was considered was
considered to be way ahead of everybody
else at one stage in terms of um the
regulation that had been produced but I
the perception I get is that it it
people think it's now been overtaken um
by other um regulators around the world.
Um and and of course some of the the
some of the key laws, the key
regulations that have been um brought
into effect that they're not they're not
in force in many of the EU states yet
because they have I think until next
year to to change their national laws.
So a huge a huge range um of regulation
and the approach of different
governments and bodies. Um which brings
me on to the second part of your
question
>> broad. Yeah, [laughter] cuz what do you
love if you're a follster? you don't
love regulation, transparency,
um uh um a documented record um uh uh
you love something where there's
uncertainty and I think um you you know
a lot of is written and spoken about
this but I think one of the challenges
for this space will be some
harmonization of legal frameworks across
the world because we are talking now
about digital assets that um can be
transferred anonymously. I'm delighted
to hear that actually it's not good to
transfer anonymously anom anonymously
and it's uh there's a lot to be said for
transparency and showing the world what
you're doing but I mean the truth is
that that these assets can be
transferred anonymously in some
circumstances at the click of a button
from one jurisdiction to another very
difficult to follow in certain
circumstances
um uh in from jurisdictions with
different rules and different
regulations that means means the upshot
of this is that this is a rich space um
for fraud um regulation and fraud risk.
I spoke earlier and you were very kind
to call it an interesting question but I
spoke earlier about um the legal
developments um that mean that digital
assets are treated as as as property um
and that is that is an important
development because when we're the sort
of cases that I do before the courts in
in this country um and elsewhere um they
are typically fraud cases
where we're chasing the money. It's a
it's a tracing exercise. Um we know that
we know there's we know there's been a
theft. We know that we know the assets
have gone. One of my first jobs is
always
get the money [laughter]
>> and don't wait until the end of a one,
two, threeear case to get the money when
there might be none left. Get it now.
Freeze it. Preserve it. Make sure it's
there. So I'm talking about freezing
orders, proprietary injunctions.
You can't get those remedies until it is
accepted in your legal system that these
digital assets are property,
>> right?
>> And and and clear jurisdiction for the
regulators because the regulators have
multilateral memorandum understanding
and work together. Yes.
>> Yeah. Around the around the world.
>> All of that won't work on like crypto
markets that could work on digital
asset, real world assets. But on
Bitcoin, you can't actually do that. You
can never do that. That's the core of
Bitcoin. So, a big part that people need
to understand, there's the crypto
markets that are unregulated. They'll
stay unregulated because you can't
really regulate the decentralized part
of crypto assets. And it's also some
some you know a bit of a culture
statement of younger generations where
regulators are coming to say our role is
to protect the customers and the
customers are saying Bitcoin is here to
help us protect ourselves from you the
government right so there's that
narrative of younger generations and
Bitcoin specifically saying this is
sovereignity this is my self
sovereignity this is my protection from
government, not not the need to be
protected by government.
>> Yeah. So, so Ada, I want to come back to
you. So, we've talked a lot about um the
UAE regulatory framework. Your firm, you
operate 11 different countries through
the GCC, India, Asia-Pacific region.
You've chosen to headquarter here and
and and put yourself in the
jurisdiction. Talk about how uh
particularly in Abu Dhabi, it has helped
you with your digital transformation.
>> I think so. Um um I mean this is a very
young country you know so it's it's it's
have 54 years of existence has a DNA of
of you know risk and and risk not in a
very negative sense you know it's it's a
risk and ability we it's it's a matter
that you know it's a trader mindset
every element every government body
every uh um aspect of of organization if
it is for the benefit of the people they
would always find a way to make things
happen you know so you around the world.
You know, you you you've seen the kind
of listing patterns that have happened
in this side of the world in the last
year and the kind of response that you
have got from from investors. It's
because the the element that you know
the government listens to the private
sector in a very close angle. They work
hand onand to find out was the first
country to bring out an AI minister in
2017 when pretty much nobody was talking
big about AI at that point of time. It's
the ability to see ahead of time and to
say that you know yes you know if the
wind is blowing towards that direction I
need to go there I need to dirty my
hands I need to see if if if things can
be written I need to bring a a
collective collaborative efforts so that
needs I need uh world to be here and the
reason another great reason for for any
organizations to be here is that when
you launch a product where else in the
world can you see a 140 nationality to
try out your products you know we have
uh 140 nationality residing here in UAE,
everybody behaving in a in a very
different pattern. And this gives an
organization such as us to really bring
out our product, find out these are are
how effective it is and how it is
responding to various nationalities, how
the the usage is happening and then take
it out. You know, whatever UAE is is is
creating. when UAE bought out uh its
first airline Emirates in in in early
70s and 80s you know it it it borrowed
its airline today it's the airline of
the world it connects the entire Africa
the central Asian continent the
subcontinent far east and also towards
the Europe and US you know it's it's
become one of the most influential
carriers of the world you know and that
has become a lot of uh element into
tourism side it has started to create
jobs it has given the ability to think
differently you know challenge the
status quo, you know, and I think so
that's all uh reasons for me to be here
and I think so it's it's it's a reason
for the world to be here.
>> That's great. So we've only got a couple
minutes left. We haven't even got to
stable coins. So I think we got one
minute for each of you. So your views on
stable coins in terms of we're seeing a
lot more use cases. What's still
promise? What has actually gotten
permanent uh in the use of stable coins?
And has it enabled other sorts of things
to happen? We'll just go down the line
one minute each. So, so I think that um
you know we we just recently hired the
treasur of Uber to join us as CFO and
and she said that in Uber they were
super excited about stable coins or
about the idea of stable coins because
again velocity of money especially in
our economy I mean we we we when we
think about technology what is
technology doing it's just accelerating
things that we do um so the velocity of
money with stable stable coin was very
exciting. Now, if you pair that again as
a publicly traded company, you don't
want everybody just to see everything
that you're doing. You don't want to see
who gets paid what payroll. So, this
idea of pairing stable coins with
privacy, I think will accelerate
accelerate the adoption of stable coins.
>> Great. I I think again here in the UAE
we're seeing obviously a huge inflow
also of expats of very wealthy experts
coming to the UAE. Uh so when we look at
our customer base here we see a lot of
customers coming from Asia from Europe
into our business here regulated by ADGM
and in many cases they're coming in with
their crypto to it Toro right so when
when you move around the world and
there's more and more movement of of
wealthy individuals around the world
crypto becomes a very simple thing to
use because you can use your stable coin
as as a retail individual whether uh
you're depositing funds into e Toro here
in ADGM or doing that in Australia or
Singapore. So again, stable coins are
already here. They're here to stay. It's
a $350 billion right now, mostly USD
now, very much accepted and promoted by
uh the the Treasury uh in the US. Uh so
it's definitely going towards tr
trillions uh and more countries are
going to join. and I just heard about
the new AED local stable coin that's
going to be launched in the next two
weeks. So, we're going to see more and
more development in that space.
>> Great. Joanne, thoughts on stable coins?
Well, um there's um uh there's just been
a a very recent decision just come out
of the DIC and related to stable coins
that the the the dedicated digital
economy court in the DIC um has just
given its first ever worldwide freezing
order and and it was a case in whether
um it was Tectrix whether um the
reserves which um were behind the stable
coin were moved from one jurisdiction to
the other allegedly um uh in breach and
um the the court very quickly granted um
uh a freezing order to uh to um o over
the reserve funds um as well as
extensive disclosure orders against
multiple parties. Um really the digital
economy court they're really flexing it
muscles in this space to say yeah we see
it and we're we're here to support.
>> Great. I mean um I mean as as my fellow
panelists said you know it's it's the
ability to go from 245 to 24/7 you know
the traditional rails just does not uh
cater you and it puts unnecessary cost
of fund onto the businesses so you know
usage of of stable coins for crossber
makes a lot of sense but I think so the
regulation is not caught up towards the
use case as still you know a lot of
larger developing uh uh countries have
still not caught up on those regulations
that that makes it difficult for uh
players such as us to use it on on those
kind of rails, you know. So, you know,
once the regulation catch up, this 350
could become 3.5 trillion, you know. So,
it's a matter of regulatory uh openness
to adopt uh those kind of rails.
>> Uh fantastic. We are we're ending
exactly on time. So Yuvallion, Joanne,
Adib, thank you so much for uh giving
your expert
