Please welcome the panel on algorithms
to outcomes, AI's impact in finance,
moderated by special writer at the Wall
Street Journal, Gregory Zookerman.
Afternoon. How's everybody doing?
A little louder, a little more
enthusiast. There we go. Little more
excitement there. I'm excited. This is
uh a great panel. What's sexier than AI
and making money from AI? not just sort
of theoretical plowing money into it and
hoping for the best someday. We're gonna
hopefully teach you or share some
experiences of people using it and and
making money from it. So, I'm really
thrilled to be here. I'm going to ask
everybody um maybe starting to my right
and going on down to introduce
themselves and tell us just a little
briefly about their firm in their own
words.
Thank you. So, my name is Mikazkovich.
I'm a managing partner for women. global
head of capabilities and we advisory
forum uh firm and we have been on this
genai journey for a long time now and
you know it's probably about a third of
our business so I'm happy to share the
experience.
Thank you. Thank you. My name is Omesh
Subraman. I'm the CTO for Citadel which
is a multi strategy hedge fund.
Hi everyone. I'm Katrina Pagley as the
chief legal officer for Panta Capital.
We um are crypto blockchain venture firm
and invest in all facets of the uh
blockchain industry.
Hello everybody. This is Daniel Melo. Um
I'm the co-founder of Freestone Grow
Partners. Um fundamental equity long
short investment firm. We actually had a
bit of a shared DNA with the mesh here
since uh both uh my co-founder Todd
Barker and I were at Citadel for many
years before starting this about what
two and a half years ago something like
that.
Andy Cruz. I'm the deputy chief
investment officer at Rockwant and the
CEO of Roquant Millennium Advisors.
Thank you. Uh I think both um Daniel I
think your mic might be a little low. So
um speak up if you could u so they can
hear you to overcome that challenge.
Okay. So I'm going to ask everybody to
share their experience with AI. What is
their firm doing? Um how far they've
embraced it? Um what kind of changes
have taken place over the past few
years? So we can kind of set the stage
as it were also starting to my right.
So happy to start. So you know this is
actually almost to the day where two
years ago we rolled out our own kind of
genai to all of the 85,000 people that
are part of Marshmlan and we designed
the thing. So we have two years of
experience of doing it using it and
probably like everybody else the first
layer is the foundational efficiency
layer. So we found lots of situations
where you know stuff that before that
would be difficult or expensive to do
we've done that because the adoption
half of our people have used it. So
that's layer number one. The second
layer for us is really creating the
impossible to make it possible. So when
you think about you know in our journey
it's all the take commercial due
diligence if someone wants to come to us
and you know about the investment we can
automate significant chunk of a journey
and do that a lot faster than would have
been possible and so that's probably 20%
just you know right there. And the third
thing to me is doing things that would
have been possible before. So take an
example of a of a journey uh take a
customer journey right I can think about
shopping marketing some of those
innovation things and that's all now
possible and you know I can have my
chatbot talk to a chatbot and you know
den to meet everything in the middle and
that's happening we've helped a bank
overseas you know get 15% more customers
40% bigger crossell
how
just discipline kind of approach to look
at it what is it the customers want
what's getting in the way and just
relent less likely kind of focus on
and you couldn't do that without AI.
No, that would have been expensive.
Impossible.
Okay, nice. All right. Um, so Citadel,
as I said, it's a multi-our hedge fund.
For the sake of this question, I'm going
to break Citadel into two big pieces.
One is quantitative investing and the
second is discretionary investing, which
is investing by people I'm going in and
out. Uh, by people who people who make
the decisions to invest. So in
quantitative investing um I would say
the following AI in the form of machine
learning has been used for the last 10
plus years. Okay with the development of
TensorFlow lot of data available for
quantitative back testing and investing
we put that like a week within
you can sh Oh it might be actually me
because I think I'm turning and that's
changing it.
No, that's okay. I think I'm good. Um I
won't turn much. So um so on the
quantitative side, machine learning it's
been it's been in use since 10 years.
Google came out with TensorFlow and
within like a week after that we put
that to use to make money. Now the
discretionary side is what's getting
interesting right now because there's a
lot of data, lot of documents, lot of uh
processes that can be made much faster
with AI. What we've done is accelerate
the time in which people who are making
decisions can get access to information
to be able to then make a timely
decision is where we are putting it most
to use. I think it is a little bit
underelling it. If we just call it
productivity, it's productivity plus
because you know it's going to take
hours and hours in a person's day to be
able to get with the right context to
the information that they need to make
an investment decision. With AI, it's
that much faster.
Yeah. Yeah, I mean I'll I'll echo that.
We don't have a quant um trading
strategy at Pantara, but from the
discretionary investment thesis uh
perspective, the venture team definitely
uses AI to sum to summarize information
to make sure that everything is is
digestible. And one of the things that
we are constantly having a conversation
about from the legal perspective is
making sure that we're using the AI
tools the appropriate way from like a
confidentiality perspective. So there is
like an interesting intersection between
the use case scenario and then kind of
from my seat as the attorney wanting to
make sure that we're doing it
appropriately. Um from my uh profession
actually I think it's been extremely
material in creating efficiencies from
an interpretation perspective. So if a
new regulation comes out or a new bill
is published they're usually extremely
lengthy. So a good starting point is to
use an AI tool to kind of summarize and
give you the highlights of it.
Obviously, you still want to have a
human read it and go over it, but it
does create like at least an initial
TLDDR on how what is exactly in front of
you. Um, it also has enabled us to kind
of go through legal documents more
efficiently. So, for example, some of
these tools will actually take these
100page fund documents that we work in
and make them significantly easier to
kind of maneuver in terms of, you know,
this definition is defined by that
definition, by that definition because
lawyers obviously make everything super
complicated. And it used to be that you
were flipping back and forth through all
these pages. Now you can kind of just do
a click and it'll summarize everything
for you. Um, and then the other thing
which is helpful is it actually can re
you can kind of teach the model what
terms you would want in a contract and
it can then receive the contract and
it'll actually flag it for you and do
the editing on your behalf. So uh it's
been a pretty uh efficient uh an
increase in efficiency for my
profession.
Excellent. Is this loud enough? I think
you're in the back. Yeah. Okay. Um I
guess I won't repeat a bunch of what um
we might have said since we like I said
come from shared DNA. So a lot of work
that's been going on for a long time on
the quantitative side. Um we've been
focusing a huge chunk of our effort when
we built the firm to have AI be
integrated into the discretionary sort
of investment process essentially from
day one. Right. So a bigger bit of an
advantage in it not being sort of a
bolt-on but something u that is sort of
just part of the platform day-to-day.
The thing that I want to highlight that
I think is interesting about the
discussionary bit is um when you think
about uh how AI tools are typically sort
of built um the vast majority of them
are sort of estimated trained um to
essentially be a uh a prediction tool
for what is the most likely thing that
comes next right so what is most likely
word phrase item uh out of that giant um
data set that has been fed into it right
and so when you think about it from the
investment point of view that feels a
little bit like you're asking for a
consensus consensus view consensus
opinion consensious next thing which is
clearly not what we want on the
investment side uh for a capture um you
want a differentiative view you want a
contrarian um uh capability in your
investors right and so one of the things
that we have found is that it is super
important to be very intentional around
what is it that you do with the tools
because you tend to be at risk of sort
of killing off the pieces where the
insight comes from right so
summarization is one of the things you
mentioned. Um, it's easy to say, "Hey, I
spent a whole bunch of time reading
documenters every day from every broker
that sends me stuff and I can save a
bunch of time by summarizing and feeding
me the bullet points, right?" And now
you're thinking, wait, how much of that
reading that I was doing was actually
leading to having some sort of nuance
insight because I pick up on something
on, you know, paragraph three on page
seven that is now no longer in the
summary, right? And so we we have found
that that it is super important to be
highly intentional about how the tools
are used as opposed to assume that just
because you can automate something or
make it easier um that that actually
will get it might get you more
productivity hours of the day, it's not
always it'll actually get you more
insight at least in in current form. So
it's something that we spend quite a lot
of time thinking about. Thank you.
Yeah. Uh so worldw in our case we were
founded in 2007 and ever since then AI
has been a key part of our investment
process and therefore we kind of view
this AI evolution more as a natural
progression of the quant discipline
itself. Ultimately we think of AI as the
intersection between statistics and
computer science which are two
foundational pillars of a quant
operation. Anyway, uh we all know that
AI is not new either. I think it's a key
theme at at um this particular
conference also in the years past and AI
goes back decades. Now there are
different types of um AI which have
evolved since then. You can think of um
supervised learning as one example. Uh
here you can think of linear regression
or um lasso techniques things that we
use on a daily basis. Then you have
unsupervised learning which aims to less
explain the known in data and more
discover the unknown in data. Then you
have deep learning which taps more into
the nonlinear multi-dimensional you know
complex uh modeling. And then you have
natural language processing which in
conjunction with LLMs now is super
powerful to actually make sense of a lot
of the unstructured data that becomes
available. And lastly obviously we have
generative AI which is a huge buzz word
these days which goes beyond analytics
of data and more into the content uh
creation. Now important to us is that
all of that all of those types of AI
provide us with a tremendous toolkit
that we can make available to our
researcher to our portfolio managers and
engineers and with that unlock a
tremendous amount of productivity
efficiency but most importantly
innovation. Now we don't think that AI
is replacing human judgment. I'm saying
that now. Let's see where we stand in a
year at now. Uh but it scales it and
with that we can really unlock a
tremendous amount of breath and scale
and and speed uh that our uh people can
can tap into.
Thank you Anthony. It's um we're very
lucky because everybody on the panel has
had real experience with AI. I thought
I'd drill into how much is overstated,
how much is hype, and how much AI will
revolutionize the world. I was at an
event last year at Milkin where Jeffrey
Katzenberg said it's more important than
the invention of electricity, more
important than much everything else,
industrial age, industrial revolution,
um, all kinds of things he compared it
to and said it's it's going to be more
important. Is that an overstatement? Are
we going to get to the point where it's
a true revolution or is it just a really
important tool that everyone's going to
need over the next few years? Uh why
don't we start with Andy and come back
down.
Yeah, I mean a lot of what we're seeing
at the moment in the AI evolution is
transformative. I mean LLMs and
generative AI in particular, they open
up doors which we didn't have before.
You know, just this interconnectivity of
uh technology able to talk with each
other is is is quite significant. You
know, think of it from a quant research
perspective. Hypothetically, if a
researcher could, you know, type in any
idea that comes to mind and that then
would trigger an AI agent to go out and
parse through massive amounts of data to
substantiate the idea to form a
hypothesis uh to scaffold the codes
needed to express the the signal and
then find the historical data to back
test that and then report back to the
researcher saying yes, you're on to
something or no, this is a dead end.
This opens up a tremendous amount of
productivity. um and a change of how we
operate from a research perspective. But
AI obviously when it comes to hype and
risk um can also be fragile in the wrong
hands. So there is obviously the the the
risk in the quant space to overfit
signals and AI has the potential to
exaggerate that. So without paying
attention uh to overfitting and the
risks coming with that uh it could be
dangerous since you can produce a
tremendous amount of noise rather than
signal. Um the explanability of AI can
be problematic especially when you deal
with nonlinear
uh models those black boxes which you
need to be able to to to explain and
know how to use what data to to feed in.
And then of course also the over
reliance in a algo or an AI model. You
know it's it's it's easy to just take an
out of the box AI algo feed in some
random data and then expect a greater
thing to come out on the other side but
without questioning it what's happening
in that black box or without ensuring
that the quality of the input data is is
very very high you you really um run
into the risk of of um achieving
something which is very
counterproductive.
Thank you.
Um, you asked the question as to whether
it's more important than electricity.
No, no, my question is, is there too
much hype? What's the reality?
Um,
um, I think there's probably too much
hype at least for parts of it. Um, but I
do believe it's going to be
revolutionary. Um uh in the spirit of
keeping it more narrow than you know AI
about all the things um I'm assuming
half the people here stay are here to
see Nvidia staying next um you don't
have to admit to that um uh I'm sure
some of that bigger thing will come up
there but in the context of asset
management um uh we do think that
there's been sort of uh two prior big
revolutions in how you think about asset
management um as a business right uh
number one huge changes in how the
business is done from essentially the
practical application of factor models,
right? How do you understand the
cross-section of returns as a way to
start to be more formal and discipline
around what bets are you taking? Is it a
thematic bet, a macro bet, you know,
idiosyncratic bet? And I think that was
very transformative in the um in the
business, right? It was sort of led to
the rise of what is now the very large
set of hedge funds I think uh in the
world. Number two, the explosion of
alternative data. Um the ability to sort
of have almost more than you could
possibly process about everything in the
world and um uh that took a long time to
sort of absorb um but it was
nevertheless very transformative. And
this last one um you mentioned nonlinear
modeling, right? So everything from
machine learning you know starting 15
years ago if not more to AI now the
ability to make sort of nonlinear
connections um and the ability to
process unstructured data um I think
will be transformative for the business
and I think it's
the businesses that sort of did well on
the first two steps you know the
platform the data the engineering the
people and the culture that is necessary
to incorporate all that new technology
and actually transform the business I
think are the same sort of people who
are likely to do well with this next
phase right because it's there's no
magic here, right? Like the reality is
you can't just say, "Oh, I have my AI
tool. Here's my data. Go do stuff,
right? It requires a huge amount of
handholding, management, you know, all
the concerns about overfitting and
where's the right usage." Um, we can't
it doesn't just happen, right? Um, but I
think in that context, it will be
transformative for people who are able
to sort of harness it in the right way.
Thank you.
Uh, I agree. Revolutionary. Um, I'm
going to come at it from a slightly
different perspective and let the other
panelists who know way more about
investing than I do kind of comment on
that. I think about it from just like
the real world use case in in all these
different kind of facets of our life. If
you think about it, AI has been around
forever and you don't even realize it.
Like when Netflix is recommending a
movie to you, like there's AI behind
that. Um, I think we're going to
continue to see more developments that
are going to kind of squeeze the
middleman out of the picture. So, if you
think about um Whimo, which is a great
example, if anyone has is in San
Francisco, highly recommend getting into
one of those self-driving cars. It's it
that is revolutionary to me. Um that's
going to continue to expand. I think
you're going to see, you know, they're
going to go that's just a great, you
know, one example, right? There's going
to be ways in which human interaction in
the middleman position isn't going to be
as necessary, right? Like a doctor
reading your your, you know, records or
whatever. there's going to be a bot
that's going to be able to do that
significantly more quickly and maybe
even more accurately and not have the
human error in there. Um, so I think in
just our day-to-day lives, we're going
to continue to see it and it's going to
eventually, I kind of think, be like
electricity where like you're not even
going to know it's there, but it is.
It's powering everything we're doing.
Um, but it's going to become such an
undercurrent to how we operate in the
future. Um,
yeah,
thanks.
I have to agree with the panel. I think
um I think we're at a moment in time
where we're going to look back and think
about this point in history and we're
going to be like wow we went through
that. I think there's something real
here. There's something deep that's
happening. I think uh but as we went
through we can just take oursel back to
the 2000 era like the dot boom right in
the middle of 2000. I was you know I was
I was working in Wall Street at that
time and you know the sock puck bit.com
stock price blew up and then it became
bankrupt and through that you know you
have the Amazon of the world coming up
now. So I think the internet era created
some really high amounts of productivity
and companies that are I mean the
biggest companies in the market right
now right I'm not saying that may or may
not happen in AI but I am saying that
there's something deep and fundamental
happening for the society
out of AI now let's take what it means
for us in this panel which is mostly
about investing
there's a big amount of passive
investing going on right now in the
market I don't comment on that because
I'm on the active investing side just
like Dan is and uh Andy is um
in the in the um Citadel basically our
culture drives towards hiring amazing
extraordinary talent who are
inquisitive, super curious, do a lot of
thoughtful work to understand how the
market is working and how to place our
bets.
At the end of the day, that talent pool
and that culture and the process that
actually drives that approach is going
to remain important and I don't think
that gets replaced or transformed by AI
in any near future.
Take it away.
I would just probably agree that I guess
I think about it we are probably at the
base of the mountain nowhere close to
the summit of the mountain. So I agree
it's overhyped but I also agree you know
it will absolutely have tremendous
impact. So why do I say that a lot of
things that we just discussed I put them
in the you know today AI is basically
automation with better branding it's not
bad it's we you know we can pick up a
lot of productivity productivity is
important but it also will be a
feasibility kind of machine so let me
give you an example that I've seen with
clients not in banking but I think it's
analogous to banking imagine you're
pharma company one of the things you
have to decide how are you going to bet
on R&D so today you pick particular
disease. You're going to hire the best
professor, some kind of researcher that
will tell you what are all the possible
mechanisms that could affect how this
disease happens and you're going to
place your bets in terms of drugs,
discoveries, all of that used to be
intensely manual massively kind of
expertise uh you know barrier kind of in
that we for a pharma company you can
build an AI tool that will do the
disease mapping for them. So now they
can load quicker. You can do it instead
of having the the person review all the
primary research literature, you can do
it, you know, in a month and you can
place your bets. That is massively
happening. There are a lot of analogies
like this in banking that are hidden
behind complicated deal structures,
regulations where that can now happen
and be lowered. So I think the economics
of finance is changing the
microeconomics and coupled with the
changing barriers, I don't yet know
fluid the possibilities, but that's
where I think the the truly exciting
things will be. Thank you. So in some
ways or many ways, finance had a head
start on every other industry when it
comes to AI. Jim Simons and Renaissance,
they were doing machine learning in the
1980s. And yet we're not at the point
I'm not familiar with any po any firm
that is all machine. It's all machine
plus man, man plus machine. Why not? And
that's and then there's a question that
came in that was a smart question that's
kind of related and maybe you can um
people everybody can address both these
two parts of the same question. Most AI
models this is from the questioner most
AI models in finance look backwards.
What frameworks are emerging that allow
us to model forward looking uncertainty
in real time and what are their
limitations in other words is one of the
the the challenges for us in finance the
fact that the world's always changing
it's hard to model the future. So that
inhibits um what we can do with AI. Uh
let me start. You want anybody? It seems
like you're eager to answer that.
Okay.
Um
look, that's an interesting question. I
think u some of our quantitative
businesses use the current data and
backward-looking data to be able to
project forward. So the question is
horizon, right? how long does a trend
continue and how far do I have some
level of conviction in what is going to
happen and can I use tools within a
toolbox to be able to project that so
like we've been statistical methods and
machine learning and AI is a way is a is
a set of ways to project forward so that
that remains applicable I think now um
on the discretionary side right I think
um several people have made the point
that the human judgment becomes very
important
the the human judgment is going to be
very levered,
right? And
looking forward and thinking about how
regimes are shifting and points of
inflection are happening in the in the
world of investing is exceptionally
critical to be able to make money as an
alpha
money maker, right? And those I think
while I think there's going to be a lot
of leverage in the system with AI as a
tool in the toolbox, I don't think it
changes what is making the decision.
Anybody else want to tackle though? I'm
sure.
Yeah. Um I can't help myself on the
first part which is
um the premise of the question that the
thing is backward looking is a little
weird because everything is we humans
are sitting here. It's not like we have
a crystal ball. We're still we're still
subject to our own past experience.
everything's backward-looking. So, yeah,
I'm not sure that I get the question,
but I but but I do think it highlights
an important consideration, right, which
is when we say that it's not
forwardlooking, there's something to be
asked about what do we mean by that
exactly, right? Where's that insight
come from, right? So, if you're if
you're a human who is good at sort of
thinking about what might happen next,
what the scenario might be, what the
macro conditions might be, I mean, what
Trump might say tomorrow, right? Um it's
not always that he knows. um
there's no magic there, right? There's
some human processes that are associated
with sort of making that subtle
connection that might allow you to have
a better heart rate than you know an at
least an existing machine, right? And so
I think the trick there is to ask the
question where does this insight come
from and what of that can I reproduce in
training the machine, right? And I think
part of the problem is we don't spend
nearly enough time actually being sort
of formal about really trying to analyze
where that insight comes from, right?
Like um in in in the typical
discretionary business, you hire, you
know, a portfolio manager, you know, she
goes and hires analysts, they have
associates that get trained. And for
most businesses, you just give them
capital and they do stuff, right? It's
kind of not clear how it all happens,
right? like somebody's good because the
P&L is good, but you don't really
understand where the insight comes from,
how the process is repeatable, are they
training their people or not? So, one of
the things that we spend a lot of time
thinking about is exactly that. Can we
get data about each of the steps that
somebody takes in that investment
process, right? So if you think about
you know building your financial model
uh you know going to a conference like
this and you know getting some sense of
what people are talking about uh you
know having one-on-one meetings with
management and trying to assess
management quality you know you go to a
factory tour and you take notes about
how the factory is working there's all
these steps right and I think you can be
formal about assessing what are those
steps how do they connect and are are
some people better some steps than
others can you train the next generation
in being good at best practices each of
these And as you learn that, you might
find that some of those pieces you can
say, well, actually, I don't need a
human for that stuff anymore because I
understand it well enough that I can now
model it. Right? I think that's how you
solve that problem
as opposed to assume that it'll just
sort of happen by magic from because the
LLM is better or whatever to state it to
to like pivot and state it somewhat
differently.
It's not about the AI trying to tell you
what the future is going to look like
because it cannot project. The question
really is, can you see the present
clearly and faster
with something like AI as one tool in
the toolbox? That's the real question.
Makes sense. Uh, okay. Let's talk about
the regulatory challenges, maybe even
ethical challenges and dealing with LPs,
with investors. Um, I have one question
here. I like to intersperse some of
these that I was going to ask something.
How do you reconcile the blackbox nature
of modern AI systems with regulatory
demands for explanability
uh especially in areas like credit
trading and portfolio risk and and how
do you reconcile it with just LPs who
kind of want to know what you're doing
and you can't really say I don't know
how do you explain well you know our
models told us to buy or sell is that
enough for LPS maybe today it is who
wants to tr want to talk about the
regulatory
yeah sure um I mean it's a hard question
right
On the one hand, what we tell LPs, we
want to be full and fair with our
disclosure. And there's a significant
amount of my time from a disclosure
perspective that we spend making sure
that anything we do from an investment
thesis perspective is clearly explained
and you have to answer those questions.
I don't think you necessarily need to go
into exactly what the model is and why
it made its decision, right? Like we
don't necessarily explain every single
detail of other aspects of our program
to the LPs. They rely on us to do it. If
somebody were to examine us, we'd
obviously have those conversations. But
as long as the LPs understand that it's
being that you have, you know, the
sufficient oversight and the the public
disclosures out there for them, I think
that kind of covers the LP perspective.
Um
the regulatory questions, the
confidentiality is is more uh tense to
me, right? Like you have these public um
sources out there where people are
putting potentially proprietary
confidential information and nobody
knows where it's going. Like that's the
black box to me that's more concerning.
I want to make sure that my traders and
the people at my firm are using the
right tools when they're when they're um
actually using the AI tools, but it's
really hard to kind of police it. And I
think there's a lot of work that needs
to be done from a tech perspective to
actually understand the AI tools that
are being used at the asset manager uh
level, right? Like if somebody goes on a
goes and puts something on a computer or
uses their own laptop, like it's hard
for me to know what exactly they're
putting in there. So, I kind of think we
actually need to build a little bit of
like scrubbers on top of these AI tools
to really understand what is going into
them. And then that also creates the
record of what we did and like maybe why
it produced an answer that wasn't the
right best answer in hindsight. Um, and
I think also for just like from an
administration perspective, we have this
crypto and AIAR that President Trump has
recently put in place. So, I think we're
going to see an increase in regulation
and legislation around AI going forward.
And I think that's going to drive a lot
of how the asset managers are going to
have to respond to it.
So I think on that we actually do a lot
of work in with the regulated banks in
the space and both you can make it more
efficient you can make it effective. I
would agree the regulation is a barrier
and it's something that hasn't caught up
but
because they don't have a full
understanding or
I think that's going to true with any
technology right and when it's new it
takes a while for the governmental
regulation to catch up and I also would
say today we're all system operators
right you now have a system you have
some autonomous agency you got to
control it so you have to design a
system that controls it I kind of like
the point you make we're designing
factories de facto we are used to kind
of managing people certain way that's
not enough. So now you have to create
control systems on top of these things.
That's doable. We have partnership with
a company called corridor platforms to
do exactly this. Anytime I you know
unleash these things, I can run 10,000
tests on any one of these things that
will tell me how it's going to behave.
It just it's system engineering
discipline that I have to apply to a
problem that used to be kind of artisal
before. So I think you know it's done.
We can do it and we've seen it done well
and I think that's where probably the
puck is heading. Look, there's a lot of
uh development in AI that's happening
that makes it less of a black box. Yeah.
Right. So you you it basically
attributes to you why it said what it
said in the write up. But if I take a
step back on your question,
you mentioned regulatory reporting and
the like. I think if you break down our
processes into two parts, there's
clearly a big part that has to be
precisely right.
Right. Um when I'm looking when at Cidel
we want to look at our risk numbers it
cannot be probabilistically right it has
to be exactly right
in terms of what you hold where the
positions are
yeah positions the risk for various
movements in the markets what's the
money up and down all that stuff is like
numbers it has to be precisely right or
operational function of trade matching
has to be precisely right like there are
certain set of activities that you know
if there were flaws in your architecture
and your systems and your true
operational processes. You might be
tempted to put an AI band-aid on top of
the real floss and not address that.
There the problem is you need to really
address a problem to get precise answers
when you need with precise questions.
There are other areas when you have a
probabilistic
range of acceptable answers and the
speed of getting that answer which is
more right than wrong quicker is of
importance.
So I think that's how at least for me it
breaks down in distinction. That's
helpful. Um, let's talk about talent for
a little while. Um, how are you changing
how you hire? Are you looking for
different kinds of people? Um, there was
a question about the impact of AI on
jobs that you're already seeing. And I
want to call up a tweet yesterday from
the CEO of Fiverr, the um, online
platform. He said, it's kind of scary.
He said, here's the unpleasant truth. AI
is coming for all coming for our coming
for your jobs. Heck, it's coming for my
job, too. This is a wakeup call. And he
went on and on. Programmers, designers,
but other areas, too. Data scientists,
lawyers, customer service. Yeah, it gets
scarier. So, I'll stop. I'll stop there.
But, um, how are you seeing the impact
on on jobs in terms of value hiring? And
are we all at risk?
Sure.
Sure. Yeah. Throw it my way. Uh, look,
I'm an optimist. Somebody mentioned kind
of comparison of this thing to internet
which I kind of agree it's a general
purpose technology in 1993 we had
spreadsheets we had internet all of that
and everybody's worried about like you
know will finance all these things go
away there are no more people working in
finance today than there were 1993 so I
think we have an infinite capacity to
invent jobs that's not to say the jobs
are the same but we will invent new
things
now having said that this thing will
affect a lot of the existing jobs we are
still hiring uh I think some of the
skills
as much as it used to
yeah I think some of The skills will
have to evolve. That's that's a given. I
do think that I think we need to make a
separation between jobs and tasks. A lot
of tasks could now be done better,
cheaper, faster through machines. But
how we recompose tasks to jobs will
change. What I do today is very
different to what I was doing 20 years
ago. And I think it's probably true for
all these businesses. So that I think
will have to change.
And I want to take that task to job and
take from job to career. Right? When we
employ people, we're giving them
careers. We we evaluate them for their
true curiosity and their problem solving
ability. That doesn't change. Uh the
fact that AI is a tool in the toolbox
gets them more leverage to be able to do
more is what's really happening. But
that's not true. It's specifically true
for AI, but it's always been true for
any technology that we roll out, right?
um we can do things faster, quicker,
better, more accurately with tools in
the toolbox including AI. So I think
it's more um okay on the margin is what
we're doing changing yeah but it's on
the small margin we are hiring data
scientists and
AI professionals in our in our four
walls to be able to embed them in the
various groups in the various businesses
to understand and optimize the various
investment workflows. We're doing that
right but we did that when cloud showed
up right uh we we wanted to understand
how people used the cloud best we got
that talent from outside we also learned
it from inside and then let that go
um so to answer the first question
personally it has not changed my hiring
I mean I just lawyers aren't like the
the profession that you're probably
going to like really test for in terms
of AI usage from a job perspective it
does give me significant concern however
for the development of more junior
junior lawyers because I think some of
the easiest things that AI can do for us
is the manual tasks that you have to do
kind of in the early stages of your
career and I think that forms how you
operate as an attorney as you get
further along in your career and I do
worry what the next generation of
attorneys is going to look like when you
know 5 10 years from now they've all
relied on AI to do initial drafting and
editing and summarizing of materials and
they haven't actually spent the time to
do it themselves.
Yeah. And like I think about that and
I'm like maybe I just need to reframe my
thinking. Maybe that is the future of my
profession. Maybe it actually is a thing
where you you develop based on something
else and maybe we don't need people to
do things like that anymore. I have a
hard time conceptualizing that and maybe
I just need to reframe the way that I
think about it. But I do think that you
know I think lawyers were mentioned in
the tweet you said as well that we're my
profession is one of the ones that I
think is pretty easy to replicate in an
AI tool the things that we do. And I
think we're not the only ones, but I do
think that's a pretty easy use case to
see where the development just may not
be what it looked like when I was early
on in my career.
Yeah. Um, you know, jobs have been
replaced forever, right? Like we we no
longer have switchboard operators and
data entry people and the industrial
revolution came for people's jobs,
right? Like I don't think that's
especially new. Um,
so I think the the I think the panic
today is more driven by the fact that
the kinds of jobs that seem like they're
now being replaced felt safer, I think,
from from sort of previous uh versions
of job replacement. But I don't think it
makes the dynamic terribly different,
right? I think you um you can still
adjust to how you take advantage of that
technology and even if that means that
certain tasks or jobs change, that's
part of essentially taking advantage of
it, right? Um, I also think that there's
sometimes too much of a black and white
view around
how to think about some of the effects.
Like for example, um, hey, young people
might not have the opportunity to do the
somewhat more wrote task as part of
learning. But my answer to that is if
you think that's good learning, you can
still have them do it.
Even if the machine could do it better,
you can still ask your associate to do
it for a year. What's the problem,
right? Like that's training, right? So
I think we're all a bit too panicked
about it, frankly. Um, on the hiring
side in particular, I think it does
require for you to be more intentional
about what are you testing for? Um, it's
easy in a lot of hiring processes to
test knowledge or ability to use a tool,
right? Like can you write this bit of
code? Can you use do you know this
regression technique or you know can you
use XYZ version of an LLM tool?
Who needs knowledge when you have AI?
Yes. Or you know do you know XYZ case?
you know guys um
and I think it does require you to start
thinking about switching for your
ability to ramp up into the usage of new
tools right so instead of asking the
question do you know this answer or do
you know this tool how what sort of
questions can I ask and what sort of
conversation can I have so that I know
that this person has the level of
judgment and capability to figure out
how to use the next one not the current
one um you know we've been doing
something like this for a long time in
our hiring citadel uh I think uh does
the same but it's necessarily easy,
right? Especially if I have to hire a
lot of people, it becomes easy to sort
of make it more of a process, right?
Test for this, test for this. There's
this, you know, trick question that you
ask and see how they answer it. Um, and
so I think it does put more load on
being intentional about what it is that
you're looking for when you hire, but
again, I'm not sure that that's
necessarily about AI. You probably
should have hired like that anyway. It
just I think makes it more obvious that
you need that these days.
Anyone take that?
Yeah. So our approach to hiring talent
has not really changed fundamentally. Uh
we don't view
uh machines versus humans as a
competition. We view it more as a
partnership and we continue to hire
talent that knows how to make the best
use of advanced technology and with that
I think we can achieve a multiplier
effect when it comes to the output that
is possible. Now Roan's approach to
hiring talent is kind of one of the
unique features of our organization.
Anyway, we have at the moment about 28
offices in in 17 countries. We always
believe the talent is global. Uh
opportunity is not. So, we continue to
hire uh where we see you know top
universities and then get the best and
brightest directly out of school and we
we train them to become uh quants who
can work with AI quite effectively. Now
the skill set that is required for that
of course includes a strong academic
background but also certain degree of
adaptability and multi-disiplinary
uh views uh to really make the best uh
use of those uh technology that become
available. Um so yeah uh no change in in
our hiring efforts and uh we do believe
that humans will need to go alongside
the machines for now at least.
Yay humans. Um, I want to see a show of
hands. How many people have a young
person in their lives well educated,
capable, just having trouble finding a
job?
Not that many. Okay, I'm hearing
anecdotally, but the data from this room
suggests that panelists that's that's
what you're reflecting. It's not
affecting hiring as much as maybe one
would have expected. Um, so I have a
question related to two two there are
two questions here that have come in
about practical use of AI in your firms.
Examples, ways that either it can help a
PM or strategies. I think there are
people trying to get more comfortable
with AI in their firms maybe what are
the lowhanging fruit you can suggest?
What are some advice maybe you can give
people trying to ramp up? Where would
you focus and maybe where wouldn't you
focus within your firms if you're you're
rolling up your sleeves? you want to
tackle that one?
So maybe kind of give it I'll try to
give you in three categories. So there's
the base layer where I see lots of
things where you can now use machines to
do things that previously would be only
in the realm of human classy example
coding translation you know production
of copy communication type things of
that nature we do it we can see a lot of
the impact and fundamentally we used to
have troubles hiring enough people to do
that now we can do it a lot cheaper so I
think that's good in the second category
to kind of closer to the strategy thing
we see a lot of things that you couldn't
do before so as an example I and build a
digital twin of an entire business and
that's probably more of the classic AI
predictive kind of it's tested it's all
of that and that might take a decision
that would take a business three months
to do I can take it to about a one week
and maybe I need 200 people doing that
accountants financial planning people
strategist operations people and I can
put Genai on top of it as an interface
and now I'll get it overnight and in so
doing you know for this client we did
you found billion dollars in impact
right and he took it from you know
something to three months to overnight
and massive optimization. So there are
things like this that are possible that
literally you could not do before and
maybe the next stage to me is how do you
do this all end to consumer? So now do I
can I reimagine the whole thing and do I
really need to go through bunch of
things or can I just have my AI you know
for example take your personal life you
take your iPhone and now the AI can tell
me everything about for this transaction
I should use this card I should you know
get all your loyalty con frankly the
chatbot can even call up all the lines
all of that so I think that's not
possible and the only limiting factor is
imagination on that side mi any
practical advice you have for people?
Sure. Um I know we do the same thing
that you Katrina you mentioned uh which
is extracting terms out of the document
type stuff. That is a that's one um but
let's imagine the life of a equity
portfolio manager. Okay. And an an or
you're an analyst um in an in a
portfolio group. Okay. You have a
coverage of stocks
30 40 stocks 50 stocks whatever the
number is 80.
you are going to be bombarded with news
filings, transcripts,
um, research articles,
not just for the company that you cover,
but up and down the supply chain, right?
So, you're you need to know how this
company's going to perform based on
another company that's going to buy from
this and if they are producing more of
that and this is the produ, you know
what I'm saying? like the the surface
area of the amount of information that
you want to really consume
is very large.
Yeah.
Okay. So now the things that we can put
AI to work is to be able to get with the
right context the right kind of
information in front of you fast. So as
we at Citadel we fine-tune our
investment workflow to a place where it
is the flywheel is faster right and then
to make that go faster in the world of
like so much information coming at you
and I think Dan made the point of
alternative data there's a lot of
alternative data that is available and
AI is specifically good at
categorization right better than in many
ways better than humans actually you
just get this unstructured data you get
this random text and it can tell you
that this particular purchase is at this
location at this place which does a
phenomenal job.
So in places where we can leverage AI to
do things like that to be able to get
the information to the person making the
decision faster in concrete ways like
what I just said you know we have a
chatbot you know you can talk to it
that's the other thing I want to say
human beings prefer to talk and ask more
than click click click
right um so to the extent that you can
present a more intuitive interface for a
human being to ask questions and get
answers
AI is one way in which you can make that
happen.
Does Ken Griffin use AI?
Oh, he uses Chat GBD.
He uses Chat GBD. Nice.
Um, so aside from what we talked about
already with the document summarization,
um, I think the way that the investment
team uses it mostly is um, kind of
summarization and information gathering.
So in crypto for example crypto Twitter
is a very big thing and information will
come out on Twitter before it hits any
sort of Bloomberg feed and so we're
constantly just monitoring information
there. There's actually tools that will
scrub Twitter for you, summarize things
and give you real-time information about
like a project launch or whatever it is
that you've trained it that you want to
focus on. So it's significantly quicker
at information gathering for the
investment team than a human would be.
Um, and you know, for me it's it's it's
everything from document review,
summarization to even just production of
documents. You know, I could easily go
into chat GBT and say, I need a, you
know, an employment agreement. Here are
the details and something will come back
to me. Uh, you do still need the human
element in all of that, right? Because
you obviously need to adjust things and
I've never had anything come back to me
after a prompt that was perfect and you
always kind of go back and do your own
thing. Um, but I do think it kind of
gives you a really great basis point to
start at. Um, I know some other uh use
cases is drafting of emails and blogs.
And again, it just kind of gives you
something to start with where you're not
actually drafting it from scratch
yourself. And it could save you a
significant amount of time just to have
a baseline of something to go in and
edit yourself. And it pulls all the
information from different places. And
it actually is, I found it really
incredible in terms of saying, you know,
give a person's name and give me a
summary of them. and they pull
information from all over the internet
in terms of, you know, how they can
actually describe it. So again, like
it's just such a time efficient.
Did you do that about us?
I'll draft your bio afterwards.
Um, in the spirit of not repeating some
of the uh similar things around uh you
know being able to process a larger set
of information, things that automate,
one of the things that I guess I would
highlight um since you asked practical
advice, right? Um, I think it's
important to spend a little bit of time
thinking about how the team's culture
that you've building sort of fits the
use cases that you have for the tools
that you have. Right? We were having
this conversation earlier at the prep
room about note-taking. I take a lot of
notes. A lot of people take notes. You
don't actually have to take notes,
right? I'm sure there are people here
that are recording the meeting. It'll
get transcripted and somebody will get a
summary of it, right? Um, and that's
great. There are many reasons why that's
good, right? You want a database of your
transcripts. You want to make sure that
it's accessible, searchable, easily
usable for people. There's also quite a
lot of body of literature on the
behavioral psychology that says that
taking notes, exercising that fine motor
skill while you're listening to
something helps recall. It helps
learning and significantly improves
people's ability to make uh linkages
about the stuff that you heard, right?
And so there's an interesting question,
right? You could you could record every
meeting. You could have it transcribed.
You can have it in the database. Huge
advantage. You need to have sort of a
cultural appreciation that you also need
to teach your people to actually still
pay attention in the meeting.
Yeah. Right.
Danger. Yeah.
Um and there's a lot of things that have
this flavor where it becomes easy to
assume that because you can automate
something, the rest will take care of
itself, right? The way people use it,
the culture you build around it, and it
just sort of doesn't, right? So one of
the I guess practical advice I would
have is that you always want to allow
yourself a bit of extra time to think
about okay we've automated this we
deployed this tool we have this chat
that now has better answers how are
people using it is it the proper use is
it the use you want as part of your
culture that sometimes you have to do a
lot of work on actually in many cases
far more than the actual tool itself
I want to double down on that point I
think that's a really important point
that Dan just made is like really
monitoring how people are using it
there's a line where if you are you know
transferring the judgment to the AI and
like tool and then not actually doing
the job that you're supposed to do and
creating the judgment where you are
you're susceptible to some intellectual
laziness and complacency and that is
dangerous
yeah makes sense and you want to add or
no
yeah I mean I don't want to repeat what
has been said already I think the
lowhanging fruits definitely include
things like code completion debugging
which is very time consuming especially
in a quant sense
at worldw 85% of our people code on a
daily basis. So you can imagine what
efficiency gains that brings. Um
research uh summarization
um meeting notes and action items that
can be derived is another example. But
you know what excites us is probably
what's beyond the lowhanging fruits and
what can we do with AI as part of um uh
our research process and especially when
it comes to to the data science aspect
of our process as quant data is the fuel
that goes into the engine and uh I think
as we've heard before you know
unstructured data is becoming available
all around us on a daily basis be it you
know images text video imagery
Um and most of that is uh off limits
almost for quants because it's so
unstructured. Now this latest iteration
of LLMs and and generative AI changes
that so all of a sudden we have the
ability to bring structure in
unstructured data and with that uncover
new sources of alpha which we can put
into our research process and then
monetize on the other side. So things
like that uh plus uh the advances in
LLMs and what LLMs can do to generate
new signals almost independently is what
excites us much more than the lowhanging
fruit.
Um Warren Buffett announced his
retirement this past year, past week.
I'm curious if there could be somebody
like that and I'm going to invite
people. This is your last chance to ask
questions by the way. Um, can there be
someone today who opens up an annual
report and flips through it and comes to
a decision and invests longer term? It
seems like everybody's sort of much more
short-term oriented. Is there some alpha
maybe in going the other direction and
and or or is that just an impossibility
to invest like Warren Buffett today?
Anybody want to tackle that one?
That seems like a dangerous.
How about going longer term is maybe one
of the lessons that everybody short I
mean all the stuff we're talking about
it's about digesting I think to some
extent short-term information what's
happening today maybe reacting to it
pretty quickly is there some opportunity
maybe for us all of alpha in the longer
term horizon or or not necessarily
wow maybe I'll start a little bit I
actually do think that the long-term
thinking and some of that will help
because I think a lot of look we talk
about automation we talk about
increasing speed but in some case that's
going to get competed away. There is no
sustainable advantage in either one of
those. So you just have to make sure you
don't fall behind.
Yes.
So then you come back think about how do
you create what's a company if not a
system system of taking people to
generate some output and I think now you
got to throw you know machines in the
middle of that kind of factory design
and like some of the points you said and
I think we need to figure that out and I
do think that building those
capabilities I think they do compound. I
don't think you're gonna win by being
necessarily the fastest. Not in finance,
maybe other industries in tech, but in
finance,
it's going to be more are you focusing
on the right outputs and are you
designing the entire company system
culture, not just the hard but soft in a
way that's compatible driving to the
outcomes that you want and I think
that's actually hard for finance because
you're bringing almost manufacturing
logic to financial services. You're not
used to it. So it's a you know but I
think we'll figure that out. You can
probably have a lot of advantage in
that. So I don't know if I have an
answer to your question but I have a
maybe a thought exercise if you will
right. Um
so if you if you really
I'm just going to take your question as
AI is the investor.
So for a system to be able to make
investments and we do that in our
quantitative uh business you need to be
able to go back and back test and make
sure that things are
of with high reasonable confidence what
you see is what you're going to see. I
think uh Andy made the point on back
testing versus overfitting. There's all
these risks. So whether AI can do that
and then train itself to do that and
then predict going forward I don't know.
I don't like there's a risk there.
There's there's the obvious risk, but
let's turn it around and basically say
that there is such a business and
there's such a large part of active
investing somehow becomes the world that
you're you're potentially describing,
right? If that were to exist,
you would everybody would know what it
would do.
So what then is alpha is the question.
Wow.
Right? So if you think about it that
way,
there is always somebody trying to
develop an algorithm to do something.
The question is, is that longlasting?
And if it becomes more prevalent and
aware, would where does the alpha truly
live? And are the people that are going
to be at the frontier going to out
innovate that? So that's where human
beings come back in in my opinion.
Nice. Uh any weigh in or I can ask
another question?
We'll get to the next one. Five minutes
left. Um I'm curious about older
employees uh in your organizations. What
steps can you do? Have you have you
taken sort of get them to embrace,
encourage them, uh init initiate things
as it were? Anybody have good experience
uh doing that? Any any
I mean I think I'm the old person in my
organization that they're trying to
convince to use it more.
How do you come around? Um, you know,
it's I I have struggled with like what
my use cases are and have gotten
increasingly more comfortable with it,
but I definitely have gone to the more
junior folks on the team and just like
tell me how you're using this stuff.
Like I don't understand it. One, I need
to understand it from an oversight
perspective, but also I it has made my
job significantly easier and more
efficient for the reasons that we've
been discussing for the last hour. Um,
but it's not in my nature to go to AI as
my first tool. And I think I need to
reframe my thinking to stay kind of
modern and up to speed with everyone
else around me. So, and I think it helps
being in crypto because I am surrounded
by folks who make me the older person in
the room and like I'm there always, you
know, forward-looking from a tech
perspective and I think it's also the
nature of our industry more so than
other traditional finance firms. Like I
come from a long line of traditional
finance asset managers like Citadel and
now that I'm at a blockchain firm, the
amount of technology that we're using
and just the innate nature of using more
tools to make our jobs more efficient is
significantly more around me than I
think it had been at prior shops. So I
think it's kind of interesting to be to
answer your question. I am that person.
Real life example right there. Anybody
else?
I think we're all the old employee.
Yeah.
I must we all qualify. Yeah.
Um, yeah. Look, my my general experience
um has been in lots of different places
that I don't know that older employers
quote um have any issue in picking up um
uh new technology, whatever their new
technology uh is. I think the bar is a
little higher because they have so much
more experience, right? So you you you
learn to do a thing in a way that worked
and so I think it's less about you
somehow can't do the ne thing but more
you find yourself having a higher bar
for replacing something that you know
works right um but you know the best
mechanism to do that is you show that it
works like people do respond to
incentives right um so we find that um
uh at least I don't believe we've we've
worried about that very much at all
right because once you deliver something
that works. You kind of have to use it
because it works right. It's I don't The
beauty of the technology is that the
the back end behind it, the training is
what is complicated. The front end, the
user interface is really really simple.
Right? So that is the
that's part of the appeal.
That is the appeal. That is the beauty
of this entire thing is that it makes
something so complex
so easy to use.
Right? So no one has an excuse not to
embrace it.
All right. With that, um, thank you.
Let's all thank the panel for their time
and their insight.
Thank you for having us. Thank you.
[Music]
