Imagine two friends launching their
start-up in the same year.  They had the
same brilliant idea, imposed the same
infernal 80-hour work week on themselves,
and sacrificed exactly the same
savings.  Yet, 5 years later,
one is on the cover of Forbes after
selling his company for a fortune while
the other is in bankruptcy proceedings
riddled with debt.  So, what
happened?  What fills that
immense gap between what you're
truly worth and what you end up getting
?  If we ask this question to
science, we are faced with a
paradox.  Take all the
physical and mental capacities of humanity.
QU, reflexes,
work capacity.  If we map this data,
we systematically obtain the same
graph, the famous bell curve,
the normal distribution.  It tells us one
simple thing, the vast majority of us
crowd into the center, but above all, it
proves that humans are biologically
limited.  No one can run at 1000
km/h.  No one can work 400
hours a week.  However, if we
superimpose on this the curve of
absolute success, namely revenue,
notoriety and historical impact, the
model collapses.  The bell curve disappears
in favor of a so-called Pareto law, an
exponential line where a
tiny fraction of individuals monopolizes almost
all of the results.  Hence the paradox:
since it is physically impossible to
work a million times harder than
someone else and biologically
impossible to have a brain a million
times more powerful, how can
strictly limited human capabilities
generate such
unlimited success?  The answer can be summed up in one word:
luck.
However, rest assured, the purpose of
this video is not to tell you
that you are doomed to be at the mercy of
luck.  Because after poring over
decades of scientific literature and
running our own
computer simulations, we discovered that
luck is not a blind lottery over
which we have no control.
It's an equation, an equation that
rests on three fundamental pillars.
While the first pillar certainly defines
the world in which we live and
we have no control over it,
the other two are
concrete levers, skills proven by
science that allow you to
mathematically influence the probabilities in
your favor.  So, here is the anatomy
of luck.
To attack this first pillar, we must first
clarify a huge confusion.
In everyday life, we use the words chance
and luck as synonyms, but they
are two radically
different things.  Chance is
pure randomness.  It's the fact that the
roulette wheel lands on red.  It's the
weather or whether you were born in one country
rather than another.  This is the
game board and it is 100% uncontrollable.
Luck is the human interpretation
that we attach to chance when it
suits us.  In short, chance
deals the cards blindly.
Luck is just the story we tell ourselves
once we've looked at our
hand.  But what is the actual role of
chance in our success?  To
measure its weight against talent,
researchers subjected our society to a
computer crash test, a
model of 40 years of human life
which earned them the IGN Nobel Prize in
2018. And for this video, we
recreated their simulation.
And to do this, we relied on a
pretty awesome tool, Mammoth AI.
Mamoutay is a French start-up
that brings together in one place all the
best on the market such as GPT, Claude,
Mistral, Géini or Perplexity in
their most recent versions.
The huge advantage is that we can
use Shakia for what she does
best.  For example, to help me code
today's simulation, I gave
preference to Claude, who is formidable in
programming.  To help me
analyze complex studies, I
switch to G mini Pro.  And to analyze
the data from the chain, I use GPT
Synking.  And on a daily basis, you can
select less energy-intensive models
for your simple tasks in order to
reduce your digital footprint.
Personally, I really like Mistral Light,
but my favorite feature is
the reprompting tool.  If the Nia's response
disappoints you, you can send it with one
click to other models to compare
their responses.  All this with
total confidentiality.  Mamoutay does
not stop your browsing, does not
link to your data, and you
can delete your history at any
time.  The icing on the cake is
the price.  Subscriptions start from
€10 per month.  Not only is it
much cheaper than having
multiple accounts, but it's
often cheaper than subscribing to just one of
them. If you want to try Mamotay
for yourself, the link is in the
description.  A huge thank you to them for
making this video possible.  But
now, let's get back to our simulation
and let me explain the
rules to you.  The rules are simple.  We
generate 1000 virtual agents with the
same starting capital.  Then we
assign them a talent level distributed
according to a bell curve rated from 0 to
1. In this video, talent
represents the personal ability to
seize an opportunity through
intelligence, skill,
competence, or hard work.
Finally, we let our agents live
for 40 years.  Along their journey, they will
encounter events in a
purely random manner.  If an agent suffers an
unlucky event, their capital is
divided by; if they encounter a
lucky event, their talent comes into play.
The computer then draws a random number
between 0 and 1. If this number is
lower than the agent's talent score,
it's a success and he doubles his
money.  Otherwise, he misses the opportunity and
gains nothing.  The result?  As predicted
after 40 virtual years, the
distribution of wealth no longer follows
the talent curve, but has
transformed into Pareto's law, with a
tiny handful of agents amassing a
colossal fortune.  But the most fascinating thing is
not that, it's the profile of its winners.
Intuitively, one imagines that geniuses
sit at the top of the curve.  Well,
not at all.  Look at this graph.
The x-axis indicates the level of talent
and the y-axis represents the
final capital.  We then notice that the
winners are systematically
agents with merely above-average talent
but who have benefited
from the luckiest trajectory.
In our top 20, the average talent score is
capped at 0.70.  As for the big
winners, they have a score of 0.81.
The most talented individual finished
93rd.  Struck by
successive misfortunes or simply deprived
of opportunities, his immense talent did
not have enough raw material to
convert into success.  The conclusion is
therefore indisputable.  Chance is
absolutely necessary for immense
success, but without talent, it spins its
wheels.  And that's the whole subtlety.
To land in the top 10, you
absolutely must possess
above-average talent.  However,
the reverse is not true.  Being
talented is far from guaranteeing you a
place among the winners.
Let's take Warren Buffett, one of the
richest men in history.  He
himself admits that he succeeded primarily thanks
to chance.  If he had been born a few
centuries earlier or in a country at
war, his exceptional talent for
investment would have been of no use to him
.
I get paid off enormously credit to me.
I mean I just I just was lucky at birth.
His immense fortune was based first and foremost on
a massive initial stroke of luck which he
calls the ovarian lottery.  To be born in the
right place, at the right time, a man
in a capitalist system that values
finance.  And to better understand
the importance of this environment, the
researchers created a variant of the
simulation.  In rich or
favored countries, the ratio of
lucky and unlucky events is not
5050. It is 80% opportunities
thanks to infrastructure,
financial aid or education for only
20% obstacles.  Conversely, in a
precarious country, opportunities fall to 20%
for 80% of obstacles
due to crises, health failures
or instability.  So here, we are using
countries as an example, but in reality, this
principle applies at any
scale.  What matters is whether you are
working in a
stimulating environment or not.  And the results of the
simulation are striking.  In
a stimulating environment, the system
becomes more meritocratic.  The abundance
of opportunities allows
talented individuals to shine.  The average
talent score of the top 20 rises to 0.74 and the
big winner has a score of 0.83.  Overall,
the entire population becomes richer and the
most skilled individual in simulation
achieves a very respectable 83rd place.  His
talent found the material to
express itself.
In an unfavorable environment, however
, it's a disaster.  Everyone
ends up much poorer.  The winner
comes away with a talent barely
above average and the top 20 is
capped at 0.65.  As for the most
talented, deprived of opportunities, he
collapses to 646th place.  Since
opportunities are too rare for
talent to really make a
difference, the end result looks
more like our
initial bell curve.  The economist Branco
Milanovic has quantified this injustice.
Faced with such a situation, 20% are tempted
to give up and
conclude that work is pointless.   Well, that's
not the case.  Talent
remains essential.  The real lesson
of this variant is that the more
precarious an environment is, the more
chance dictates the rules, and the more favorable it is
, the more talent regains its
rights.  Whatever happens, chance does
not negate merit.  Without work,
this boost would be
completely useless.  If we take a
step back from everything we have just seen,
the great lesson of this first pillar
becomes self-evident.  We cannot
control the wind and we are far from
all starting with the same boat.
Chance is there, it is sometimes unfair and
it is by definition uncontrollable.
But there is one thing we have
power over, and that is our number 2 pillar,
the exhibition.
Exposing oneself is a proactive action.   It's
time to
mathematically increase one's contact area
with probabilities.  Imagine that you
own a field and the sky rains down
meteorites that represent
life events, lucky or
unlucky.  Well, the
wider your field of view, the more
meteorites you catch.  But
in practical terms, how do we expand this
field?  To understand it better, we're going to
do a little test together.  We are going to
reproduce a famous
psychological puzzle, the Dunker's candle problem
.  The experiment is simple.
Imagine that you are placed in a room
with a candle, a box full of
thumbtacks, and matches.  Your mission
is to fix the candle to the wall so that
it can burn without the wax
dripping onto the floor.  But before you
try to solve that, watch this
short excerpt.
OK, let's go.  Pause the video
and when you think you have found
the solution or you want to
give up, restart the video.
Well, all you had to do was
empty the box of thumbtacks, fix it to the
wall with a thumbtack and use it
as a small shelf to place
the candle on.  If we showed you that short,
funny clip just before, it wasn't
for nothing.  Without knowing it, you
were part of group A of
the experiment, the so-called happy mood group
.  In the actual
scientific study, this group achieved a
spectacular success rate of 58%.
For what ?  Because positive emotion
literally broadened their scope of
thought.  Conversely, group B,
which had been put in a stressed mood,
collapsed with only 30%
success.  Under the effect of stress, their
brains experienced a blockage known as
functional fixity.  The
participants tried desperately
to pin the candle directly into
the wall or to melt the wax to
stick it on.  They were unable to
see the box as anything other than a
simple bedbug container.  But the
conclusion of this study is even
crazier.  Being in a good mood doesn't make you
think faster.  All
participants who solved the puzzle,
whether in group A or B,
took exactly the same time, about 4
minutes and 30 seconds.  The difference
is that without this open-mindedness,
you simply can't succeed.
Your brain is missing the
solution.  This expanded field of reflection
is precisely what allows us
to accumulate resources,
skills and relationships.  You
suddenly notice
hidden doors that others don't see.
But once we see these doors,
what do we do?  While doing my research,
I came across a very
interesting concept in decision theory.
The dilemma between exploitation and
exploration.  To exploit is to remain
safe, it is to capitalize on what
we already know how to do.  Exploring means
pushing open doors, investing
energy, time or money
in a path where the return on
investment is completely unknown.
Whether it's learning a discipline out of
pure curiosity or accepting an
invitation to a party where you don't
know anyone at all.  And
indeed, one of the most
powerful examples of this exploration is
cultivating one's network.  But beware,
forget about your loved ones because even if
intuitively we think that the
greatest strokes of luck will come from our
best friends or family,
this is totally false.  Science proves
the opposite.  Our close friends live
in the same world as us.  So they
have access to the same information.  According to
sociologist Marc Grenovetter, the
most transformative opportunities
almost always come from our
weak ties.
When you hang around with your best
friends, they tend to know each other
and you form aak with them and their
best friends are kind of the same as
your best friends.  So if you want new
information then you go to your weeks,
your seventh and eighth best friends in
different circles from
other
windows obviously, we cannot
explore all the doors.  It's far
too risky and energy-intensive.
So, how do we choose?  The secret of
people who expose themselves intelligently
is to seek out asymmetry of
risks.  The goal is simple.  Exploring
paths where the fall is capped but
the potential gain is infinite.  Send
a bold email to a CEO.  Starting a
personal project on the weekend or going to
a conference where you don't know
anyone.  The maximum cost of these actions
is ridiculous: a simple name, a little
wasted time, or an awkward moment.  But the
potential gain is unlimited.  With this
chain, we are exactly in that
phase.  We decided to expand our
scope as much as possible to capture all
possible opportunities.  We contact
creators we admire.
Expert advice is sought.  We said yes to
improbable proposals and I'm not going to
lie to you, we faced walls
and rejections, but a single
yes is enough to erase without a name.  And the rare
times the door opened, it
led to encounters and
projects that we could never have
anticipated.  So, think about it.  We
encounter highly competent people every day
without ever daring to
ask for their expertise.  And it is
precisely to recreate this dynamic that we
launched the channel's Discord server.
We wanted a place to spark
encounters, to bring together
radically different profiles and
allow you to connect with other
enthusiasts.  If you want to shake up
your daily routine a bit and come debate
with us, the link is right there in the
description.  So obviously, exploration
is important, but for
exploration to be fully effective,
it must be measured.  If you spend
all your time exploring, you
scatter your efforts and you don't build anything
solid.  To achieve this balance,
companies like Google recommend the
70 20 10 rule: 70% exploitation
of your existing assets, 20%
moderate exploration, and 10% total and
risky exploration.  And if these companies insist
so much on protecting this time, it is
for a very specific reason.  Each
time we allow ourselves to explore, we
reap what we might call a
point, a rare skill, an
unusual encounter, or a strange idea.
So, at the moment, this point
often seems useless, but the art of
luck is knowing how to connect the
dots.  And history is full of
famous examples.  take a calligraphy class to
learn how to do this.  I learned about
serf and sand serf type faces about
varying the amount of space between
different letter combinations, about
what makes great typography great.  None
of this had even a hope of any practical
application in my life.
But 10 years later when we were
designing the first Macint computer, it
all came back to me and we designed it
all into the Mac.  It was the first
computer with beautiful typology.  If I had
never dropped in on that single course
in college, the Mac would have never had
multiple type faces or proportionally
spaced fonts.  Of course, it was
impossible to connect the dots looking
forward when I was in college, but it
was very, very clear looking backwards
10 years later.  Again, you can't connect
the dots looking forward
looking backwards.
And this is not an isolated case.  Gutbert,
who was not a blacksmith by trade, lived
in a wine-growing region.  He combined
his knowledge of metallurgy with the
mechanics of grape presses to
invent printing.  These stories of
genius are fascinating, but we wanted to
measure the real power of this
exploration.  So we resumed our
computer crash test.  This time, we're
changing the algorithm.  We add to our
agents an exposure gauge ranging from
1 to 5 which defines how much they will
encounter new
random events and the results become more
radical.  In a
favorable environment, exposure is an
accelerator of absolute success.
Since opportunities are
plentiful, the more you expose yourself, the more you become
wealthy.  Of the top 20 in the
simulation, almost all
benefited from very high exposure.
Conversely, the most talented agent in the game
collapses in the rankings because
he had far too
little exposure.  But beware, in an
unfavorable environment, this becomes
a trap.  To expose oneself is like running
blindfolded through a minefield.  You
simply increase your chances of
encountering bad luck, which hastens
the fall.  The statistics are reversing
dramatically.  Highly exposed profits
disappear from the top 20, and the
winning strategy is then to keep a
low profile.  True talent,
therefore, does not consist of shining at all costs, but of
knowing how to read one's environment in order to
choose when to expose oneself and when not to
do so.  But we are still missing a
piece of the puzzle.  The
most
important question remains unanswered.  What do we do at the precise moment
when this famous opportunity falls into our lap
?  This is where
genitiveness comes in.
Most people who come across an
opportunity are content with it.  They
take the small bonus that the city
offers them, rejoice in it, and
resume their daily lives.  The big
winners, on the other hand, squeeze every
last drop of the lemon.  Researcher
Jim Collins gave this ability a name
: Return on Load.  It is the art
of capitalizing on a
positive random event to transform it into
a massive and lasting advantage.  It's about
seizing the opportunity and
squeezing it 200%, exploiting it until it
becomes the turning point of
your life.
these things called natemple
deates.  His immense stroke of luck
was that in 1968, at only 13 years old, his
school was one of the first in the world to
acquire a computer terminal.  If he had
limited himself to recreational use, he
would probably have become a simple
engineer.  But he became
obsessed with programming.  To
circumvent the usage limits
imposed by his school, he hacks into the
servers of a local company and, once
discovered, negotiates unlimited access
in exchange for his internet connection to secure
their system.  He then developed
software for his high school to gain
extra machine power and even went so far as to
sneak into the
computer room at night.  Bill Gates has
never accepted having a door closed to him
.  Even before graduating from high school, he had
already accumulated over 10,000 hours of
programming experience.  And to be honest,
this notion of proactivity is
something that resonates with me a lot.
For a very long time, I felt like I was
living my life on
autopilot.  I broke into the boxes I was put in
because, deep down, that's what
we're taught.  Validate
acquired skills, get good grades, follow the
prescribed path.  But we are
rarely, if ever, pushed to do more.  And deep down
, it frustrated me.  When
I looked at the women and men
who inspired me, they all had this
same thing in common.  They had gone
much further than what was required
of them.  So I desperately searched for
a purpose, a project to break my own
passivity.  And I've finally found this project
.  This project is this
YouTube channel.  Starting this chain made me
realize that we don't have to
wait patiently for our lucky turn
in the queue and that we have the
right to provoke it.
But beware, kindness is
not only about knowing how to exploit
luck, it is also about knowing how to cope with
bad luck.  And that is perhaps the
most counterintuitive point.  Faced with an
unforeseen disaster such as a
pandemic or a bronchoscopy crisis, one
might be tempted to blame
fate.  The winners, on the other hand, practice
productive paranoia.  Since they
know that chance will always
strike eventually, they are constantly preparing for it
.  They are building up
financial reserves.  They have plans
B and plans C. So, when the crisis
hits, they are no luckier
than anyone else.  They are simply
much harder to sink.
Gentivity is the absolute refusal to be
a passive passenger at random.  And to
better visualize how this last
pillar interacts with the rest of
the equation, we injected it into
our simulation.  Some
agents have been endowed with this Returnlock and this
productive paranoia.  And in a
favorable environment, the verdict is
fascinating.  The hierarchy has been
completely overturned.  In our
final top 20, the average talent score is capped
at just 07. The grand winner of
this final simulation is, moreover,
absolutely no genius.  His
talent score is only 0.59.  However,
if we look at their behavior, the
statistics are conclusive.  Of the top
20, absolutely all benefit from
maximum exposure.  Faced with
agency, pure talent becomes
much less decisive.  Certainly,
a necessary foundation remains, but without
exposure to find
opportunities, without the return on chance
to exploit them to the fullest, and without
productive paranoia to absorb
crises, even the most
exceptional talent ends up spinning its wheels.
So, we have reached the end of our
research.  If there is
one thing to take away from this video, it is that
extraordinary luck is never a simple
accident.  It is a collision between
three forces: chance, exposure,
and agency.  Three pillars which
obviously collapse if they are
not supported by an unshakeable foundation:
work.  But now, let's put
the data and analysis aside for a moment.
While preparing this video, I realized something
.  In real
life, there is one variable that code
cannot simulate.  That's our own
perspective.  We are all familiar with the image of the glass being
half full or half empty.  Well, in
my opinion, the mechanics of luck
are the same.  It's a matter of
choice.  We have this incredible power to
choose the ending of the story.  And it's
a virtuous circle.  By convincing ourselves
that we were lucky, if only
because we escaped the worst, we
maintain our optimistic spirit for
our future.  This momentum then becomes
our driving force to continue pushing open
new doors.  Honestly, writing
this video has made me feel incredibly good.  It
awakened in me an urgency, that of never again
being a passive passenger
in my own existence.  The desire to no
longer wait patiently for my turn.  Because
we spend our lives waiting for a
stroke of luck, convinced that it is a
mystical lottery that saves some and
curses others.  That's wrong.  Luck
is an architecture.  So, get out of
the queue.  Speak to this stranger
who intrigues you.  Launch that little
project that's been on your mind.
Dare to ask, dare to bother, dare to
fail.  Tomorrow, the ocean will continue to be
restless.  The wind will blow for everyone
and in all directions.  The
only question that matters is not
when the storm will stop, but
whether, when the right wind
comes, you will have built the
boat to catch it.  Thank you for
sharing this journey with me and take
care.
