Please welcome the panel on strategies
for expanding affordable housing
moderated by Jennifer Sundog, executive
director of City Lab at Bloomberg.
>> Hi everyone. Uh thanks for being here
and thanks to our panelists today. Um I
actually um am a senior editor at
Bloomberg. Um I um was running Bloomberg
City Lab for the last four years and I
would just like to mention that my
colleague Alexandra Lang who's a
contributor um to City Lab one a
Pulitzer yesterday which was a huge deal
for us for her design writing and I
would recommend everyone to read her
work which is so fantastic and about
cities and how we can improve cities and
make them better. So that is what we are
here to talk about today. And you know I
I came in from New York on Sunday and I
was in the cab and the driver asked me
what do you do? I said I'm a business
journalism journalist. And he said um
what's going to happen with housing? And
I thought this is really a strange thing
to happen when I'm doing this panel. Um
but I think you know he was complaining
it's too expensive here in LA. Um, and I
think this is a really good place for us
to be having um, this discussion and I
think this is an important audience for
us to be having this discussion with.
Um, so I really, you know, I could not
answer his question. I do not know
what's going to happen with housing, but
I am really grateful to be here with
this group of experts who I hope do have
some answers and um, can get into
solutions and talking about the great
work that they're doing. Um, so to kick
this off, um, I would love just to hear
from each of our panelists for about one
to two minutes on what they think is the
biggest obstacle right now to creating
more affordable housing, creating more
housing. So, let's start at the end with
Shane and then we'll work our way down
here.
>> Sure. Thanks, Jennifer. Um, well, I
think I might have stuff to say that
others will also have to say. Uh
certainly the long-term biggest problem
we've had is just housing supply. Not
building enough housing for going on
four or five decades probably. And
that's the been the biggest problem in
places like Los Angeles where there is
very high demand, lots of job growth.
And yet we have not really responded to
that in a meaningful way by building
more homes. And I think over the last,
let's say, 10 to 15 years, a problem
that was really concentrated in places
like Los Angeles and San Francisco and
New York and Boston and so forth is
spilling over into other cities that
maybe have been building enough housing,
but they can't build enough housing for
their own people and their own growth,
plus all the overflow from places like
this. So, I think that's a really core
issue in the long run. Obviously, there
are short-term things going on right now
as well.
Um,
I think the problem is multiplefold.
Just to provide context, we are um a
large affordable housing developer in
Los Angeles. We build exclusively in
low-income communities like South LA,
Watts, Compton. We have 40 projects um
at various stages of completion. 17 are
complete, 13 are in construction, and 10
are in entitlement. So we are at the
front lines of um Los Angeles which is
you know patient zero of ground zero of
the lack of affordable housing and I
think fundamentally there is um you know
it needs to have the political backbone.
The politicians have to really commit to
changing the entitlement and permitting
process. There's a lot of policy that
needs to be changed fundamentally on the
capital side because most of us here are
not politicians but on the capital side
there does need to be a long-term
commitment to the category and the
institutionalization of it and bringing
in institutional capital into the
category would help. Um so there there's
those are maybe some high level
strategic things and then you know
dozens of tactical things that we will
get into as well.
>> Thank you. I feel like it was a setup
that you're talking about um elected
officials. So when I think about my time
as mayor of Baltimore, affordable
housing wasn't a talking point. It was
an everyday crisis. And as I think about
this panel uh from that perspective, I
think it's intrinsic upon any everyone
that is in government to remove every
barrier to housing creation. Um we're
not going to build our way out of it
with the status quo. the bureaucracy is
broken in cities across America. And
until we figure out at at every level,
city, county, state, how we um make it
easier, whether it's permits, whether
it's zoning law, um whether it's, you
know, density um law to make it easier
for people to build, we're never going
to close the gap. I think it's we're
over 5 million uh homes short uh in this
country. And um you know I know you've
probably sat in community meetings where
you think you're not going to get one
unit built um because of the the
nimbies. So you know I think we need
more yimies and we need um more uh
elected officials who are willing to
innovate and to make housing creation um
you know because housing is critical
infrastructure.
We listened to uh some of the panelists
in other days talk about how they have
to um bring people in um because they
don't have space for their workers. Like
that's important. You have to have a
place for your uh workers uh to live
near the jobs. So we need more elected
officials to think about housing as
critical infrastructure and remove those
barriers.
>> Hey everyone, Scott Epstein. the
director of policy and research with the
Abundant Housing LA. We're LA's Yimi
Proousing Advocacy uh organization. Um I
I tend to agree with uh with Shane that
essentially this is a supply issue, but
but why have we not gotten that supply?
And and I think about two major buckets
of policy failure. One is we have been
extremely restrictive about what we can
build, right? So the number of units,
the height, the uses,
um also in terms of building code, you
know, we have to have double two
stairways in every building. All of
these things really limit what can be
built. And then we have created a
process that is extremely ownorous,
extremely costly, extremely risky for
building housing. So discretionary
processes, you know, the whims of
elected officials, lawsuits, uh because
we have environmental
uh
an environmental kind of regulatory
process that is is not actually getting
the most environmentally friendly thing
built, which is infill housing. So all
of these things add up to a process
where it's just very hard to build
housing.
>> Hi, I'm uh Steven Jacob. Very good by
the way, all of you. I come from a very
uh different skill set.
I have built just about everything
except tilt up industrial residential
uh commercial
office
hotels, medium and large and in 35
countries around the world and just
about every state in the United States.
So as a as a builder and my first one of
my first projects way back when I used
to had to build myself because everyone
went broke. So I learned the hard way.
But I've also been involved in
legislation creating legislation in
various states. I have changed laws in
some of the most difficult states. I
took a law all the way to the Delaware
Supreme Court.
I've also been a regulator and I've also
been a judge.
So, I come with doing due diligence and
really trying to fix broken. And I've
fixed the most broken. And I think the
most difficult state
country to operate in is the country of
California.
And I've done my homework because when I
was a young man, I built my first
shopping center in my 20s in Burbank.
and I was able to pull my permits in the
form and fashion where that broke them
up.
>> I did not have to abide by the stringent
regulations. California is probably the
most regulated state with over 380,000
regulations.
>> We are lawed out. We are regulated out.
Regulations are put in place to keep bad
actors out only not to inhibit good
business from doing good business.
The good news is there's solutions.
I come to the table with solutions.
Uh unfortunately with the fires in Los
Angeles, we paused through the governor
through an emergency action. SQUA SQA
was created 50 years ago and probably
needs to be revisited. But people forget
it's not just SQUA, it's the species and
wildlife act also because they have to
be looked at and combined.
And in doing so,
we have an affordability emergency in
our state.
And that's part of it's no secret I'm
running for governor of California.
uh one of the main issues that I'll deal
with as your next governor to pause SQA
and the wildlife act until new
legislations crafted
to bring it up to standards to allowed
us to grow into the future with
reinforced housing that understands the
insurance impediments that we now have
to deal with because it's tanamount to
insurance.
And uh of course hopefully we don't have
these unwieldly tariffs which are an act
of war.
Uh but we're going to need somebody to
fight for California. But you know I I'm
in pre-planning on a project right now
that I'm doing with uh my office and
just the comparative analysis between
what I'm doing today compared to what I
had to do in the 80s or in the 90s. It
is a thousand times more difficult. And
I happen to be fortunate enough to have
the value of time and some money. But if
somebody did not have time and money,
the uncertainty and risk, it's not worth
the squeeze. And then you overlay this
crazy law in Los Angeles of ULA without
talking to its customers first. There's
no You thought you were going to raise
$800 million. There's a reason why you
only raised $100 million. because the
market spoke for itself. Because the
bureaucrats have forgotten to talk to
its customers
and it's tiptoe in the state and it's it
is it it's time for those that have been
in office to leave office and new
leaders come in with experience, those
that have signed the front of a check
and the the time is now. So, it's all of
everything you just heard. Uh but you
must have certainty. We must have
certainty locally. We must have
certainty statewide. We must have
certainty in our federal government.
We're living in this land of whiplash
today.
And California used to be a bully pulpit
and it shall be again. That when I grew
up here, that's what it was.
>> But with that, we'll just turn over.
>> And I do want to I do want to talk about
what we're seeing at a federal level
level and especially a state level in
California given so many of you are
working here in California. But uh first
I would like to really talk about Los
Angeles. and Martin, you know, we've,
you know, we've heard about what's going
on. We haven't talked about what
happened with the fires and what that
has done to compound a lot of these
issues. And I know you've been
personally affected and I would love
for, you know, if you could share your
story, but also talk about what you're
seeing in your work and and what that
does for all these issues that we've
just brought up.
>> Um, you know, I, as you mentioned, I
lost my house in the Palisades fires. I
know other people have as well that are
here, friends and community members. And
you know, it's not only losing your
home, it's literally losing every
material possession you own. My wife
lost her wedding veil and my kids lost
everything. And um in some respects, you
know, it really grounds you about what
is important in your life. And um I grew
up in West Africa. I came from nothing.
And to some degree, you know, uh, eight
weeks ago, I had only two suitcases of
of everything I owned. I've moved seven
times in the last 60 days.
>> Um, and it it you really get back to the
essence of why you do what you do. And
it's certainly we all care about the
economics and we're all here, we're
capitalists, we're free enterprise
people. But really the I continue to
believe that everything that is good
about this country and everything that
is troubling about this country is one
degree of separation from housing. And
it is a critical element of
competitiveness, of mobility, of
economic opportunity, of racial
equality. All of these things are one
degree of separation from housing. And
um it really just um reinforced to me
the sense of urgency at which we have to
go after this problem. Um and and and I
will say um just sharing my personal
story, you know, as we went from Airbnb
to Airbnb, ultimately a lot of um a lot
of nights my kids would come into our
bedroom to sleep because there was just
a different, you know, level uh how it
impacted them. At first, it was cute and
endearing. It's not good for the
marriage. Not cute and endearing.
and and my son who's four years old um t
turned to me and and said you know one
night and he said dad you're a builder
so are you going to build our house or
are you going to build everybody else's
house first and I you know sort of had a
moment there and swallowed hard and I
turned to him and I said listen you know
what there are kids that are sleeping
outdoors today they have without a roof
over their head there are 60,000 people.
I didn't say 60,000 to him, but I said
there are hundreds and thousands of
people that are unhoused and so I have
to build their house first. And you
know, he kind of got it and and so I
think we should all be operating in this
sense of urgency and I've spent a lot of
time with um the mayor of LA, Karen
Bass. you will be here tomorrow at 1 if
you want to see a pine and and and the
um city officials, the president of city
council um Scott Turner came down to
visit with us after this happened. We
you know and and I think this is an
important time for us to use this crisis
to redefine the process to fix some of
the pro problems. We can spend this
entire session speaking about the
problems,
but it is about the conviction and the
will and the fortitude to drive change
at every level of bureaucracy in LA and
and LA will come back. I'm convinced and
I'm, you know, I'm hoping to be one of
the folks that help, you know, lead
that, but but really not politically, no
political aspirations whatsoever, but
but to build our way and and and
increase the supply dramatically, and
there's just got there's just so many
changes we have to make.
>> I I I feel bad for you uh personally. I
feel bad for you in business
because I know the people that you're
dealing with in the city of Los Angeles
and they've never signed the front of a
check. They don't even know what you go
through.
They tell untruths.
They don't level set the people of Los
Angeles. Okay? They let a reservoir not
be taken care of for a year for
$170,000.
They let the people of Alatina not have
water for weeks, the black and brown
community. I know because I'm involved
on the philanthropic side. So, we as
leaders
have to look really hard at those that
we have elected and those that we have
elected that have failed us. And I give
them an F because when they fail us on
life safety,
the most important issues of how we live
and pay our tax dollars, we have gotten
negative value.
So these are hard truths
and you know, we can be sweet and kind
or we can call the balls and strikes as
we see them.
>> Okay.
>> I'd like to hear from Scott and uh what
he thinks about this. What what kind of
grade are you giving everyone right now?
and and what has changed about your um
strategy for your organization and what
you're finding now in the way things
look in LA?
>> Yeah, I mean, well, I'm sympathetic to
to the view that
our that we have had a political problem
in this city. I ran for city council to
to try to fix these issues. And I think
this uh our local officials have for
decades, I think, created this problem.
This is a problem of our own making. It
really is. So, I think that's that's
important to recognize. Um, you know,
the fires I think
as Martin so eloquently said, you know,
we have 60,000 people count wide on the
street. We have tremendous overcrowding.
We have over half of Angelenos's cost
burden, which means that they're paying
over a third of their salaries on rent.
that is these are huge problems and
tens of thousands of folks uh all of a
sudden being displaced of course
exacerbates it. I do see signs of
optimism.
Um I do think that we are uh we are
building power as sort of a pro-ousing
movement. you are seeing more elected
officials that are willing to champion
housing and I think that the the fires
was a was a moment that is instigating
some action. you are seeing council
member Ramen in the city in LA who's I
think our definitely our strongest
prohousing champion start to move on
things like self-certification
so that okay you know what a simple
single family home let let a licensed
engineer uh self-certify that everything
works out that's going to take staff
time off of these simple things we we're
living in fiscally constrained times so
that they can focus on the more
complicated projects that we so
desperately need, those dense multif
family projects. That's smart stuff that
should have happened quite frankly a
long time ago, but I think you are
starting to see political movement uh as
a result of these fires and as a result
of the severity of this crisis. You are
seeing that in the state legislature as
well. Um every year, um every
legislative session we have more
pro-ousing people. Um, and you know, a
decade ago, I've been in this movement
long enough to to remember a decade ago
when Yimi's pro-ousing people were in
the woods, you know, now the speaker of
the assembly identifies as a Yimi, you
know, and so things are changing.
Um, but we have a long, long way to go.
>> Shane, could you talk about um these
bills that are moving through the
legislature right now? I mean, what are
their chances of success and could they
work? Could they have an effect?
>> I am no longer the expert on the bills
moving through the the h uh the Assembly
or the Senate. I have not followed them
closely in in quite a few years, but I
mean, one very big one that is moving
forward right now against quite a bit of
opposition, but it has gotten through a
few committees so far is SB79, Senate
Bill 79. And that's a bill that would
essentially allow uh or or require
cities to allow fairly dense housing um
within a certain distance of transit.
And this is something we tried back in
2017 and again in 2018. Both of those
bills failed. Cities said, "Don't put
this on us. We can solve the problem
ourselves. Here we are eight years later
and by and large cities have done
nothing." Um and the things they have
done have actually been the result of
other state laws that have passed around
2017 to 2019. So, um, Senate Bill 828,
which passed in 2017, I believe, is the
reason that cities in this most recent
planning cycle that they have to do
every 8 years, have to plan for a lot
more housing. In the case of the city of
Los Angeles, the prior 8-year cycle,
they had to plan for building 82,000
homes. This 8-year cycle, they had to
plan for 456,000 new homes. They have
not done a perfect job of planning for
them, but just the mandate of doing that
has really changed the conversation and
it has led to zoning reforms and
incentives and so forth at the local
level that just would not have happened
otherwise. And I've become a very strong
proponent for state reform. I think
there's still a role for local
governments and a lot of the laws that
have passed at the state level here and
in other states start as local reforms
that show promise and also show that the
sky didn't fall when they were approved.
And so that allows you to scale them up
to the state level. But I think the the
state is really the only way we solve
these problems. Uh because individual
cities cannot do it on their own. You
need to find the solutions that work and
then scale them up so that everyone has
to contribute. And the nice thing about
when you require every city, every
community to put something into this,
build some housing, solve the problem a
little bit, no one actually has to do
all that much. You don't have to
concentrate everything in a few
communities and that experience this,
you know, really sometimes catastrophic
change just to bear that burden for
everyone else. if everyone's
contributing, no one really has to do
all that much is what we're seeing
around the around the country.
>> And just to just to stick with you for a
minute, I mean, one of the things you've
talked about is that there's so many
public misconceptions around housing and
what's needed for housing. What what are
some of those misconceptions? And and
then I want to hear from everyone else
of what could we do and Stephanie, maybe
you could take that after. Mhm.
>> There's been a uh there was a really
good set of three uh studies that were
kind of survey based uh over the past
several years from some colleagues based
here in uh California and one that's in
uh New Orleans right now. But
essentially they asked people if there
was a supply shock, a sudden, you know,
surge of supply of cars, of homes, of of
grain, these kinds of things, what would
happen to the price of these things?
They mostly got it right for food. They
mostly got it right. They almost all got
it right actually for cars. I think
because we just experienced a shortage
of cars during CO 19. So it was fresh in
people's mind. Most people got it wrong
for housing. They assumed that more
housing would either increase prices or
do nothing. And I think there's a lot of
reasons for that. I think one is just
that we have not in most places
experienced a supply shock of housing in
most communities in the US for decades.
So it's just not in people's experience.
Um, but the the that was a a kind of
disturbing finding that people have this
mistaken view about what it would mean
to build more housing, which explains a
lot of the opposition. The good news was
that this did not seem to be a result of
motivated reasoning where people were
convincing themselves that more housing
was bad because they actually just
didn't want change or they didn't want
um, you know, their home prices to go
down, for example. The other good news
was that most people were not they did
not feel strongly about those views.
They were not confident in them. They
just it was just kind of their
intuition. And so there were some
follow-up studies done and just to to
wrap this up, the what they found is
that people were really willing to
change their minds when they were
offered information or an explanation of
how building more housing and I don't
want to say that's the only thing that
matters here because it's not, but it is
really a core issue. when they were
explained in different ways how this
helps, it was a really big shift. You
know, 15 percentage points, 30 to 40%
increase in support for building more
housing in the suburbs, in cities,
transit oriented development, these
kinds of things. Um and so I think it's
really just demonstrated and explains
why yimism and pro- housing uh that
movement has been fairly successful is
if you go to a public meeting and hear
people opposed to housing you'll think
that like people are really set in their
ways and those people are but that is
not most people that is not the majority
people most people are pretty
open-minded and willing to listen and I
think Yimi broadly speaking has been
really more than anything an educational
movement and over time that is
spreading. It just takes time. It's not
something you can change people's views
on in a year or even five, but we are
seeing a lot of progress over time.
>> Thank you, Stephanie. I
>> it it just made me think about, you
know, the comment about elected
officials failing and um to Shane's
point, it's about education because I
think the reflection of the decision-m
that a lot of politicians or elected
officials make a reflection of the
people that they serve and if the people
that they serve um don't have the right
understanding about increased housing
supply then those elected officials make
decisions based on those things and um
to the point about the educational
movement of Yimi um one of the things
that I'm proud about the work that I'm
doing now is with the Airbnb uh housing
council and um we believe that
supporting grassroots organizations that
are doing that education is the way to
create more housing supply across the
country. And I believe strongly it has
to be grassroots. You know, it I don't
see this being a top- down issue. This
is a um working with people on the
ground who want housing, who understand
that it's critical um for complete
communities, especially to have um
affordable housing, uh to have them be
the the messengers of this Yimi
movement. Um so it it is um I think a
critical time um to change hearts and
minds so those uh hearts and minds will
align with um what needs to happen in
government
>> and I and I think you know um I agree
with you. I think there needs to be a
grassroots movement. I think us as the
private sector at least you know I speak
on behalf of a lot of developers have
not been organized enough and
coordinated enough and I think we should
be doing more. I think capital needs to
play a much more vocal role. Capital
tends not to want to weigh in on sort of
semi-political issues and face headline
risk and and and so there is issues
there as well. Um, I will say that, you
know, my sense is that, um, this
administration, and I want to be clear,
I'm not a proTrump or against, I'm
neutral. Um, I want common I'm looking
for the common sense party. I haven't
found it. Um, but but I think this
administration is going to, um, begin to
have a very pro-ousing agenda. Um, I
think that Trump is a builder and he has
not yet come out vocally on that. I know
that, you know, opportunity zones, which
has have been one of his sort of um pet
policy projects, um is something that um
has been working and brewing in the
background of zones 2.0. You know, my
sense is
a
very
simple.
Common sense
in nonprofits that are building and
housing
innovation and scalability is not coming
out of the nonprofit sector and and a
lot of affordable housing has been left
through nonprofits that that despite
good intentions in Los Angeles are
building for 700, 800, $900,000 a door.
That is not scalable in any regard. Um
we've been able to build sustainably at
under $300,000 a door, really closer to
279, 287. Um and and that is through
relentless focus, discipline, hard work,
brute force,
and and watching, you know, pennies,
nickels, and dimes because we're
fiduciaries to to our investors. Yeah.
No,
>> that that was my point. Look, I've
worked with Lasha
and I've worked and I've seen when you
don't know where $2 billion
are, got a problem. You and I cannot
operate our businesses if we didn't know
where $100,000 was, let alone two
billion. The execution's terrible. The
accountability is terrible. The
enforcement's terrible. I walk through a
project
in the city of LA.
And as I was walking through it like
with my eyes of a punch list with blue
tape
and I saw so many imperfections and they
told me it was finished
and they told me it was good enough.
It would never happen in our world. I
would say more public private
partnerships. Let the private sector be
involved. We could do it cheaper, more
efficient, more better. Public private
partnerships are the way to go. You get
1 plus 1 equals 5. I if I was in office,
I'd have you work side by side with me
in a heartbeat.
>> Stephen, do you think um we're going to
see a better, friendlier building
environment from our builder chief in at
the national level? I
>> Are you talking about me running the
fourth largest economy?
>> I'm talking about the US economy.
Look,
we're living, you know, look, I don't
believe in tariffs. Uh, they're an act
of war. Then you go to sanctions, then
you go to boots on the ground, and then
missiles are flying. It's just it, look,
I understand the bravado.
He's the apprentice. I'm undercover
boss. Both shows end up in tears. Mine
are happy. His are not.
I have values. He doesn't. I have
integrity. He doesn't. I've sat as
alongside with him. I cannot do business
with him. U there's a better way.
Um I don't like he said the other day
some of his emissaries he likes chaos.
The United States needs certainty.
We need certainty in business. Um he
likes to play the game crazy Ivan.
That's a quote.
We can't have that in America. We'll
seize our bond markets. We fall apart.
We need certainty. We need to know where
we're going both at the federal level,
the state level, and the local levels.
>> So, we we need this new framework of
hard center, folks. Hard center,
collaborative hard center,
best-in-class, best standard operating
procedures, and call those balls and
strikes.
And uh we're all to blame. We no
fingerpointing.
>> Yeah. Stephanie, what are you hearing
from city leaders around
um the country of you know how they're
dealing with this uncertainty and you
know what it means for this mission of
creating more housing? Well,
the frustration among um mayors across
the the country is palpable, mainly
because um the current administration
sees cities as the enemy. And you don't
it it's hard to have a positive working
relationship
when uh the person across the table
thinks that you're the problem and
doesn't see the the innovation doesn't
see the opportunity.
Um, and quite frankly, at a time when
Washington is broken,
um, when
tweets and viral videos count as
leadership, I think we are missing an
opportunity to see where real leadership
is happening, and that's in cities
because, you know, we can't uh mayors
cannot uh say that they're not going to
pick up the trash or they're not going
to
um fill a pothole.
um for political reasons, you know,
because they um oppose someone's
ideology, they have to to get the job
done. So, it's not the uncertainty um
that I think is the issue when it comes
to um cities across the country and the
current administration. It is the
certainty that u there's a lack of
respect of um
city leaders across the country. And I
think that there's an opportunity. I
mean, the the um when the United States
made um strides when it comes to on the
federal level, when it comes to climate
change, it didn't do it on its own. The
federal government, the Congress didn't
do it on its own. It was cities, mayors
across the country that signed a a
climate compact. And once there was a a
a
patchwork and then a network of cities
that had signed on, it gave uh Congress
the the the foundation to pass um
action on climate. I think there's u
when it comes to housing, there's an
opportunity there as well. We have to
rethink uh housing. We have to unlock.
We're not going to build, we can't
rebuild our way out of this fast enough,
you know, because the urgency that we
need is coming up against regulations.
It's coming up against um zoning. It's
coming up against all of the the uh
well-meaning uh legislation that
preventing um
increased housing supply. So, I think we
have to rethink what housing supply
looks like. Whether it's um ADUs,
whether it's um unlocking unused housing
supplies, housing supplies in people's
homes, we have to rethink every part of
it to um find a way to house those who
need it.
>> So, what is what are some cities that
are doing this? Well, what you know, are
there cities that you look to as
examples and what are they doing
differently from anyone else? I think
Oh,
>> go ahead. And then Scott, why don't you
go first Stephanie? Austin, for example,
reduced regul uh reduced their
regulation. Is that what you were about
to say about
>> Austin is a great example. I was
thinking about Cambridge, Massachusetts,
but Austin is fantastic, too.
>> You know, and their prices came down.
So,
>> yeah. I mean, Cambridge just I Cambridge
is now the leader on zoning reform in
the whole country.
>> So, Cambridge, Massachusetts basically
gone to four to six
>> expected uh city to be the leader. Well,
they they've had a pro housing.
>> So, walk us take us big picture of like
what did they do that was different?
>> They they have so uh Cambridge went to a
citywide upzoning approach.
>> The entire city is zoned and they had
substantial single family zones in
Cambridge. The entire city is now multif
family four to six stories. So about
four to five if you don't do any deed
restricted units and then you get some
up to six which is basically like a
woodframe limit anyway right um uh if
you if you do some set aside
>> so um
you know there's no nobody has done
something that I mean that's basically
like Paris style
>> urban form
>> right
>> so when the mayor was talking she
mentioned something that's so important
When we all start respecting each other,
when we all start having responsibility
to each other, and we all
are looking for and demand and need
because we need and deserve results that
are meaningful and measurable.
Then we'll start getting some solutions.
It's all a big these all concentric
circles. They all work together. got to
collaborate.
>> Okay. When you have regulations that
become weaponized,
they create uncertainty
and this uncertainty needs to be
removed. What was needs to be revised.
No mandates, have aspirations and pivot
towards that aspiration.
um how can uh the private sector work um
with with city leaders on these issues
and also at a federal level. Um Martin,
you want to take this one?
>> Yeah. Um well, how many of you are based
in Los Angeles here? Show of hands. So
about a third of the room. You know,
look, I think um we we're very focused
on Los Angeles. It's um it's our
backyard. You're never a prophet in your
own backyard. But but we believe that it
has tremendous potential and I know a
lot of institutional investors have
written off Los Angeles um and and and
sort of fly over and and I think it's
incumbent on the um private sector both
capital and operators to really um sift
through a lot of the noise to find out
where the opportunities are. when we
talk to institutional investors, it's
look, you know, there are certainly um
opportunities for sustained um higher
returns, IRRs and whatnot, but you're
also investing in the quality of life of
your retirees, of your pensioners, of
your teachers. There are teachers that
are commuting an hour and a half to get
to their schools because they can't
afford to live close to Pelis Verdees or
whatnot. And that is a quality of life
investment. So, you know, I think one of
the things that the private sector has
to do is to really to look at this this
um space affordable housing broadly
defined. You know, fundamentally we
believe all kinds of housing, workforce
housing, attainable housing, call it
what you will, covenanted and
uncovenanted, it's something that the
private sector has to double down on. I
think the future of Los Angeles re
relies on us being able to solve this as
we go into the 2026 World Cup, the 2027
Super Bowl, and the 2028 Olympics. The
world is coming to see the American
experiment in the streets of Los
Angeles. And so we have to get it right
because the stories that they take back
to Kazakhstan and to Angola are going to
be about what happens in America for
real. Um and so I think the private
sector has to be more deliberate, more
vocal, mo more coalition building, you
know, um sometimes the private sector
gets a little sharp elbowed around this
from a competitive standpoint. We have
spent a lot of time working with what
would be notionally competitors to say
look let's agree on frameworks. Let's
bring it to the public sector. Let's
give them the benefit of the doubt. I've
been disappointed again and again but I
continue to do it right to to give them
solutions and and there is a they there
is a spirit of receptivity currently I
don't know how long it will last and the
implementation you know still is
discouraging but you know we don't have
that option we don't have the option of
picking a different commander and chief
right now we don't have the option of
changing the mayor or the governor may
may you know folks are running but but
but fundamentally we have to deal the
hands that we're the cards that we're
given and we have to be pragmatic about
it and and it really the private
sector's got to do a better job and I
will make one additional point which
look we we are a double bottom line um
operator we believe deeply in social
impact we believe deeply in community
development and that has to go
handinhand with being a great operator
you have to invest in the community and
we have seen and have dozens of not only
anecdotes but data uh about how social
impact done right really transforms
community and and improves your ROI and
it's something again the private sector
has been somewhat ambivalent about.
>> Jane, I think you wanted to comment.
>> Yeah, I just wanted to say um I think
there's like developers and people in
that industry could and should do more.
But I think what would have even more
impact is people outside of that
industry in you know because every
industry relies on affordable housing in
the communities in which they operate.
And I think when hospitals show up, when
you know the grocery stores show up,
when you know just local businesses of
any kind, whether individually or in
coalition, show up and say this is
important to us and have, you know, show
up to support specific things, not just
kind of abstractly support more housing
affordability because there's a million
things you could do with that, you know,
guidance. But I think that is really
what we need to see a lot more of. Um,
and and I think it just hits different
for elected officials. Stephanie, maybe
you can you can say one way or the
other, but I think, you know, rightly or
wrongly, when developers show up and
say, "We need to make all these
reforms." It's taken as as just
self-interest, and it is at some level.
It doesn't mean they're wrong.
>> I'm glad you said it.
>> Yeah. And I actually want to read this
one question I got from the audience.
I'm getting some questions in here, but
and I think you guys have answered this
in some of your comments of what do you
say to the criticism that private sector
cares about their bottom line for true
private and public partnerships to work
and for the people and the most
vulnerable there has to be a balance
where profits can't be the only goal.
Um,
>> so I mean,
>> go ahead.
>> And Shane, I'm glad you mentioned it
because, you know, as you as um Martin
was Martin was talking, I was reliving
um community meetings where the
developer has, you know, come in to make
the pitch. And that's probably the worst
person you can bring um to make a pitch
um in a in a community that is hesitant,
in a community that doesn't have trust,
right? Um but we we have to we have to
figure out a way to solve for that. So
that when you're when the question was
what can the private sector do I think
that you know I I look at a problem and
I look for the opportunity right
the private sector I think in
collaboration with um institutions like
city lab could create um
hubs for innovation around quality
affordable housing and the private
sector could create to to support you
know uh incent incentives around that
that building. you know, I I really
think that there is a way to use the,
you know, the the smarts of the of
builders, the um the willing investors
and um you know, people who get it that
have have built things um to come up
with solutions for how we can create
more affordable housing in cities across
America because you know, you said it
again, there's no reason why a teacher
should have to commute for an hour and a
half. I mean, that's atrocious. And that
underscores what I'm saying. You know,
we should treat housing as critical
infrastructure and look for ways to fund
it like we fund every other critical
infrastructure in cities.
>> Thank you.
>> Can I just add just really quick? I
mean, I I think
>> the I I'll say the maybe unpopular
thing, maybe not to this crowd, but like
profit isn't bad. And when someone
builds housing, the only thing profit is
not the only thing that's happening.
you're building a house for someone to
live in or homes for people to live in
and there are all kinds of e you know
positive externalities and so forth that
come from that and so I think the idea
that someone's profiting off of it like
that's true of just about everything
that we buy and so I don't think that
should be the metric one way or another
uh you know at the end of the day we
need housing and oftent times for better
or worse the people building it for
profit are actually able to do it at
much lower cost and if we're able to get
housing at lower cost I think That's
probably more important than, you know,
making no profit, but it costs 50% more.
>> No. So, when you say profit, can we just
go to a higher level for a minute?
Is there profit in education? Yes. It's
the resultant of what the children
graduate with. That's profit.
Is there profit in taking care of the
homeless or the mentally ill? Yes, there
is a profit.
Profit is ubiquitous.
So
change the nomenclature.
Everyone is a customer. Everyone should
get equal or greater value. There is a
profit. There's a social profit and
that's a profit. So help me help us
change this language. It's not divisive.
Let it be collaborative. Everyone is
involved in the profit business. There's
just different types of profits.
>> Would you agree to that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.
>> So don't ever say that say business is
bad because everyone is
saying that I think he was saying it
doesn't have to be at odds, right?
>> No. No. Yeah.
>> Yes. hand I was you know speaking from
my experience on the ground and it's not
you know it is it is born out of you
know everyone's not a good actor and if
you have communities who feel that they
have been taken advantage of uh
sometimes they will act against their
own best interest um
and fight against housing opportunities
because they've been burned
>> and and we have to we have to we have to
accept that and solve for that as well.
And
>> how do we change that then? How do we
then sit down and collaborate to make
sure that there everyone's a stakeholder
together?
>> But I mean, I I think Stephanie is
speaking truth in that look there there
are people that have been harmed by the
policy failures, right? Look at Los
Angeles. Like 75% of land in Los Angeles
is single families owned and you can't
build there. Well, where is the
development pressure going to go? That's
going to go mostly to the existing
multif family stock and people are going
to be evicted and if they're lucky,
they'll get, you know, a nice package
and they'll be able to land somewhere
else. I'm not saying that we should
never tear down any multif family
building and redevelop. That's a part of
that's, you know, buildings get old. We
need to redevelop.
But we have created a system that
disproportionately harms
uh higher needs folks, tenants, renters,
um to to appease folks that
um that want to control not what is
happening on their property, but what is
on happening on the property right next
to them, right? which is not
>> not their right, you know, like that's
that's that's that's you don't that
doesn't belong to you. Your neighborhood
doesn't belong to you. You're part of a
community. And so I do think it's
important to recognize that people have
been harmed by this system. And that
that is some of the the cynicism, the
skepticism that we are seeing in the
world. And we need to create an
abundance culture that can actually
deliver.
Um so people um can live in a world
where they you know people have lived in
a scarcity world where they where they
where they think quite rightly I guess
you know that um that the that the most
vulnerable among us are are are always
going to be harmed. How did we create?
>> How did how did Cambridge overcome,
>> you know, it's its legacy of reszoning
itself to accept their new zoning
platforms? How' they do that?
>> I think a lot of a lot of um movement
building and education over time. I
mean, I attended the Yimi town
conference in Boston uh four or five
years ago or something like that. There
are leaders in Cambridge that have been
fighting this fight for a decade now.
>> Yeah, I think they've had their own MB
group, A Better Cambridge, ABC for
probably a decade or longer. And yeah,
>> again, it's
>> they didn't, you know, these changes in
their first year or their first five
years. But, you know, I always point to
Auckland, New Zealand, and New Zealand
as a country. I learned a lot about it
in a conversation with someone from
there and all the reforms they've made
that were, you know, huge reforms
citywide in 2016 and then countrywide in
2019 or 2020. And from the outside it
looked like all of a sudden they were
just doing these huge things, but
actually they had been having
conversations about it since about 2005,
2007.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was just not visible to the
rest of us. But again, it was this
movement building, this education that
was kind of growing under the surface
and was nurtured and and you know,
elected officials participated, but it
didn't just happen by itself. It was it
was an active effort,
>> you know, but this is a point of tension
because even communities that
desperately need housing, you know, are
conflicted in some degree. Developers
are easy to vilify. Believe me, I know
this firsthand. Um and and um you you
have to be in it for the long game and
you have to look beyond some of that.
You know, I've been out raising capital
from institutional investors, Margaret
here has, and so on. And and and when
you talk about um things like affordable
housing, a lot of folks go, "Well, what
about things like headline risk?" And
you go, "Of course, there's headline
risk, but there's also, you know, KKR,
Black Rockck, Blackstone, and
headlines." But but when it comes to
affordable housing and being in
lowincome communities, there's a
tremendous amount of tension there. And
so you have to have the receipts, you
have to have the track record, you have
to find great operators that really can
execute ethically um with the community
in mind, but are still pragmatic about,
you know, outcomes and and so I think
it's a much more complicated and nuanced
story. And I would say that, you know,
for for those that are on the capital
allocation side, it really is looking
beyond some of the superficial, you
know, when we, you know, when you deal
with um some large institutions, they
are so shy about the headline issues
that they simply don't move. Um and and
I continue to reiterate that the
importance of this at every level of
society requires that you know capital
not just and and it's not concessionary
capital it's pragmatic sort of long-term
capital think about how to play a role
um for operators I think they have to
similarly take a longterm perspective
this is thankless you know um a lot of
people just think that we're
knuckleheads because we continue to
stick to it. But that long game is
critical to be able to, you know,
withstand. One of my investors said it
best and I think it applies to a lot of
us in the room, which is look, tough
times don't last. Tough people do. And
and that has been my mantra in 2025.
>> Yeah. And just with about five minutes
left here, I mean, I'd like to ask you
all a closing question where you could
talk for a minute or two, but what what
is one thing that we could change
tomorrow? like each of you just one
thing that you would like to see change
that would that could lead to you know a
a dramatic change is Stephen we'll start
with you
>> I would uh
absolutely
call an emergency to an affordability
crisis in the United States on housing
I would absolutely focus on family first
us first
because I think you know we've got all
these geographic things that we're
thinking about, but let's take care of
family first and let's deregulate. Have
regulations to keep the bad actors out,
but don't have regulations that inhibit
good business from doing good business.
>> And it it we forget about the the fact
I've said it earlier. We're all
customers.
Deliver equal or greater value to us.
Respect us
both ways. Be responsible and show
results. Show results. If we show
results, everything will change in a
nonvatrolic way. Collaborative. No more
yelling and screaming. Enough. We're all
Americans,
okay? We're all customers. And we have
to demand the same from our leaders. And
if we're upset, change. Don't keep
making the same mistakes because that's
the definition of insanity.
Scott.
>> Well, um I I I think we need to open up
single family neighborhoods and affluent
communities. I think that's a huge deal
for housing equity. It's a huge deal for
access to opportunity.
Right here on the west side, we have uh
like a four, five to one jobs ratio.
That's hurting us all. That's carbon
emissions going into our planet. That's
into our atmosphere. that smog um and
air pollution in California because
people are having to drive an hour and a
half um to get to their jobs in Silicon
Beach. Um a and and I will also say it's
it's like really important from a
housing production perspective as well,
right? I mean, what we need to be
thinking about is diversifying our
portfolio. Any particular parcel has a
very small percent chance of being
redeveloped, right? For various reasons.
people live there, they don't want to
sell. Maybe it's not a desirable place
to build. And so the only way that we're
going to kind of get the abundance that
we need is if we open up more land.
>> Thank you, Stephanie.
>> I think one of the things that would be
helpful if is if more people wanted to
be a part of the solution. So um in the
green room, the the president of John's
Hopkins came in. Hopkins
needs their their workers in proximity,
right? What if every and they've worked
to create affordable housing around
there? Um what if more companies, more
institutions
um would do their part and and it's not
for me to prescribe what that is, but to
accept that it is part of their
responsibility to try to find a way to
incentivize
um affordable housing and uh to increase
housing supply. And you know, again, um
you that's the what makes me proud about
the the work that Airbnb is doing with
the housing council is because we know
that we can't solve it all, but we can
be a part of the solution. And talking
to other companies that are saying the
same thing, let's find a way to be a
part of the solution. Um I think that
that would go a long way towards um
creating more housing.
>> Thank you, Martin. Um, I think there are
great thought leaders here from UCLA and
abundant housing that are really policy
have they have done great work. Um, and
I commend them for pushing that
thinking. Um, I think that us as
individuals and us as a community need
to be less polarizing and more
pragmatic. Wherever the solutions are
coming from, we've just, you know, it
just seems like we live in this
increasingly polarized world where, you
know, if the person on the other side
said something, it doesn't matter what
they say, it is bad. And that we can't
sustain that. And so, we've just got to
be um pragmatic around dissecting what
is being said from wherever it comes
from, far left, far right, to go what
are the changes that need to be
implemented. And I hope as a community
we can do that.
>> I think we need to do a better job of
telling the positive story of what
reform looks like and what change looks
like. I think we're pretty good at
pointing out the problems and how if we
don't change, you know, things are not
going to stay as they are. They're going
to continue on the same trajectory. And
that's all true and important that we
make that clear. But housing reform
can't just be and and building more
housing can't just be like eating your
vegetables. it like what's the what's
the positive aspect? What what are you
selling people on? And so really
emphasizing, you know, the fact that
your kids will be able to live in your
community, the fact that you might be
able to build new parks and be able to
walk to more locations, you know, the
the really the stuff that people care
about making their lives better, not
just keeping it from getting worse,
because I think that's just not
motivating enough by itself. And so I
think really finding those stories and
those examples and and you know figuring
out what works for different people also
is all going to be really really
essential.
>> Thank you all. I feel very encouraged
that you're all working on these issues
and I appreciate your insights and thank
you all for listening. Appreciate it.
