[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. AI is
everywhere, yet its exponential growth
will require equally rapid development
of digital infrastructure like data
centers and renewable power. How can
governments, hyperscalers, and private
capital work together to meet these
needs? To dig into the task at hand,
we're joined by Cicander Rasheed, global
head of AI infrastructure, and Peter
Thal Larson, the global editor of
Reuters Breaking Views. Here's their
conversation.
[Music]
>> I'm Peter Thalen. I'm the global editor
of Reuters Breaking Views.
>> My name is Cicander Rashid. I am the
head of AI infrastructure for
Brookfield.
>> So, Sicander, AI, it's a massive topic.
Um, there's a lot to talk about, but
let's let's just zoom out a little bit
to begin with. I mean, you can barely
move these days with without someone
confronting you with a new AI
application or some sort of uh kind of
tool that uh that they've developed and
or companies talking about what they're
going to do with it. Um, but I think
what's interesting to me is this this
frenzy active activity is also a massive
infrastructure challenge. Um, which is
where you come in. So talk to us just a
little bit to begin with about how you
think about the scale of that challenge
and and the activity.
>> Yeah, Peter, the the way I think about
this is over the last 250 years uh the
world has seen six general purpose
technologies including uh steam engines,
electricity, uh semiconductor chips and
the internet. And there's two common
themes across all of these general
purpose technologies. The first is that
um they stimulated uh many industries,
created millions of jobs and led to
enormous economic productivity gains.
The second common theme is uh they were
all capital intensive. So if you take
electricity for example in the early
20th century first half of the 20th
century um electricity buildout required
half a trillion dollars and you fast
forward to late 90s early 2000s the
internet boom required investment of
almost $800 billion into the fiber
backbone
>> in $800 billion in those in those days
>> those days exactly you fast forward to
today artificial intelligence is the
next frontier Here it is the next
general purpose technology and similar
to the previous technologies it will
also require massive buildout and our
estimates suggest that buildout will be
north of $7 trillion in the next 10
years alone. Uh so to your point uh the
capital needs will be immense and our
view is this is this is once in a
generation investment opportunities
investment opportunity for digital
infrastructure and power investors.
>> Yeah. also a once in a generation
investment challenge as well just
mobilizing that kind of capital. I mean
just just break that down a little bit
that 7 trillion like very you know
roughly how would you sort of how much
of that is is chips how much of it is
data centers how much of it is how does
how does that work? Yeah. So it is the
um it's total capex encompassing the
entire AI value chain
>> and data centers would be two trillion
of of the 7 trillion.
>> Uh behind the meter dedicated power is
probably half a trillion or so. Uh chips
or uh graphic processing units GPUs
which are central to training as well as
inference of AI will probably be around
three and a half trillion. So half of
the total capex is really chips
>> and then the remaining trillion is other
strategic agencies whether it's uh
dedicated fiber buildout uh liquid
cooling technologies and other capital
partnerships with uh semiconductor chip
manufacturer and design companies.
Before we dig into this, just tell me a
bit about your background like how did
you end up um in this in this role and
and and and dealing with all this uh
with this technology.
>> Yeah, look, I started my career after
finishing a mathematics degree at the
University of Wateroo. It's a technical
school in Canada and in university I
probably learned uh the mathematical
foundations of what today is artificial
intelligence. So that would include
algebra, combinotaurics, uh applied
probability and and calculus. And I
joined Brookfield uh 13 years ago and
over the last few years I've led many of
our global digital infrastructure uh
initiatives. And today I probably am
doing focusing on two to three things.
One is stitching together uh frameworks
for sovereign governments whether in
Europe or Canada or select Asian
countries uh that entail the creation of
local AI ecosystems and stitching
together uh frameworks for hyperscalers
and other technology firms that would
allow them to hopefully reduce uh the
cost of capital and help facilitate the
buildout of the large scale
infrastructure required uh for the for
the adoption of artificial intelligence
technology. So, um you talked about the
hyperscalers, right, which is sort of
the the industry word for for for the
big tech companies basically. Um and we
hear a lot about what they're doing. I
mean, that's a big focus in terms of AI
is is what they're invest what they're
doing and what they're investing in and
what they're spending. I mean I think is
it Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon and Meta
will collectively spend $300 billion
this year or something like that. But
these are big very profitable companies
and they're funding a lot of this out of
their own cash flow or or by borrowing.
So where does a a firm like Brookfield
get involved in that? What what what
role would do you play in in in sort of
their investments? Yeah, look uh simply
put, I would say technology firms are
building the brain whilst Brookfield is
building the body and a brain cannot
function without the body. The brain
cannot communicate
um or articulate concepts or ideas uh
without the body. Um and hyperscalers to
your point their capital spend on
compute and data centers has doubled in
the last five years. Uh it's almost
touching $400 billion today.
>> Okay. So it's gone up 100 billion since
I last looked at it which is uh this is
seems to be what's happening happening a
lot at the moment.
>> Exactly Peter and I think there's a
couple of things that sometimes get lost
in these big numbers. $400 billion a
year. No doubt that's an enormous
figure. Loss of capital and oftentimes
technology firms that are not who are
not supposed to be capital intensive
businesses get scrutinized for their
capex needs. And where we come into the
picture is we just want to build a
backbone of
>> AI infrastructure for these companies.
You want to build the body which will
allow them to um to put the put the
brain to work. So, so I like the brain
body kind of uh analogy. So, just just
explain that a little bit more. What
what are the what are the components of
the body that that Brook is involved in
building?
>> If you break down the AI value chain,
Peter, it really is four things.
>> Uh land, power, data centers, and
compute or GPUs.
>> Um we have been active across all of
those categories. Today we are one of
the largest hypers scale data center
developers in the world predominantly in
the Americas and Europe.
>> Uh we are also one of the largest
private renewable power developers in
the world. On the data center side our
pipeline is north of 10 gawatt. Uh we
have funded a few compute companies
through structured instruments and we
have also a couple of years ago we
teamed up with Intel to build the first
uh advanced semiconductor chip
manufacturing facility in Arizona uh the
US. So the value chain is simple. It's
comprised of four components and we've
been playing across all four of those
components for the last several years if
not decades. So, so just thinking about
the financial challenge then because
this is enormous, right? I mean, I was I
was looking at a recent Morgan Stanley
report, but they were talking about just
data centers being the requirement being
$3 trillion over four years or something
like that. Um, and their assumption was
half of that would come would be funded
by the by the big tech companies and
basically the other half would have to
come from
firms like Brookfield and financial
markets and so forth. So, how do you how
do you assess those investments? Like
where do you you know there's an element
here of sort of uh you know you're
trying to sort of figure out where the
where where the world is going and what
the future looks like when when you're
trying to make a decision about a data
center or or a power source or something
like that. What's the what's the
analysis that that underpins that?
There's generally two key principles we
tend to follow uh whether we're
investing in a power asset, a data
center asset, a compute asset or a
foundry for that matter.
>> And it's uh first is um
>> we want to make sure for any large scale
development there's an offtake agreement
with a highly credible investment grade
counterparty on the other side. Um and
the second is in an absolute downside
scenario we get our money back and a
minimum return on it.
>> And u as long as we believe as long as
we follow those two principles the in
addressable market is large enough to
large enough for us to continue to
deploy large scale capital in the AI
space and continue to be a um a dominant
player. So, so then just coming back to
those numbers like trillion and a half
dollars I it's not all going to come
from Brookfield. So, so, so how do you
sort of see this this capital coming
together? You're right. Brookfield alone
will not be able to fund it all. Uh,
this will require combination of public
markets as well as private markets. Uh
there will be there will be need for
creation of secondary market vehicles
for stabilized data centers. We recently
did that here in Europe through our
portfolio company data 4 where we carved
out a portfolio of 250 megawws which was
highly long-term contracted and sold it
off to investors that are targeting a
different uh that have that have a
different risk profile for those types
of assets. Uh in addition to that of
course on the debt side uh we will need
the support of or the sector for that
matter will need the support of the US
BP market uh CNBS market ABS market and
as well as uh project finance market and
then the last source of capital I
believe or support rather will come from
sovereign governments. Uh there's a huge
push uh towards ensuring security of
data uh sovereignty of compute
>> um for national security purposes as
well as economic productivity uh
purposes and that will probably require
the federal and provincial or municipal
governments to step in with with with
some level of support. Just want to talk
about energy because because that comes
up a lot and it seems to be a really big
challenge. I mean clearly these data
centers consume a lot of electricity. Um
I think the the international energy
agency reckons
electricity demand from data centers
worldwide is going to double by 2030 to
945 terowatt hours. I mean that is a
huge amount of electricity.
um how what are what are the big
challenges you think that that we face
in terms of overcoming in sort of
supplying that electricity and I guess
making sure that we don't run out of you
know power in other parts of the economy
at the same time
>> yeah look it's uh the the uh there's a
few challenges right um I think the
first thing I'd say Peter is um capital
will not be a constraint uh
uh and power generation will not be a
constraint. the real constraint will be
or the grid rather
>> right
>> um and how do you the question then is
how do you solve the uh the grid
equation so in the US uh for context uh
the next seven years there is expected
demand for data centers of 50 gawatt but
only 20 gawatt of the 50 gawatt is has
already been identified meaning only 20
of the 50 gawatt has readily available
grid capacity. So there's grid shortages
for more than half of the expected
demand. Now the question is how do you
solve for that? Right? Um I think
there's there's there's two potential
solutions. Uh and we're seeing some of
that play out already. One is interm
power solution whether it's fuel cells
or combined combustion gas uh generators
um or another type of interimm solution.
And in fact in the last 12 months alone
uh 3 gawatts of internal power solutions
have been announced in the US and Europe
alone. Um and the second solution is
will probably become a long-term trend
which is take compute where the power
sources historically power was brought
to the computing centers. Mhm.
>> Going forward supercomputers will be
taken to the power sources and that will
be uh those are two ways to solve the u
um the grid problem right there. There
is an issue there though there isn't
there which is um as I understand it um
you know if you're training a a model or
something like that you can do that
anyway you can build a data center in
the middle of a Norwegian fjord or
something and and and and have the power
locally and and and all that stuff but
if you and I are using like pinging a uh
you know kind of a large language model
or something with with requests then
that needs to be reasonably close to
where we are, right? So, and that sort
of inference data center use is is is
the challenge because in London
obviously or New York or Paris or
whatever there's there's just less space
to kind of build those data centers and
the power associated. So, so how does
how how are people going to solve that
challenge?
>> Yeah, you're you're absolutely right. uh
proximity of inference workloads uh will
be of paramount significance because the
reality is going forward today more than
half of the demand in the US is training
driven however a couple years from now
our expectation is 75% of the demand
will come from inference or applications
which to your point uh require a closer
proximity uh to the end user and um I
think what we're going to see is a lot
of the training demand will get pushed
out to the power sources. So whether
it's northern Europe, you know, Finland,
Norway or Texas in the US for that
matter, will probably end up consuming a
lot of the uh training demand. the
inference demand which will be
supplemented as I mentioned earlier
through interimm power solutions where
grid just doesn't simply have the
capacity
>> um uh will support inference demand
>> and that just to be clear on that sort
of interim power solution that's
literally like you put a you put an
energy source right next to the to the
data center or something is that right
>> that's right yeah so uh there's been a
few examples of um interimm power
solutions being put at work in the US
and Europe recently
>> as I mentioned 3 gawatt just in the last
12 months but it is it is as simple as
as you articulated uh which is uh CCGT
solution or a fuel cell solution uh
located uh in close proximity to the
data center itself.
>> Amazing. Um let's just I want to get
your view on the sort of on the broad
investment case because there is a sort
of there's like a build it and they will
come aspect to this right I mean these
investments are all being made in
anticipation of of of uh use cases for
this technology that
maybe exist in sort of embionic form or
in some cases don't really exist yet at
all and sort of an assumption that
people will pay for this. Um and that's
what the big tech firms are betting very
heavily on and obviously everybody else
who's involved in this is betting on
too. So um you you mentioned at the
beginning there've been sort of various
sort of you know kind of investment
waves of of kind of new technologies. Um
you mentioned electricity you know and
so the internet my other favorite one is
is the is the railway boom in Victorian
England in 1840 when everybody went nuts
and built lots of railways. But um and
those those those those investment booms
you know created infrastructure which
then later kind of was used and became
useful but it wasn't necessarily it
didn't ne necessarily work out so well
for the people who put up the capital
initially. So I guess I just sort of is
there a danger here that we just end up
with way too many data centers for the
you know for for a period of time.
>> The risk of overestimating uh demand and
missing the timing is is is real. Those
are very important uh considerations
>> and the reality is u the next phase of
AI at the moment AI is really as you and
I use it is really a chatbot. You ask
the chatbot a question and you get a
smart answer. Over the last two years,
those answers have become more
sophisticated. They've become smarter.
Uh which is great. U at the same time,
the next wave of AI, whether it's
agentic AI agents that hopefully will uh
will run our operations one day,
>> uh or physical AI or robotics. um those
use cases are developing uh but they
haven't been executed on a large scale
just yet. Uh we're optimistic that uh
they will be implemented uh ultimately
but today as of right now agentic AI and
physical AI for that matter are still
relatively in in their in in infancies.
Um but I would say Peter at the same
time uh what's different compared to for
example the uh dotcom bubble when you
know $800 billion of capital were
invested into fiber infrastructure and
led to many bankruptcies.
>> Uh there's a few differences compared to
the dotcom bubble. Um the first is
unlike the internet or the electricity
for that matter um artificial
intelligence is not a single vertical
really
>> it touches or is expected to touch every
sector in the world finance healthcare
education public sector you name it so
it's much broader the application than
just a simple a single vertical
The second big difference uh I would
argue is
today we're seeing in our business at
least we're seeing offtakes on the other
side. So we're not building
speculatively. uh last two years or
three years rather both in our power
business and our data center business we
have seen unprecedented demand for
compute uh for clean power
>> and it's all been driven by long-term
takepay contracts with highly credible
investment grade counterparties both
hyperscalers as well as the enterprises
and the third big difference I would
argue compared to the dotcom uh bubble
is um
the results of the users of the
technology. So though agentic AI and
physical AI are in their infancy,
there's no doubt about that.
>> Just last week, you look at the results
of Microsoft reported you know almost
20% jump in as Azour revenues uh thanks
to integration of AI into the Azour
products. Meta once again the business
model hasn't changed their geographical
footprint hasn't changed but thanks to
AI they reported a 20% jump and those
are two of the companies with some of
the highest uh capex needs uh ma
spending 70 billion Microsoft spending
north of 80 billion um so the point is
um his history would suggest
there is the potential for many to lose
capital
>> uh but there's a few nuances is here.
We're watching all those uh all the
risks, but there's a few nuances here
that give us the confidence to continue
to invest, especially the fact that we
have offtake agreements on the other
side.
>> Yeah, that's that's a good point. You're
not laying a cable across the Atlantic
in the hope that someone will then use
it. Um we were talking just before we
sat down, you we were talking a little
bit about this this concept of the
Jevans paradox which you raised which
which has come up a few times. I don't
know uh I think Satia and Nadella
Microsoft raise it and stuff in this
context. What can you explain a bit like
what is that and and how does it how
does it fit into this whole discussion?
>> Yeah, look it's uh Jeans paradox is
arguably the most important concept uh
we need to grasp in the context of AI
infrastructure. not the technology
itself but also um the buildout of this
artificial intelligence infrastructure
and Jebans paradox a concept was coined
by a British uh economist called William
Stanley Jevans in 1865
and what uh what he noticed was as steam
engines became more efficient the demand
for coal increased. It sounds
counterintuitive at first glance. Uh but
what really it means is over a 20 to 30
year period. Um Mr. Javans uh noticed
that the demand for coal far exceeded
his expectation because the demand for
steam engines as they became more
efficient uh increased exponentially.
And honestly, you fast forward to the
20th century, we saw that with
electricity as well.
>> Uh over the last 70 years, the price of
electricity on a per unit basis has
decreased by 65%.
>> Whilst the demand for electricity has
increased 15fold that's five times and
the population has not grown grown by 15
times. Mhm.
>> Uh it's really been driven by the fact
that as
a resource becomes more efficient, the
demand for it uh starts to increase and
that is what Satya Mandela was
referencing when he first on the back of
deep seek when the market was
plummeting. That's right.
>> He uh he tweeted these two words Jeans
paradox and today I would say uh Javan's
paradox is playing out right in front of
us uh in a couple of ways. One is the
demand the cost of inference in the last
three years alone has decreased by 99%.
>> And it's still not cheap enough. I think
it will continue to decrease and that is
very important for the adoption of the
technology. And the second important
component of Jeb's paradox today is the
cost of uh compute and the cost of
capital itself. When you break down the
AI value chain, interestingly
60% of it is not data centers or power.
It's capital needs to onshore chip
manufacturing. It's capital needs of
chip design companies for the benefit of
their own customers.
>> And it is it is GPUs or compute
infrastructure itself. And it is very
important that cost of capital for 60%
of the AI value chain is decreased over
time. And that is an area where we
believe we can play a very important
role through financial engineering and
through our structuring capabilities.
And uh if you do that in conjunction
with the cost of technology coming down,
I think that would only be positive for
uh not just AI infrastructure but also
for the adoption of the technology
itself.
>> Okay. Um you mentioned a couple of times
and at the beginning we you talked about
this you know about governments getting
involved in in in this technology
wanting to have control of you know data
centers, chips, uh you name it.
Obviously, we've also got um you know,
the US talking about imposing tariffs on
on imports of semiconductors, trying to
bring manufacturing back on shore. What
there's a sort of there's potentially
sort of fragmentation going on? Um and
and then I guess also with governments
getting involved, how how does that
affect this this growth? Because I guess
sort of economists would say this is
potentially less efficient. You know,
you're going to get duplication and and
so forth. How do you how do you see it?
Yeah, look it's uh I think there's a
couple of trends unfolding here. U one
of course as you mentioned is uh
geopolitics or you know tariffs. I put
tariffs in that category.
>> Um and that is leading to countries
wanting to onshore a lot of the capacity
whether it's uh chip manufacturing
uh capacity um or the compute itself. Um
so onshoring of critical manufacturing,
onshoring of critical resources, I would
put compute in that category is the
first major driver here. Um the second
driver is really the sovereignty of data
and the security of of of that data and
this is where the need to create local
sovereign AI ecosystems is critical and
that is a fundamental thesis of ours and
has been the backdrop to some of the
announcements we have made including the
$20 billion announcement in France in
partnership with the French government
and a10 billion announcement with the
Swedish government and there's a few
more of these coming.
>> No. Okay. So, you're a you're a neutral
party in this uh this sovereign kind of
contest then.
>> Yeah. Look, we as I said, we want to
build the backbone. We want to build the
body and we want to build it for some of
the largest tech firms in the world and
we want to build it for sovereign
nations. Um
so, just maybe just to wrap up, this is
a very rapidly changing field. I mean
things are moving incredibly quickly.
While we've been sitting here probably
the value of open AI has gone up by
another few billion dollars. Um what are
the the sort of the applications of the
technology that you are most uh focused
on most excited by that are coming up?
Yeah, look, I would say Peter from a
business standpoint, the area we are
most excited about is sovereign AI and
sovereign AI is really application of
the technology in the um in the public
sector. Uh there's a
in Western Europe there's a huge
opportunity to enhance productivity.
Productivity has been an issue in many
of uh these countries including the UK
where you and I are based over the last
few years. But artificial intelligence
can really uh help that help with that.
>> And sovereign AI as a business model for
us basically entails building out
integrated compute for the governments
who want data security, data
sovereignty. Um and that is really
exciting because it requires large scale
capital and requires operators who can
build and finance uh this large scale
compute. Um so that's from a business
standpoint what's exciting from the
technology standpoint I would say
near-term
uh you know we talked about chat bots
having mesmerized us over the last two
and a half to three years uh next layer
agentic AI and physical AI is is
actually quite exciting particularly
agentic AI near term and what that means
is AI agents uh helping us with our
tasks making us more productive on a
daily basis
and hopefully adding enormous levels of
productivity through as they are adopted
more widely by enterprises and
governments in the coming years and
we'll probably see enormous improvement
in AI agent technology in the next 12 to
24 months. Um and medium-term I would
say in addition to physical AI or
robotics
healthcare is an area that I want to I
am watching quite closely myself uh
faster drug discovery um you know
reduction of trial periods uh from you
know multiple years to 12 months is
really really exciting I would say for
for the humanity in in in general in
addition to agentic AI and and physical
AI Peter, what about you? What what are
you you are quite wellversed in the
technology and you know the implications
of it yourself. So what are you uh what
are you excited about?
>> I think that that the the healthcare
thing you mentioned is is is
interesting. I mean in some ways in some
areas that's arguably already where
we've seen the most kind of like the
real advances right the sort of the
alpha fold uh kind of exercise that that
that Google's deep mind did um is you
know that's leading to as I understand
it that's that's led to the development
of drugs which are either are or in the
process of kind of entering into
clinical trials. So I mean that to me is
more interesting than you know a chatbot
that can write a limmerick in the style
of Taylor Swift or whatever it is. Um,
personally, I just uh, you know, if if
if these AI agents can come anywhere
close to being something that can, uh,
uh, filter my emails and my team's
messages and my text messages and all
the different forms of communication
that I get pinged with on a daily basis
and basically say, well, okay, this one
you need to know about now. That one you
can ignore completely. That one you can
deal with later on. um that would be
transformative. So if if if there is an
AI assistant that that can actually do
that, then I will begin to believe in
this stuff.
>> They're coming and I I cannot wait for
one of those myself.
>> But hopefully we'll see a lot of
progress in that in the next 12 to 24
months.
>> All right. Well, maybe we can come back
and see reconvene at that point.
>> Exactly. Yeah. It's great to talk to you
and thanks very much.
>> Likewise, Peter. My pleasure.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks, including loss of the
entire investment.
