[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale.
On the heels of our 2025 Brookfield
Investor Day, Connor Tesy, president of
Brookfield Asset Management, and Hadley
Pier Marshall, CFO of Brookfield Asset
Management, join us to share key
takeaways and what's on the horizon.
Here's our conversation.
Hadley Connor, it's great to have you
here today. We are excited that you're
here to give us the punchline from
investor day. What do you want people to
take away? We were very excited to host
our investor day yesterday. And just
jumping to the punchline, we have
delivered consistently strong returns
when you think about the significant
growth expectations that we put against
our business. And we've actually done
that repeatedly. We really showed over
the past 5 years 15% growth rate and
it's just going to make the next 5 years
even bigger. So when we look forward to
the next 5 years, our flagships will be
a big part of the contribution and they
are the launching pad for our
complimentary strategies which will
actually have 100% growth attached to
those strategies. And then wealth
solutions. This is a big area for us
where we are at about $100 billion of
fee bearing capital now growing to $325
billion. So when you add that all up
together, we see 18% growth rates around
our business, which is quite exciting.
>> But Adie, there's upsides to that plan
as well. We think there's several paths
to outperforming that 18% base case. And
the two that are probably most relevant
and expected of our business is one, the
ability to continue to evolve the
platform offer new and adjacent products
that one meet the evolving needs of the
market, but two are tailored to the
specific needs of an increasingly
diverse base of investors that are
trying to get access to alternatives.
And the one that we highlighted a lot
yesterday was the launch of our new AI
infrastructure strategy. And we're
excited about this because in a way it's
history repeating itself. Four years
ago, we launched our energy transition
strategy that leveraged our lawn track
record in renewables. And today we have
a very significant platform that has
multiple market leading products within
energy transition. Fast forward 4 years,
AI is a major theme across everything
we're doing at Brookfield right now.
It's driving our energy business. It's
driving our infrastructure business.
We're using AI to drive efficiency in
our operating businesses within private
equity. But without a doubt, the largest
opportunity within AI is the role that
private capital can play in funding the
significant growth in AI infrastructure
that is required over the years and
decades to come. And this is why we are
launching a dedicated AI infrastructure
strategy. It's going to focus on
building gigafactories on behalf of
hyperscalers and sovereign AI
counterparties as well as in investing
in the value chain and the supply chain
that's going to support that whole
ecosystem. It's leveraging our
leadership in digital infrastructure,
our relationships with the hyperscalers,
our experience in advanced
manufacturing, our power capabilities
across nuclear renewables, traditional
forms. All of that puts us in a place to
launch a marketleading AI infrastructure
strategy which we think is one of the
most generational investment
opportunities in the market today.
>> That plus the opening up of the 401k
market, M&A of just our existing partner
managers, all of those are levers that
will continue to generate growth for us
even above potentially 20%.
>> Well, you mentioned 401ks, but just the
way we described it yesterday at
investor day was the individual
investor. That's your retail and high
net worth client. That's your annuity or
insurance policy holder. That's your
401k, the retiree market. And we're
exceptionally excited about this because
we think it is one of the, if not the
largest growth driver for our business
in the years and decades to come. But
what's important to reinforce is the
winners in that space are going to be
defined by who has the brand, the scale,
and the track record. And here we feel
we are unmatched. But perhaps even more
important than that is that new investor
base, the individual investor, they're
seeking the higher returns that come
with alternatives, but they put more
value. They put a higher premium on
consistency, downside protection and
liquidity. And this is where our focus
on real assets that have durable
cashgenerative inflation linked long
duration revenue streams. We feel we
have the largest platform in the world
that has the products and capabilities
that are best suited to meet the needs
of that growing individual investor in
alternatives. That is a multi-deade
tailwind for our business. Let's talk a
little bit about the market because
obviously you've given us a great
overview of where we feel we're at.
What's going on? What are we seeing? And
how does that set us up for what's
coming?
>> Well, Hadley should give you the numbers
cuz it's been our most active 12 months
in our history, and we don't see it
slowing down.
>> Truly, we have deployed 135 billion over
the past 12 months. That's a really big
number.
>> But we're selling as well.
>> Absolutely. This is the thing that's
interesting about this market is not
only are we deploying record amounts of
capital, we're also monetizing record
amounts of assets and returning via
distributions to our LPs. In the last 12
months, we've sold 75 billion dollars of
assets.
>> Absolutely. And you know what's
interesting is that that market, the M&A
market hasn't been strong and we had a
record year and we used different
formats. We sold partials, we used IPO
market, which we occasionally do, and
then we sold assets outright. that there
was a strong environment for the type of
investments that we have
>> and this is something we reinforced
yesterday which was our focus on those
real essential critical assets the
backbone of the global economy. The joy
of them is they produce stable and
growing streams of cash flow which means
even when market conditions are not
ideal we still have multiple levers we
can pull. We can up finance assets or
monetize them. We don't need that super
high valuation exit in order to generate
our returns. One of the things we
highlighted was we've actually had one
of our most active periods for returning
capital within real estate and private
equity. Those are two sectors that right
now the headline narrative is investors
aren't getting their money back. We're
seeing the opposite in our business
which gets us pretty excited about our
ability to grow going forward.
>> A lot of runway and the deployment side.
If you think about some of the
significant transactions we've done over
the past 12 months, Hot Wire, Colonial,
some of these
>> Duke Energy.
>> Yeah, Duke Energy. I mean, it just keeps
going. Yeah, it's been really exciting.
>> All right, so we'll leave off with this.
What are you most excited about and what
do you want to share with our listeners
about what's ahead for you
>> in terms of the market? The recovery and
the strength of the fundamentals in real
estate is we don't think fully
appreciated. The reality is the
fundamentals that support real estate
investing have been robust for 12 to 15
months now. But what's changed more
recently is the capital markets have
opened up for real estate and the
sentiment has changed. And we're seeing
that show up in transaction volumes as
well as valuations. And what's exciting
about the real estate market for our
business is if we think about this
cycle, rates are a little bit higher,
which means there's going to be a little
bit less debt in the capital structures.
It's going to lend itself to those who
can really drive value in operations
within real estate platforms and that is
what our real estate team does very
well. So I think real estate's a sector
that we are very excited about today
that we think has a lot of room to run
and maybe the market isn't speaking
about enough just about our business. We
have a great platform. it continues to
grow. But maybe what's not appreciated
is how on a repeatable and ongoing
basis, we keep finding new growth
levers. And that ensures that over an
extended period of time, we can continue
our growth trajectory of the past even
as our platform continues to scale up
and it's putting us in a position where
we should exceed our long-term targets,
not just for the next 5 years, but
beyond. That is an excellent point and
uh it's hard to follow that because
that's probably the way to end this
conversation but I'll add one more
thought because I do have a credit
background so I got to plug credit. We
have continued to expand our
capabilities uh within Brookfield and
our partner managers and we now focus on
our core competencies of asset back
finance, real assets and opportunistic
credit and I just think there's going to
be so much more growth because we really
have stuck to where there's this
distinct advantage for us and where we
can see attractive riskadjusted returns.
>> I'm left with the word opportunity from
everything you all have said. So I think
that's a good thought to leave on.
Thanks so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
[Music]
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation.
