[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale.
On this episode, LOL Baron, Ben Brown,
and Brad Hiler, three of our senior real
estate leaders, talk about recent market
dynamics and notable activities since
our last update, including the state of
the business today and the forces
driving our investment strategy. Here's
their conversation.
>> So, hi, Brad. I'm a managing partner
overseeing our European real estate
business and co-president globally. I'm
now 15 years at Brookfield, spent the
first roughly five in New York and been
in Europe since then in London. Always
good to be back in New York with Ben and
LOL, longtime colleagues, and looking
forward to the conversation. Yeah. Hey
guys. Hey everyone. Ben Brown here. I
lead our real estate business in the
Americas. Also co-president of our
global real estate business. Also been
around Brookfield for about 15 years and
headquartered here in New York.
>> Hi, Lel Baron, CEO of our real estate
business. Great to be here with you
guys. I've been with Brookfield a little
longer than both of you. So 20 years
now, which is hard to believe, but it's
great to sit down now and rehash where
we see the market environment, what's
happening on the ground across the
globe, in our markets, in our sectors.
And really, we did this maybe 18 months
ago in a relatively formal setting, just
talking through what we saw. I think
it's good to update. At that time, we
were saying this is probably one of the
best investing environments we've seen
in a long time. Why don't we start
there? What do you guys think? Have we
been right? Is that what we're seeing
over these last 18 months? I'll start. I
think in the moment it never feels as
obvious or as right, but it still feels
really, really good. It still feels like
there's enough volatility and
uncertainty which creates a tremendous
amount of opportunities for us across
our business globally, but it definitely
feels like markets have improved. And
when I look back at the activity that
we've done really across the entirety of
our real estate business the last year,
feels like we've accomplished a lot in
what has been a relatively difficult
environment. So I would say yeah on
balance it still feels really good. I
think it's mostly played out but maybe
with some fits and starts. It hasn't
been a straight line. Things have
certainly improved in terms of the
volume of transactions over the last 18
months and certainly there's capital
that's come back into the sector. We've
obviously had some success in wrapping
up our last fund raise, but I think
things picked up towards the end of last
year and the beginning of this year, but
then another bout of uncertainty
globally with geopolitics threw things
sideways at least for a couple of
months, and now maybe things are
starting to open back up again. As you
said, Ben, we we've had some success in
monetizing a bunch of large businesses
in very select sectors around the world.
We've continued to deploy capital maybe
not quite at the pace I would have
expected 18 months ago because that bit
ass spread is still there and persistent
and general level of uncertainty is
holding back a bit of the activity that
we thought would come through. I think
we still expect it to come through and
the back half of the year should pick up
in pace and I think be a lot busier than
maybe Q2 was by example.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I might pick up on that because I
think it has played out as we thought.
But probably what's been most surprising
to me has been it's been a pretty slow
recovery. Normally you think as capital
starts to come back in people see that
the fundamentals are good and then you
expect that capital builds and then
quickly you see pricing recovering and
transaction market recovering and that's
happening but very slowly. Actually it's
fantastic as an investor. It's a great
time because sometimes you worry that
those great periods of time are too
short. But here we've had a good runway
and I think it continues for a while
which is allowing us to put capital to
work in really attractive ways and I
think that volatility in the market will
continue to make this time a good
opportunity particularly if you can be
global and you can move around the
markets and do different sectors and
different regions and really be dynamic
in where you see the opportunities that
plays to our strength.
>> Yeah. And that feels like what we've
definitely seen the last year where
really now across the globe, whether
it's in our business in Asia Pacific,
our business in Europe, or even now
North America, which probably felt the
last couple months maybe the least
liquid, we've done really large
transactions in terms of exits. And
that's just proven around the globe for
the right kind of business, the right
kind of assets with the right kind of
business plan, there's still meaningful
amount of capital and depth to that
capital. And that's good. where there's
not. That's where we've been spending
our time trying to find opportunities.
And so it is an interesting pretty
dynamic environment in that way.
>> And all the ingredients are still there.
Asset values have repriced. So that's a
positive as an investor. Supply, I think
we're seeing everywhere in the world, is
muted and and dropping.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is good. We're able to buy well
below replacement cost. And you still
have all these stressed and motivated
sellers. It's the case, I think, where
lenders have been somewhat cooperative
with owners to allow them to have some
time, but that pressure continues to
build. And it's still the same thing
with redemption cues and end of life of
funds. So we're seeing stressed
investors out there that ultimately do
need to sell or transact and that's
creating all these good opportunities.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The volume of assets that
need to rotate and recycle continues to
build. And the longer that delay
happens, the more pressure it feels like
is in the system and will ultimately
come through where sellers are going to
be forced to take a clearing price that
they've been resistant to over the last
couple of years. And that's starting to
happen, but feels like could pick up
pace as we get into back half of the
year and next year.
>> We've been saying now for a long time,
hope and waiting is not a strategy
that's coming to bear out. Time is just
not creating the catalyst for people to
sort things out, whether it's broken
capital structures, overlever, lack of
capital to continue invest. That's great
because that means we can buy really
good businesses at good value and we can
take advantage of that business plan
that we can execute because we do have
that capital.
>> I think what's interesting is we're
seeing that recovery. So if you look at
our activity, we've invested about $6
billion of capital over this first half
of the year. That compares to what was 3
billion the same time last year. So
we're already doubling in our activity.
Probably the place that's even more
notable would be on the disposition side
where we've sold $13 billion of assets
in this first half. And if you'd look
back at the first half of last year,
that would have been about three
billion. So major growth in our sales.
May maybe we should talk a little bit
about that. And what I would just
broadly say, then maybe we dig into some
of the examples, but broadly say on
disposition activity is that the market
is incredibly bifrocated and we're
seeing it when we sell. So we have two
places that there's capital interested
in buying assets. It's either portfolio
companies that are best-in-class
operating platforms and that's where
we're having a lot of success selling or
it's single assets, small portfolios.
the whole middle large portfolios I'd
say is still a place that you're seeing
very little activity and very little
capital chasing. But maybe it's worth
Brad I don't know if you want to mention
Levenza just an example of what we're
seeing out there when we're going to
sell a business like that and how we're
executing on it.
>> Yeah. So, Lens is our Spanish student
housing business that we first started
to acquire back in 2019. Went through
COVID, obviously disruptive, but student
housing generally came back pretty
strong postco. And I'd say in Europe
over the last couple of years, the
periphery and southern Europe and the
non-core countries have actually
outperformed the core, which is
different than certainly the last
decade. And there's been a lot of
momentum around Spain in particular. The
interest rates have come down there,
inflation's come down, rates in Europe
have come down. Yet there aren't very
many ways to invest in market rate
residential generally and student
housing is certainly one of those ways
and there aren't many large freehold
operating platforms in scale where you
can do that. So we've built up a
business. We felt like it was the right
time to bring it to market and we had a
pretty competitive process with a number
of well- capitalized institutional
investors and sponsors. It went through
the April period of disruption in terms
of the process and what was happening in
geopolitics and that thinned it out a
bit, but it still ended up being a
fairly competitive process and we
ultimately exited at an attractive value
and return for our investors because an
institution could come in and buy a
plug-and-play business where they
continue to invest capital, continue to
compound returns in a sector that had
lots of tailwinds and attractive
fundamentals. it was the right market at
the right time in the right sector and a
business that was scalable.
>> I do think that's an important point
because what we're really selling then
to the next buyer is not just assets but
operations. I think one of the key
themes in this environment is having to
have operational expertise and
excellence. It's not like real estate 20
years ago. You can't just own an asset
and clip a coupon and that's how you
make your returns. It's all about how do
you execute business plans on the
assets? How do you create revenue
growth? How do you renovate and
reposition assets? How do you manage
expenses? All of that. So when we're
selling these operating businesses that
have that full team that we've helped
build and create the buyers are
interested in buying that. It's
interesting on that point. Lenza which
we created in 2019 pre-COVID is when we
started it. Leela which we just exited
our luxury India hotel business we
started pre-COVID. AO which is our
senior living business in Australia
which we just exited. We built that up
also pre-COVID. So all these that were
pre-COVID that were impacted directly by
CO have all turned around have all
turned into very attractive
opportunistic returns for our investors.
And it all is because of how we operate
those assets. So the theme is very
strong. And I think it just goes to tell
you who are the investors today that
going to have success. It's the ones
that have that kind of expertise.
>> Particularly in scale for larger things.
The institutional investors out there
that are deploying capital in scale are
still looking for relatively high
returns at least compared to the last 10
or 15 years versus selling smaller
assets. Single assets are more core like
where there are more yield focused
buyers at lower returns. But for the
larger things, they're looking for that
opportunity to invest in platforms that
they can grow and keep compounding.
>> Yeah, I think you hit the nail on the
head when you said the ability for them
to buy something they can continue to
invest in. We've seen that on all the
exits you just described, including
fundamental income properties, our
triple net lease business that we sold
just recently this year was another
business that we built really right on
the heels of the onset of COVID. What we
all know today is tomorrow is a little
unclear. There's still volatility.
There's still uncertainty. But in the
fullness of time, you know that you can
take these businesses and invest capital
in a creative way and continue to grow
revenues or reposition assets or bolt on
further investments to build out that
platform in even more scale. We're
really seeing investors put a real
premium on that and I think we've been
rewarded for that through all those
exits.
>> Yeah. I want to also talk about the
environment for fundraising for capital
formation because I think that also goes
to when are we going to get these wheels
of transactional activity happening?
It's when there's capital that needs to
be invested. We had our success. So, we
spent a lot of time over these last 18
months with our investors and
fundraising and we've been lucky very
successful and fortunate and raised our
largest fund ever for our opportunistic
strategy. But at the same time, we're
watching a lot of these midsize and
smaller size sponsors that are having a
tougher time. And I think we're seeing
the market in general capital is headed
towards groups like ourselves that have
the scale, have the ability to diversify
where we invest, have the operational
expertise, and that's leaving a lot of
people behind. that's becoming an
interesting investment opportunity for
us too where we can think about things
like GPLE recaps. It's an interesting
strategy that we're finding a lot of
success in because of that.
>> Yeah, the dynamic you just described is
sort of the perfect storm for this
environment of these so-called GPLE
secondaries or recaps where you really
have in many cases either in a closedend
strategy that is at maturity of its
vehicle life andor LPs who want a return
of capital and need a return of capital.
So what we've started to find is this
point of inflection where there's an
ability to be a solutions provider and
that is to come in and provide the
solution for the LP who wants to exit
and the GP who wants to continue to find
ways to continue create value through
those portfolios and in many cases be
able to frankly scale those portfolios
or those businesses and it's perfect for
our business because we can really
understand the assets because of the
scale and the breadth of our operating
businesses internally but we can
leverage people that are sharpshooters
in a specific specific sector or
geography utilize our scale and frankly
our capital to help them grow and it's
been a really great marriage where it's
opened up another breath of
opportunities from one of our strategies
and I think we found a tremendous amount
of success in that pretty early days.
say it's surprising to me. I think when
we first went into that space, we didn't
fully understand what level of
opportunities we'd find. But with these
sponsors really wanting to hold on to
their assets, we can help provide that
to them. It creates really attractive
investment opportunities for ourselves.
And it should keep picking up. If you go
back to 10 years ago where there was a
lot of capital raised in that middle
market that's now hitting into fund life
and the slowdown in the transaction
market over the last couple years,
again, it just keeps building in terms
of volume of things that need to rotate.
So it feels like there's going to be
more opportunity in that strategy over
the next couple years.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And look, we're
in an environment where it's fantastic
the fund raise that we've had and the
capital that we have at our disposal,
but we all know that was hard. That was
a challenging environment to do that in.
And there is continued, I'd say,
headwinds and probably compression in
that space for a lot of managers who are
going to have a more difficult time. So
that'll lead to more of our secondary
transactions, but frankly, it'll lead to
more consolidation with people that have
a global business, operating expertise,
and scale to keep finding these
opportunities where before there may
have been more sources of capital. It's
starting to get more difficult to find.
That gets me pretty excited at the next
couple years of the kinds of
opportunities that we're going to see.
>> And we've been talking a lot about
equity, investment opportunities. I
think credit also is a place we should
talk about because certainly been in the
headlines, everyone's talking about the
private credit opportunity that's out
there and that's growing. And we're
certainly experiencing it here at
Brookfield. Real estate credit also
feels very good. We're able to come in
at these reset basis, reset values for
real estate that we're lending against,
which gives you extra cushion. The base
rates are good. Spreads in real estate
are higher than they are in corporate.
So relative value, relative return is
high. I think credit is going to be a
pretty good growth opportunity and a
good place for people to invest their
capital for the coming years. I don't
know what you guys are seeing. Yeah,
look, there's certainly a lot of
deleveraging and refinancing that needs
to occur just given how active the
period was. Again going back whether it
was 3 years ago, 5 years ago, 7 years
ago, that wall of maturities that
everyone talks about, most of that gets
refinanced and the banks are retrenching
and private capital is there to step in
and we can and we are playing a big role
there given we've got the equity teams
to understand markets, understand
sectors, do the underwrite and oftent
times things we're looking at on the
equity side where we don't quite feel
pricing is right for the equity, but
we're very comfortable at where the
detachment points are on the debt and
make very good riskadjusted returns.
returns.
>> Yeah, I think that part of it which I
don't think any of us really thought
about as we were investing in these
spaces, but once you have same teams
working on really across all of it, all
the capital stack, you can really think
about that relative value. I want to
also talk about Office US for a second.
Office in the US, we've said it for a
long time. It's very bifurcated. The
highest quality assets are doing well.
From where we've been, at least lately,
watching the opportunities, credit for
office seems like has the higher better
relative value. It's more interesting to
us to lend an office and there's really
very few people doing it. it gives us
extra return whereas equity outright
equity buying an office. I don't know
what do you think?
>> Yeah, look I I think that's spot on. We
always say when others are fearful
that's when you should be investing and
I think that's office in a nutshell.
We've seen firsthand over the past 5
years as you said the bifurcation of
performance. It's it's actually pretty
easy now to understand the halves and
have not. So if you can focus on the
halves and you can understand the assets
that will continue to have net
absorption that have good positive net
effective rent growth you can identify
those and office is a humongous sector.
So it's actually a relatively large
opportunity set and today as you said
banks are retrenching from commercial
real estate let's say that's table
stakes they're definitely retrenching
from office there's many other things
that they would rather do on their
shopping list than office. So today when
you look at relative risk both in what
you can earn equity investing in other
sectors first credit where values have
been reset okay so that's good real
fundamentals have transparency in terms
of demand there's real cash flow
happening now at these assets and you
can insert yourself at a relatively
senior ranking very protected position
and earn historically high returns
taking very little risk. The added
benefit is because we know almost all of
these markets and frankly many of these
buildings floor by floor, we really have
a good ability to assess the risk within
that rent roll and really pick our
spots. And we're seeing probably a
mispricing on that where we can look at
some that carry what we would say a
tremendous amount more risk and others
that we would say are great assets, we
would buy them at a value, maybe they're
not available to buy and they're just
available to finance, but we're getting
paid for that. And I think there's
excess spread and excess return in
office today in credit. On the topic of
sectors, we've been saying for a while
rental housing is our highest
conviction. I throw it out to both of
you. Still the case and why?
>> Yeah, it's certainly among the highest
conviction. I maybe I'll just take
Europe whether it's student housing as
we talked about senior housing,
manufactured housing, single family
rental, a lot of them are relatively
nent and are just now developing. The
demographic story in Europe is there. So
in building these platforms and creating
these operating companies, we think is
going to be a great opportunity going
forward just given the shortage
generally of housing across the
continent.
>> It gets hard to deny the supply and
demand fundamentals of rental housing
broadly in the Americas. And the funny
thing is when you say rental housing,
we're not just talking about apartments.
There's a broad swath of rental housing
typologies. Everything from traditional
apartments to manufactured housing that
we like a lot, senior housing, student
housing, and single family rental.
Clearly, they all have slightly
different nuanced demand drivers and
slightly different nuanced supply
outlooks, but I'd say on balance, as you
said, when we started, we've crested the
peak of supply in almost every market,
at least in the US, and we still need
more housing. So, it will take a long
time for that supply to build back up
and the number of dwelling units that we
actually need to be delivered. So, the
supply side feels really good. We're
still in a high rate environment. Even
if we get a couple of rate cuts this
year, mortgage rates likely aren't going
to fall a tremendous amount. Home
ownership availability continues to be
out of reach for most Americans. And
that just continues to build a larger
and larger rental cohort. That's a long
process that will take a long time to
work its way through the system where
home ownership becomes a affordable
metric again relative to rental housing.
So for all those reasons, it's really
hard to say, "Yeah, I'm convicted more
about something else." I would say there
are some other sectors where they maybe
feel more dislocated, but clearly with
that comes some risk premium. So rental
housing is pretty undeniable in my mind.
>> I just got back from Brazil last week
and it was fascinating to just spend
time in our multif family business that
we're building there. That's an extreme
example of where there's so little
inventory and the demand is just where
buildings get delivered to us and we're
fully leased within 4 months. that
demand for rental housing continues to
grow and Brazil's one example, but
really all around the world
>> and even the areas in the US that did
have some excess supply going back a few
years ago when uh call it the
development pipe was running, those have
mostly been absorbed now and have
returned to stabilization, broadly
speaking, you'd say.
>> Yeah. And look, we all know cuz we look
at it every day, the feasibility to
start new construction is pretty far out
of reach. Hard to get construction
financing. It's expensive. Development
yields really don't justify new
construction. So I just think that
dynamic perpetuates for longer. So it
should spell really good growth across
I'd say all of those typologies really
on topline revenues. The other thing
that was obvious to me and seeing I just
go back to Brazil for one second the
multif family in Brazil was the blurring
of lines between multif family and
hospitality particularly because of
technology in that case there the
ability to really optimize your mix of
residents between short-term midterm and
long-term and doing it all through
essentially automated software that we
built that allows for optimal pricing
optimization of net operating income on
that topic of technology I just throw
that also asks both of you are you
seeing technology have a real impact on
our real estate business and in what way
would describe that. Look,
>> I'd say the biggest is what you just
said. It's yield management and figuring
out how to drive higher revenues by
leveraging technology to figure out how
to actually get the highest paying
customer in the space. And whether
that's short-term, long-term, somewhere
in the middle. Obviously, hospitality
and residential are the most relevant.
But the way we run our buildings all
over the world, I think we're far more
efficient in running them at higher
margins today than we ever have been
just using all of the technology that's
available. You probably see it most in
the office portfolio and at least
building systems in the US, but I'd say
it's pervasive across our whole
portfolio.
>> Yeah, I might add to that question then
too, which is the question I'm sure that
all of us have gotten a million times
now. AI, how's AI impacting us in real
estate?
>> So maybe it's just a continuation of
that answer, which is when I think about
our real estate business, any sector or
really any geography, like we're in the
people business. We're selling people an
experience on their vacation through our
leisure. where we're selling people
dwellings and their homes and we're
selling people an office experience and
we're selling people a retail experience
and now through AI where we're just on
the bleeding edge of really
understanding the power of many of these
tools and the generative AI tools what
we know about our customers and our
customers could be the person working at
the large financial institution in our
office that comes here every day that
then goes downstairs and shops and then
leaves and may rent an apartment from us
and then goes on vacation and is a hotel
customer. It was very hard in the past
to knit all of those things together and
they were very siloed and we sort of
knew broad brush where demand was and
who our customer was. Now we really
really can utilize AI to understand
usage, demand profiles, customer
profiles, customer acquisition costs.
We're starting to think much more, I
hate to say it, like how technology
companies think about acquiring their
customers than oldline real estate
businesses think about leasing space.
And to your point on yield optimization,
the ability to really understand that, I
think our model in Brazil is fantastic.
And I think we've gotten there almost by
accident where the system we were using
was really to leverage short-term stays
and then we started to yield medium-term
stays and now we can find the right pie
chart and balance of long, medium, and
short and really optimize. You take that
and extrapolate that over the next
couple years when these models get
better and better with global business.
And then you think about the broader
Brookfield, what we understand in our
operating business and private equity,
what we understand our infrastructure
business, man, when we can harness that,
it's going to be an absolute gamecher.
So, we're starting to see it. I'm pretty
excited about what I think we can
actually do with it. Like I think where
we're going and it's probably not too
far off is really into these predictive
analytics which is then taking advantage
of all the data that's out there that's
third party and that we have access to
but then add to it all of our data
across our $300 billion real estate
portfolio and across our trillion dollar
asset management portfolio across
Brookfield and what do we know about
markets and micro markets and businesses
and be able to use that to actually
predict which markets which property
types what should we be investing in and
we're just starting to see it in things
like our single family rental where we
are picking our markets or and some of
our logistics where we're also same
thing into picking which markets we see
better than anyone else where the growth
is going to come from and how much we're
just at the start and that's going to
impact our business and real estate
broadly I think in a big way coming and
it's not that far off
>> there's no doubt
>> so we talked a lot about where we are
but I guess the question is where are we
going what are you guys most excited
about what do you see as the big
opportunity for us going forward
>> well it would be hard not to include
data centers and the growth in digital
real estate that is happening and is
going to happen over the next decade.
The numbers are extraordinary. And what
we found is that we're actually already
sitting on a lot of the raw material,
which is the sites, things that we've
acquired over the last number of years
for other uses, mostly logistics, but in
some cases residential development or
science parks where we are now working
with our colleagues on the power side
and our renewables business as well as
our infrastructure business who have
data center developers in house and have
these really long relationships with the
largest hyperscalers in the world.
Bringing all of that together is really
exciting. And to see the power of
Brookfield at work across all these
different disciplines to capitalize on
what is going to be the largest capital
investment cycle that we've seen in a
generation. Clearly, it's going to be
pretty unique. Not everyone's going to
be a winner in this space, but I think
given our setup, our history, our
relationships, were extremely well
positioned. And to see it all come
together has been pretty exciting. I
don't want to overstate it, but this is
a dynamic where it feels like everyone
just got to the party and we've been
standing around like we've been here.
We've been investing in data centers in
our broader business for the better part
of 14 years. Everyone's woken up. It's a
very different business now and the
users and the quantum of compute and
power and demand and dollars that will
need to be invested are much different
than they were 5 years ago. But to your
point, it's kind of amazing in our
business where you look at our land and
housing development business, our
traditional real estate logistics
business, infrastructure, etc., where we
have so many tethers into controlling
and owning land, having access to power,
having a relationship with the end
users. It's hard to see how we don't
have a huge competitive advantage there.
And to your point, there's always a lot
of exuberance around these things and
not everyone will get it right, but it's
pretty exciting dynamic when you can
knit together all of those different
businesses that have a unique knowhow,
source of capital, source of power,
control of land, put those together and
create these projects. It's fantastic.
And we're doing it in Europe and we're
doing it in the US and we'll do it
globally. That's going to be a great
engine of growth for our business.
>> Yeah, I have to fully agree. think it's
a huge opportunity for us and everyone's
sort of aware of it but not too many
people can do it which is what makes it
so interesting and I do think there's
going to be a number of people that stub
their toes or maybe worse here because
it's a bit of a gold rush but if you
don't have all those capabilities you
will make a mistake and you go in and
you say I'm going to go develop this and
I think I have the power and then I
don't have the power that's fatal flaw
there are people things we're watching
that I think won't end that well but
having all those capabilities that we
have and put it together allows you to
do it in a way that's pretty riskaverse
which is fantastic Ben what are you most
excited excited about.
>> I'll answer it maybe more broadly than
specifically one of our markets or
sectors. Maybe what I'm excited about is
what also keeps us up at night or has
been challenging over the past couple
years which is we continue to live in
this world that has a tremendous amount
of volatility really a shifting and
changing dynamic whether it's
geopolitics or global trade or capital
flows. But I get really excited about
all that dislocation because we've got a
lot of dry powder and a lot of knowhow
and a lot of areas where I think we can
exploit that. So, I'm pretty excited
about the fact that it's not clear
what's obvious. It's not clear what the
best investment idea is. We'll figure it
out. We'll build conviction around it
and we're doing that and I think we have
been doing that. But these sorts of
environments, we were talking about this
yesterday, post global financial crisis,
we were all sitting in some similar role
here working together and everything we
were doing, it felt pretty difficult and
it felt pretty uncertain. And when you
look back, of course, the fullness of
time and with hindsight, you went, "Wow,
we bought amazing businesses. We bought
amazing portfolios and look what
happened and we learned a lot and we
built great businesses and we built
expertise. I think this is that
environment now where we'll look back
five 7 10 years and we'll be like we got
into this sector. We doubled down on
this trend. We really saw something and
we built the engine of growth for the
next 5 or 10 years of our business. I
think that's now. So just just the
environment right now is what's
exciting.
>> Yeah, I agree. If I were to say where I
think we are, I think we're in the
second inning of a new cycle and a new
recovery. So that's exciting to be at
the early stages. The other thing that I
think will become clear as the dust
settles over what has transpired in the
last five years in real estate. Been a
really tough five years for the sector
for the industry gone through a lot co
huge disruption then interest rates
moving like they have geopolitical
volatility all of it. There's been a lot
going on in this world in the last 5
years and when the dust settles we'll
have done quite well. We all have come
through this in a very strong position.
We've made the right investments. We've
diversified our portfolio as well. Part
of what I'm excited about actually is
being able to see that in facts and in
numbers and we're seeing it now as we're
doing all these exits. You talked about
Levenza. I might mention Aveo in that
same regard. AO, we bought this senior
living business in Australia in 2019.
You probably couldn't have timed it
worse in retrospect. And the whole
premise was to take a public company
that was dysfunctional in terms of
management, take it over, bring in new
management, turn it around, and suddenly
we get hit with COVID when we didn't
even have a management team and we're
trying to figure out how to manage
senior living assets were probably the
most dangerous place. Honestly, it was
scary that we were in charge of this and
in charge of people's lives. Now, you
look back at how we turned it around and
brought in a whole new management team
and protected our residents and created
an incredible brand name and quality of
portfolio and turns it into
opportunistic returns. It's fantastic
and it's just indicative of a lot of
these businesses that we built. So,
we're going to come through all this
with flying colors and that just will
power our business. We see it already
and our investors voting with their feet
and putting their capital to work with
us, but I think that's just going to
grow from here. Why don't we wrap it up
here? This is a great conversation.
Really good to do it. Thanks, Brad.
Thanks, Ben.
>> Always.
>> Thanks.
>> This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
