[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. Today we have
another edition of Deal Debrief where we
get the download on recent transactions
from the people who put them together.
On this episode, we're joined by Frank
Yu and Ursen Olivan, managing partners
in our private equity group and co-heads
of Brookfield's special investments
strategy to talk about Spring Education
Group, a private education platform,
which we invested in earlier this year.
Frank Ersen, welcome to the podcast.
Urs, why don't you introduce yourself
and tell us what you do at Brookfield?
>> Sure. Ursen Olivan. I'm a managing
partner in our private equity business.
I've been with Brookfield for over 15
years now, all within our private equity
group. Had the opportunity to work on a
number of different deals, number of
different initiatives across our various
strategies within our group, ranging
from buyouts to capital solutions and
then today I co-head our non-control
flexible capital strategy together with
Frank.
>> Has it been 15 years in PE?
>> Yeah.
>> Wow. All private equity.
>> I joined in 2010. I joined in Vancouver
actually.
>> Nice. That's great. And how about you,
Frank? Thanks for having me. So Frank,
you I'm one of the managing partners in
private equity as well and as Ursen
mentioned co-head our capital solutions
business underneath private equity. A
little bit of a newer joiner to the
Brookfield family. I've been here since
2019 but have been working in the called
the flexible capital space for virtually
my entire career. So I've been doing
this for quite some time.
>> Great to have you. We're here to talk
about spring education, which sometimes
people don't always think about
education as the kind of sector that
financial services might intersect with.
So, it would be great, especially for
those who don't really think of private
education as its own, let's say, quote
unquote, asset class. How do we think
about that space? Why is it maybe an
interesting or an attractive space for
investment?
>> Look, I would say you're absolutely
right. This is an asset class that has
been institutionalizing for private
capital for quite some time. We've been
spending quite a lot of time just in
this space really understanding a little
bit better. But I would say that there's
really three key things when you take a
step back and think about what really
attracted us into private education.
First, there's been a very long-term
secular shift towards private education.
If you think about, we'll pick on the US
as one of the geographies, just a der of
public funding. You're seeing that today
at the state and local levels. So as a
result there's a need for alternatives
for families, for parents and just
finding the right academic outcomes. So
folks are looking for those alternatives
and that's been a nice positive tailwind
which we expect will continue on for
quite some time. The second piece of it
is if you look at the sector um you know
going back 10 15 20 years these were
mostly mom and pops single shingle type
of schools and very obviously education
focused but it wasn't necessarily ripe
for private capital at that time. Over
the last 10 years that has
institutionalized quite a lot. So while
it's still relatively fragmented, what
we're seeing is there's a few platforms
now that have actually consolidated and
actually professionalized those
businesses into a private for-profit
business. And the final piece which we
can dive a little bit more into is if
you look at the actual business model,
it's highly attractive. We think about
it as effectively critical social
infrastructure. These are essential
services where you effectively get
long-term contracts with families. So
once a parent puts their kid into a
school, the last thing they want to do
is take that kid out, unless you
physically are moving. And the business
models themselves, if you think about
from a private capital perspective, is
attractive just given really high
ROIC's. So return on invested capital
for every single dollar you're putting
to work in the ground, the company can
actually make a really good profit
coming out of that.
>> Sounds like a lot of our other
investments, a lot of downside
protection, right?
Exactly.
>> So tell us a little bit more about
Spring Education. What kind of school
and education company is it?
>> Yeah, the business is actually a
consolidation of three different
platforms that was actually put together
about six or seven years ago. Today,
it's the largest private education
platform here in the US. And what that
means is the entire company today has
over 200 schools operating in roughly
about 20 states across the US. Serves
over 40,000 students annually. The
offering itself is the full spectrum
from preK all the way through 12th
grade. Now, they operate a number of
different brands across those states
that I mentioned, but the ones that our
listeners may be familiar with, there's
two brands. One is a national level
brand and the other one is a regional
brand. The national one is Basis
Independent. They're on the East Coast
and the West Coast, typically in major
cities. And the regional one is
Stratford, which is one of the dominant
brands in California. And what the
company really offers is really high
academic outcomes but at a valuebased
price especially compared to what we
think about as legacy private schools.
So to give you an example I'll just pick
on one of the brands which is basis.
This is a brand that has been operating
for quite some time. The average SAT
score for its students is over 1480.
Average AP scores that high schoolers
are taking is over 4.5.
So creating really good academic
outcomes which results in the students
entering into top universities across
the country. So it's very exciting. It
is specifically catered towards that
demographic and that type of experience
that parents and families want from
their students but it's at a very
affordable price point. And the reason
for that is this is the most scaled
player. and therefore its cost
structure, its ability to really get
great outcomes just has advantages over
those individualized mom and pops that
are out in the market.
>> Nice. Let's break down what happened
with that ultimate transaction. Can you
just tell us a bit more about it about
how we find these investments that
ultimately become a very good fit for
Brookfield? So I'd say similar to Spring
and our other opportunities that we look
at, I think what we're really looking
for are things that really fit well with
our strategy and things that fit well
with what we do more broadly across
private equity. So I'd say Spring's a
great example where one, it's a
highquality business, provides essential
products and services. As Frank
mentioned, it's pretty much social
infrastructure. Spring itself is a
market leader, generates very
predictable infrastructure-like cash
flows. So we think it's a great
business. I would say second is it
really ties to our focus of being a
strategic partner where we can leverage
both our operating capabilities across
our private equity group as well as the
link that we have to the broader
Brookfield ecosystem. So with respect to
spring great example that is a large
part of the business is managing its
real estate footprint. That's an area
that we've been able to really lend our
expertise. And then I would say third is
as you point out our focus on downside
protection but at the same time having
some upside participation as part of our
investment. So again spring is a great
example of this. We've got really strong
downside protection by being more senior
in the capital structure. We've got a
contractual rate of return. We have
strong rates and governance but at the
same time we have an ability to
participate in the upside and the equity
value that we are helping create in the
business. Yeah, that's a good point
because I was thinking about, you know,
some of the deals we talk about are
billions or multi-billions of dollars.
What is the investment opportunity size
maybe in education that might be
different than some of the other more,
let's say, general infrastructure kind
of projects we look at?
>> I would say in private education because
of what is a very large TAM, but it's
still quite fragmented. That
consolidation play has actually driven
opportunities that we can put in very
much scaled capital. In spring, we ended
up investing on just this deal $825
million of our own capital. We led the
deal and brought alongside our partners,
our clients to sort of co-invest
alongside with us. Again, very scaled.
And I'd say going back to just the
sourcing of it, cuz I think Urs's
absolutely right around sort of how we
started at a very high level. What's
unique about what we do, and this is
both across all of Brookfield, but
obviously within our private equity
business, is when we find sectors and
themes that we really focus on, we go
pretty deep. And so I mentioned we've
been looking at the private education
space for some period of time. And we
had gotten actually to know the business
about 2 years before we did this deal
earlier this year. So it was a long-term
relationship that we built with the
management team as well as the owners of
the business. And it just so happened
that the owners were working through a
process that was just different than
what we ended up doing, different format
of capital. And they decided that was
not the right answer for them. And
because we had this very bilateral
conversation in the background, getting
to know each other, getting to
understand the Brookfield value ad and
sort of how we invest, we ultimately
came to a set of terms where we were
providing them very flexible, creative
capital that solved a bunch of the
things that they were seeking for. and
it wasn't neatly packaged in the market
in sort of the traditional sense. And so
we think about this one as something
that's very unique. It's representative
of our non-control flexible capital
strategy, but these things take time.
They take a lot of effort. And what's
great about it is most of them just end
up being truly customized solutions for
the counterparties.
>> Yeah, you are alluding to something that
I want you to help unpack for us a bit
more, which is what is flexible capital
solutions really mean. So in this case,
Spring maybe wasn't thinking about a
very basic maybe equity only deal. But
what do we mean when we say flexible
capital? What does that entail?
>> Yeah, I think that the way we think
about flexible capital solutions is
again providing flexible strategic
capital to businesses, owners, sponsors
in a non-control structured format where
we're blending features between debt and
equity. In fact, we can do this in
either a primary format where we're
providing capital to help grow a
business, growth capital for M&A,
capital to help recapitalize a balance
sheet, or in a secondary format, we're
surfacing liquidity for a founder or
sponsor. And in fact, in many cases,
tying back to the flexible point, we
actually do both in the same
transaction. Yeah. And I would just add
on to that Urs, I think those are, you
know, the catalyst that always come
about. What's also very unique about
what we do is we don't have this uh
template form of capital that we utilize
in each approach. It really is about
listening to the counterparties to the
companies, the management teams, owners,
whoever it is that we're working with,
figuring out what their needs are. And
our strategy allows us to be when we say
flexible, it really is thinking about
all the different solutions. So we can
sometimes go up and down that capital
structure and think about what may make
the most sense. Sometimes it's a little
bit more debt like instruments because
that's the right solution for the
counterparty. Other times it's more
equity-like and in fact most of the
times it's actually this hybrid
instrument where you have a little bit
of best of the both worlds and that's
not readily available in the market. So
these companies aren't just uh tapping
into the broadly syndicated credit
markets or they're doing a on ther run
equity offering, but they want something
a little bit more customized. And I
think what's really unique about our
strategy is Frank's point about trying
to find a solution for a need. I think
it's not only the capital need that
we're trying to find a solution for.
It's also is there a strategic need that
we can help with. Again, Spring's a
great example. Is there an area within
the business where we can lend our
expertise, lend our operational
capability and we can be a really value
add strategic partner for somebody to
help them grow the business, grow the
equity value in their business, which
again for us it's always that balance
between downside protection and upside
participation and participate in the
upside that we're helping create in the
business.
>> Yeah. And as you describe it, it's like
really acting like an owner in the
trenches alongside these organizations
and partners that we have.
>> Absolutely. I would say we're very
active investors on that front even
though we're not in control. So what the
counterparties get from us isn't just
capital but they get all the resources
that our private equity business has to
offer.
>> Yeah. And that's probably a good segue
as well to this idea of this really 360
partnership. It's not just the capital
and it's not just the operational
support. It's really the whole thing
together and the flywheel effect of
that. So let's bring it back to Spring
specifically. What does the next step or
the future of that partnership now look
like?
>> Yeah, I think it's a couple aspects. I
think one, as I mentioned, large part of
the business is its real estate
footprint. I think it's helping them
manage that, helping them optimize that,
and again, that's an area where just
given our platform across Brookfield, we
can really lend our expertise, be a
strategic partner with them in terms of
how they're developing that portfolio.
And then I think the second is just the
operating capabilities that we have to
offer to the business. One thing that
we've done in the business is we
provided input into things like
requisite organization. In fact, our
partner has been very welcoming of our
input. And a great example of that is,
as Frank would say, even as we were
working through our diligence before we
even signed the transaction, that
partnership was already beginning to
develop. And in fact, the management
team had come to us asking for input on
certain hires they were making, even
before signing, between signing and
close. They actually very much welcomed
our involvement just in their process
because just through all this time we
spent with them, we were able to show
them how we could be a value ad
strategic partner. And I would fast
forward to today cuz you're absolutely
right, that partnership started so
early. We actually had the CEO of Spring
in our offices this morning and we were
just going through a number of items.
What's great about the partnership is at
the end of the meeting, there was one
topic that we were focused on, but he
said, "Yo, look, I've got three other
items on my list. Can I just run them by
you really quickly?" And the three items
just tie back to what Ursen mentioned.
One is he wanted to have another session
with our real estate colleagues because
there's a number of new denovo builds
that we as a business are looking at.
So, you can think about our data science
team on the real estate side, our
financing capabilities on the real
estate side that just can add value to
this company right off the bat. And then
the second piece of it is from our
operating side. We've got a number of
board seats in the company. And so one
of our operating partners who worked on
the deal alongside with all of us from
day one has been working with the CEO,
the CFO and thinking about what is the
right org design as we continue to grow
this business. And there's multiple
divisions and segments and geographies
obviously across sort of the portfolio.
So sort of doing that in a very
institutionalized and growth partnership
way. I think that's what got them super
excited and we're only a few months into
this relationship with them. But I'd say
that they're probably already utilizing
as much as they possibly can get and and
probably drink out of fire.
>> It sounds like that, right? I mean, a
lot of value add in ways that sometimes
you want to have a school feel like a
school, but sometimes there's a lot of
thinking around just structure and
process and framework that can really
make that even better.
>> I think one really unique part of Boer
Strategy, and we've spoken about bespoke
customized a few times. I think what
that does Ashley is it allows us to
create the partnership early because in
many ways as we're working through our
process with the company again we're
trying to understand what their needs
are from both a capital and a strategic
perspective it becomes very much a
partnership solutionsoriented approach
even as we're working through the
negotiations on a transaction. So
actually the partnership starts well
before closing, well before signing and
it starts when we're trying to develop
this highly bespoke, highly customized,
tailored solution that meets the needs
that our counterparty is looking for.
>> And that actually makes me think of you
had mentioned to me that there was
another education company that we have
also partnered with before. I'm just
curious, are you starting to see trends
and similarities across different
partners in this general space? Are
there unique aspects based on geography
or based on culture? How is that
starting to take shape? Yeah, I I think
the overall sector is very similar in a
lot of ways. So some of the
characteristics that we mentioned around
the underlying sector tailwinds, the
great business models, high free cash
flow conversions, high ROIC's, those are
generally for the best-in-class players,
pretty similar across geographies. You
will see some differences in local
geographies where the underlying
pinnings of it, whether it's on the
volume or the price side, the drivers
may be a little bit different. But
overall, the reason why we like the
space is it's highly scalable. The
trends are here for a relatively long
period of time and there's areas where
we can pick and we can actually add
still a lot of value. So we have
approached this thesis and this theme
really on a global basis. So spring is
the largest player in the US and we are
super excited and partner with them on
that. We do have another investment in
the Middle East also with the largest
player there and then we continue to
look at other areas globally where for
the right platform for the right partner
we would love to make another investment
at the right time. I would just say
again what we like about private
education just aligns more broadly with
what we like across our entire strategy.
It aligns well with what we're doing
across our broader private equity
business, which is focusing on
highquality businesses, market leaders
that provide essential products and
services, being a scaled and value ad
strategic partner, and then at least for
us when we're investing, again, having
that right balance between downside
protection and upside participation that
we look for in all of our investments.
>> I can't think of anything more essential
than school at this moment. So, that
that definitely tracks for me. So that
then lends me to open up the aperture a
little bit and say, so are there general
trends that you are seeing as it relates
to the kinds of potential partners that
need flexible capital solutions? We're
talking about education here as one, but
just in the time and place that we sit,
how else are we seeing market forces or
other things at play?
>> Yeah, I think the way to think about it
is our strategy, it's an all-w
weatherather strategy, so we are
investing across all periods of the
cycle. But what's very unique about
where we are today is we are going
through a bit of volatility and you're
smiling only because I think we all know
what that means from obviously the
economy the capital markets etc. What's
fascinating is if we look back at our
business, I don't know if you agree, but
over the last probably 6 n months or so,
two prevailing themes have really shaken
out. One is what I would call the DPI
trade. And what that means is because
the capital markets have ebed and flowed
a bit where sometimes it's open,
sometimes it's shut. Owners of
businesses haven't had a reliable window
to actually sell their businesses and
create liquidity for themselves. So, our
type of capital where the flexibility
and being in a non-control position
actually helps solve for that. We're
getting a lot of deal flow where folks
are saying, "I really need to continue
growing the business. I'm not ready for
a full sale yet. So, I need to bring in
a strategic partner, but I need flexible
capital cuz I don't really want to put
on more debt and doing a pure equity
issuance may be very dilutive." So, huge
catalyst one, which is the DPI trade.
DPI is basically distributions paid in.
And what that means is for every dollar
that you've invested, how much capital
have you've taken out over time? And
then the second trade I'd say we're
seeing quite often is the refinancing of
capital structures. This has been
building up in the system for quite some
time. Obviously, when we had very low
interest rates and everybody was rushing
to refinance the capital structures,
which was absolutely the right move at
that time. What we're seeing now is a
lot of maturities are coming due. And
what we're also seeing is because of
where interest rates have moved over the
last several years, they're still
relatively high despite obviously some
of the forward forecast that people are
projecting. That high interest rate has
actually created a potential capital
structure imbalance. So what we're
seeing are basically great businesses
but broken balance sheets and a
opportunity to really get into those
businesses to help refinance their
capital structure with something a
little bit more flexible and again
create that strategic partnership with
those companies to continue that leg of
growth over the next 3 to five more
years.
>> Yeah, I think Frank said it well. Maybe
just another one I think I would add is
beyond the two catalysts that Frank
mentioned are just opportunities to
provide growth capital which may not
always seem like it aligns well with
just the volatility that you're seeing
in the current market environment. I
think what we would say is what we're
seeing is for businesses that are
fortunate enough to be on the offensive.
It can sometimes be a bit more
challenging to find traditional forms of
capital in what is a more uncertain or
volatile environment. So what our
capital can do is again it can be quite
attractive. It's flexible. It's
strategic. So for businesses looking to
be more on the offensive, whether it's
transformational acquisitions, tuck in
acquisitions, or other ways our capital
can help accelerate growth in their
business, again, we can provide a
solution that can allow a business to
capitalize on uncertainty in a certain
market environment.
>> We're in a quite interesting and
uncertain time compared to where we
might have thought we were uncertain 5
years ago in the depth of a pandemic. So
the only takeaway I have from that is
you never know.
>> Exactly. Yeah. And that's the kind of
flexibility and elasticity that you want
in a partner, but also in a real
partnership like this.
>> Exactly.
>> Where there's a lot on the table.
>> Totally agree.
>> So, you've been in the trenches with
these partners of yours now for quite
some time. Like you said, this can start
2 years or more before a transaction.
We're finally working deeply together on
all of our shared goals. Has there been
anything that's really surprised you or
gotten you excited about the space in a
way you didn't expect? now that you know
so much about how it works.
>> Yeah, I would say maybe it's just a
surprise, but maybe it shouldn't be so
surprising is it's always just
interesting to see just how welcoming
some of our partners are and
specifically in the case of Spring, just
how welcoming they are to our
partnership and how they've embraced us
and welcomed us in as partners. The
examples that we talked about such as
getting our input on the management
team, getting us involved in the
business even before signing, asking us
questions around how we can help
optimize the real estate portfolio. I
think that's a great example and there's
always examples like that in every
situation, every opportunity that we
look at. But I think that's always
something that's interesting to see as
these transactions and these
partnerships develop.
>> Yeah. Treating feedback as the gift,
huh?
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> I would add maybe more of an interesting
tidbit and this was quite exciting about
a year ago when we were working pretty
actively on the deal. It just so
happened that it was during the time of
the US Open and so obviously there were
a lot of Americans that were doing
really really well through that
tournament. One of the offerings that
Spring has is an online education
platform. It's called Laurel Springs.
It's one of the largest in the US. And
what they cater to are effectively very
high performing students that aren't
physically able to attend school. And so
what that translates to is a number of
the American tennis players are actually
Laurel Springs alum. So the ones that
come to mind, Francis Tafo, Taylor
Fritz, all alums. I think the school is
very proud of that and obviously have
been able to support them as they've
been going through their career journeys
on top of obviously getting a fantastic
education.
>> Yeah, we're hitting it out of the out of
the stadium right online and on the
court. That's amazing.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Very cool. I didn't know that.
>> Maybe one thing I'll add more broadly
that always amazes me is just the
opportunity set in the space. And
actually a lot of people may not
appreciate this, but we ourselves at
Brookfield and within our private equity
business have been doing this type of
investing for 25, 30 years, providing
flexible capital solutions, being a
strategic partner to a partner where we
can add value. And what's amazed me,
especially more recently, is just the
opportunity set that we have in front of
us. And again, we focus on the things
that we're good at, focus on businesses
that provide essential products and
services, businesses where we can be a
real strategic partner to somebody. And
I think for us what amazes me is that
opportunity set only continues to grow.
>> Well, and it's an interesting meta layer
here like being an eternal student even
of the education sector allows you, as
you say, to really open up this offering
to any kind of business, any kind of
challenge, any kind of gap where we
could really be a helpful partner.
>> Exactly.
>> Well, on to the next. Thank you both.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
[Music]
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
