[Music]
Brookfield Corporation letter to
shareholders Q2 2025.
Overview.
Financial performance was strong in the
second quarter, supported by continued
momentum across our core businesses and
the significant pickup in transaction
activity. Strong underlying fundamentals
drove demand and supported cash flow
growth in both our asset management and
operating businesses. Our wealth
solutions business continues to grow its
asset base, leveraging our investment
capabilities to drive returns. The
business recently announced an agreement
to acquire Just Group, a UK leader in
pension risk transfer solutions for $3.2
billion. Building on the foundation we
have established in the UK and following
the successful licensing and launch of
our UK business earlier this year as one
of the largest infrastructure and
property investors in the country. If
successful, this acquisition will enable
our business to grow substantially.
Despite the multiple geopolitical issues
and tariff turmoil, global equities
reached new all-time highs. Credit
spreads tightened and interest rates
remained largely unchanged and are
expected to start going down on the
short end soon. US economic data
continued to be resilient in spite of
fluid trade negotiations and while the
timing and outcomes still remain
uncertain, our business continues to be
largely unaffected.
The relative calm and supportive posture
of global markets led to an increase in
monetization activity. Year to date, we
sold over $55 billion of assets.
Financing markets are also strong,
enabling us to complete $94 billion of
financings across the franchise this
year. Against an increasingly
constructive market backdrop, the key
themes that ground our capital
deployment, digitalization,
deglobalization, and decarbonization are
accelerating. With a record $177 billion
of deployable capital, we are well
positioned to capitalize on
opportunities. And as stability and
liquidity in the capital markets come
back, monetization activity grows for
the types of highquality businesses and
assets we own. We announce the split of
our shares on a three for two basis.
While this action does not impact the
underlying value of the corporation, it
costs us virtually nothing to do and
ensures our shares are accessible to a
broad base of investors.
Monetizations are back. Market sentiment
is improving and is increasingly
supportive for highquality asset
transactions. To date this year, we sold
over $55 billion of assets across the
business. Substantially all sales were
at or above our carrying values,
monetizing significant value for our
clients at attractive returns. In real
estate, our 15 billion of asset sales
included a number of landmark
transactions diversified across
geographies and sectors. We successfully
completed the initial public offering of
Leela Palaces Hotels and Resorts, our
luxury hotel portfolio across India, a
transaction that valued the business at
$1.8 billion. The IPO was 4.5 times
oversubscribed, reflecting strong demand
from both domestic and global investors.
In Europe, we sold Marin Nostrom Resort,
a beachfront property in Tenneref,
Spain, for €433 million, marking the
largest single asset hotel trade ever in
Spain. We sold Levenza Living, a student
housing platform in southern Europe
for€1.2 billion. In Australia, we
completed the sale of a senior living
platform for 3.85 billion. in Australian
dollars, generating a 19% irr and a 2.3
times multiple of capital. In the US, we
closed on the sale of a triple net lease
platform for $2.2 billion.
These transactions all crystallized
strong riskadjusted returns and
generated significant cash flow for our
investors. In energy, we sold $7 billion
of assets this year, reflecting the
sustained global demand for highquality
renewable power assets. We closed the
sale of a 25% stake in Shepherd's Flat,
one of the largest wind farms in the US,
and we sold a minority interest in a
portfolio of stable operating US hydro
assets. We also completed the partial
sale of a South American hydro platform
from the third vintage of our flagship
infrastructure fund, fully exiting the
fund stake in the investment. Since our
initial investment in 2016, the business
has consistently delivered strong
performance and its outlook remains
strong to date. This year, our energy
monetizations achieved an aggregate 17%
irr, underscoring the strength of our
strategy and execution.
In infrastructure, we continued to
advance our monetization pipeline,
generating nearly 13 billion in proceeds
through a series of strategic exits and
partial sales. We completed the sale of
our remaining interest in a US gas
pipeline, generating approximately $1.4
billion in proceeds and closed the sale
of minority stake in our export
facilities for metallurgical coal. We
also sold 60% of PD ports, one of the
UK's largest port operations, for
approximately 1.3 billion of proceeds,
achieving a 19% irr and a 7.5 times
multiple of capital. At our European
hypers scale data center platform, we
also agreed to sell an incremental 60%
stake in a 244 megawatt portfolio of
operating sites for $2.4 billion.
In Australia, we disposed of part of our
container terminal operation for $2
billion, generating a 17% irra and
nearly a four times multiple of capital.
Finally, we sold 33% of a portfolio of
fully contracted containers at our
global intermodal logistics operation,
which to date has generated $1.7
billion.
Today, we invest in insurance. The
future is insurance financed investing.
With $180 billion of capital, our
Brookfield Corporation balance sheet has
one of the largest pools of
discretionary capital globally. Today,
this is predominantly invested into real
assets beside our asset management
clients where we have deep investing and
operating expertise and a strong track
record of investment returns over a long
period of time. Despite being very
moderately financed, hence very
riskaverse, we have compounded returns
for our shareholders at 18% peranom over
the last 30 years. Our long-term plan is
to further enhance the efficiency of our
capital structure, thereby enhancing the
returns we can earn on our equity
without changing the risk profile of the
business. This is being done by
refocusing overall Brookfield as an
investment insurance organization using
our large-scale capital base to back
longduration low-risk insurance. On the
asset side of the balance sheet, we
remain focused on the same asset classes
where we have proven best-in-class
investment skills which are ideally
suited for insurance.
To date, we have had two primary sources
of capital. Our balance sheet and
institutional client capital in our
asset management business. In our next
evolution, we are focusing our balance
sheet to back our growing insurance
operations, meaning that our capital
will increasingly come from individual
investors via our insurance float.
Today, our $135 billion insurance flow
consists of largely longduration fixed
rate annuities, effectively savings
products sold to individuals, whereby we
promise to pay an annual coupon of
roughly 5% and repay the principle at
the end of a roughly 7 to 15year term.
These policies are very low risk in
nature and we can use this float to
invest in assets within the parameters
set out by the insurance regulators.
The types of assets best suited for this
capital are moderate risk alternatives
and credit products, both of which align
well with our investment expertise. We
intend to allocate further equity
capital to our annuity business. And
over time, the equity base backing these
policies could increase to 75 to 100
billion, allowing us to grow our annuity
book to 500 to $750 billion.
Today, a small portion of the business,
$3.5 billion of equity and $8 billion of
assets, backs insurance written for the
property and casualty market. Over time,
the equity could grow to 30 to50
billion, which in turn should underpin a
book of 100 to $150 billion of PNC
insurance.
Equity investments are ideally suited
for the assets that support property and
casualty liabilities and align well with
our investment capabilities.
Property and casualty insurance may
sound complicated, but it's not. You all
buy it for your car, house, your
business, or other things you ensure in
everyday life. Importantly, we are
focused on writing low-risk specialty
lines of business where we have a
competitive edge and can therefore
operate profitably and at scale. Our
internal knowledge gives us confidence
to write policies, but more importantly
informs us when markets get too
competitive and we should stop writing
business until the market is less
competitive and just use our capital
elsewhere. Today, we write policies for
real estate construction in New York
State. Because we have immense real
estate knowledge and understand
construction risks intimately, we have
confidence that we can price
construction insurance like few others
can. And we intend to expand this
business across the US and
internationally.
In another example, we provide insurance
for industrial warehouses, renewable
power facilities, and industrial plants.
Again, we understand these businesses
very well, having operated them for
decades, which means that we come at
this insurance with a different and much
more informed lens than most. Our goal
is to dominate some specific lines of
business over time by focusing on the
asset classes that Brookfield knows
best. Our intention is to continue to
fund our insurance operations from the
Brookfield Corporation balance sheet.
This gives great comfort to our
regulators that our dollars underpin the
policies we ensure for individuals.
When we established this business, we
originally intended it to be one arm of
Brookfield. However, after 5 years of
meaningful growth behind us and seeing
the large number of opportunities ahead
as the industry evolves, this business
is becoming an increasingly foundational
component of our vision for Brookfield
over the long term. Stay tuned as we
move forward. AI factories are the next
major asset class. We are launching a
strategy for development of AI
infrastructure, including AI factories
as the next evolution of the buildout of
the global economy over the next 5
years. This will create a new asset
class within the overall infrastructure
investment landscape and with it drive
the next evolution of our long-term plan
to dominate asset classes related to
investment into backbone infrastructure.
This started 30 years ago with real
estate move to pipelines and electrical
transmission lines and has recently been
led by renewable power data centers,
fiber lines and telecom towers. AI
infrastructure is the natural next
frontier providing the essential compute
and power backbone for the AIdriven
global economy. We own or are working to
assemble all the pieces of our first
seven major AI compute sites which will
be built out over the next 5 years and
require around $200 billion of capital.
These sites include two in Europe which
will scale to plus or minus $40 billion.
two in the US with a cost upwards of $75
billion, one in the UK for $20 billion,
and two in Canada for close to $50
billion. These sites will include power,
data center shells, and the equipment to
provide compute capacity to the industry
leaders of artificial intelligence,
governments, and corporates seeking
compute capacity.
This effort draws on the strength of our
global operating teams in real estate,
power, and infrastructure. Each a global
leader in its category. The combination
of our unparalleled operating skills in
these three areas coupled with our
access to scale capital should make us
one of the unique counterparties to
achieve success with this strategy.
The scale of just these seven current
developments is around 6 gaw of compute
infrastructure capacity. The total
investments for these seven sites of
$200 billion including chips and
processing servers will be provided from
our various funding sources including
senior financing and new funds which are
being raised specifically for this
purpose. This is similar to the split
off of transition from our
infrastructure group 5 years ago. To
advance our AI factory buildouts, we are
collaborating with a number of large
technology firms. Our partners are
providing us access to high performance
computing hardware as well as offtake
agreements. Most of these groups are
already major partners and therefore
well known to us. This will enable us to
deliver world-class compute capacity
across all of our sites and position us
as a key enabler of next generation AI
infrastructure as technology companies
with cloud computing AI services and
semiconductor designers are increasingly
in need of infrastructure operators like
us to scale their innovations in the
real world. In addition to the large
technology firms, we are also engaged in
discussions with sovereigns and large
enterprises seeking access to high
performance compute. By leveraging our
proven capabilities built over the past
30 years, we are positioned to lead in
this emerging asset class. With
foundational sites already underway and
ongoing discussions with strategic
partners, we are shaping the future of
infrastructure investment. This marks
the next chapter in our long-term
strategy to remain at the forefront of
the evolution of the backbone of the
global economy.
Private asset investing continues to
grow. We often get asked for our opinion
on private investing which seems to be a
much misunderstood topic. To make it
very simple, private investing is merely
the investment of capital into either
the debt or equity of businesses. But
instead of the equity of the businesses
being listed, they are private. And
instead of the debt being traded or
owned by regulated banks, it is owned by
investors like us. Private equity
investing, as investing in the equity of
private businesses is commonly known, is
merely the ownership of 100% of
businesses on a private basis. Owning
businesses privately is far more
flexible in terms of executing business
plans as investors can execute plans
just like any entrepreneur would do
without the disruptive eye of quarterly
reporting and constraints the public
markets often impose.
Each business can be run for long-term
growth and performance. Most
importantly, private asset investing has
proven to be extremely successful with
many decades of outperformance.
Private credit as private lending from
institutional non-bank groups like us is
generally known is growing in scale and
should continue to grow as private
credit providers can provide more
flexibility in terms to borrowers.
Furthermore, from a risk standpoint,
contrary to common belief, there is also
far less risk to the overall financial
system, as these loans are generally
owned without any or limited leverage.
30 years ago, institutional investors
only had the opportunity to own listed
bonds, mostly government bonds, and
public equities. Two things have changed
the investment industry forever. The
first is that the scale of sovereign and
institutional funds have compounded to
sums of capital never imagined before,
$20 trillion in counting. The second is
that an industry has now developed to
directly invest this capital into the
debt and equity of private businesses.
Investors no longer have to be held
hostage to the volatility of the public
markets because companies like ours
allow ownership of large parts of
businesses by investors. As a result,
institutional investors can now avoid
the distractions of the public markets
and earn better returns. For these
reasons, the scale of private assets has
grown every year for 30 years and will
not be stopping anytime soon.
Institutional investors globally are
better for it, and retirement accounts
will soon have the same access.
The world's electricity grids are
transforming. Globally, the demand for
electricity continues to accelerate at a
torid pace driven by a generational step
change in demand for power to drive the
AI revolution and more broadly the
electrification of the global energy
grid. This has created a tremendous
investment opportunity across our
franchise, particularly for our
renewables and infrastructure
businesses. The growth prospects for
lowcost mature renewables technologies
are better than at any point in history
as they now play the leading role in the
requirements for any and all increases
in generation capacity.
Further, as growing energy demand is
being met with new build capacity, it is
creating two challenges. Transmission
availability and grid stability. Grids
are simply not able to handle this rise
in supply and as a result countries
around the world are looking to the
buildout of transmission capacity,
development of energy storage solutions
and in certain cases behind the meter
distributed generation. We see
large-scale battery systems and
distributed generation as increasingly
important parts of the solution. The
grids scale batteries being developed
today are able to charge when the sun is
out or when the wind is blowing and then
discharge the power at other times,
enabling a more consistent power supply.
Distributed generation is able to reduce
demand during peak hours and provide
backup power when grids are strained.
The modular nature of both these
technologies also makes them relatively
easy to deploy almost anywhere.
Batteries have become more cost
effective with cost declining almost
100% in the past decade as supply chains
benefit from economies of scale. With
this, we expect that they will become a
significant component of stabilizing the
world's transmission grids and
supporting the accelerated buildout of
lowcost mature renewable technologies.
We also expect that distributed
generation will continue to see strong
demand and buildout to meet the
significant energy demand growth we are
seeing today. At the end of 2024, we
advanced our efforts to grow our
renewable operations and build out
battery systems by acquiring the French
listed company Neoen, a global scale
renewable platform with a best-in-class
management and marketleading positions
in France, Australia, and the Nordics.
The company has an 8,000 megawatt
portfolio of highly contracted operating
or under construction assets and a large
advanced stage 20,000 megawatt pipeline.
Neoen is also a leading operator and
developer of battery energy storage
systems, a technology we are
increasingly investing in. With
increasing demand, lower capital costs,
and higher potential revenues from
stabilizing services, we are focused on
deploying capital into battery energy
storage solutions in select markets.
Over the past year, we were awarded
20-year capacity contracts for
approximately 800 megawatts of battery
storage from the grid operator in
Ontario and began construction on 220
megawatt of capacity in Texas. With
these development projects, we are now
one of the largest battery developers
globally.
Adding battery storage and distributed
generation to our suite of capabilities
over the past couple of years is
especially exciting for us in the
context of our broader business as we
can now deliver an even more
comprehensive solution across Brookfield
for our customers. We are one of the
largest operators and developers of
traditional utility scale renewables and
distributed generation. We have a
leading nuclear power business in
Westinghouse and the largest private
operator of hydro facilities in the US.
All of which can help provide scale base
load energy to the grid.
The combination of our global scale,
significant access to capital, and these
combined operating and development
capabilities allows us to deliver
solutions to our clients few others can.
Our differentiated offering is deepening
our relationships with the largest and
fastest growing institutions globally
that are driving the surge in demand for
power and should help us generate
significant value for our shareholders
over the long term. Closing. We remain
committed to investing capital for you
in highquality assets that earn solid
cash returns on equity while emphasizing
downside protection for the capital
employed. The primary objective of the
company continues to be generating
increased cash flows on a per share
basis and as a result higher intrinsic
value per share over the longer term. We
look forward to seeing you September
10th at Brookfield Place in Manhattan at
our investor day. If you cannot attend
in person, our presentation will be
webcast live on our website and also
available for replay. Thank you for your
interest in Brookfield and please do not
hesitate to contact any of us should you
have suggestions, questions, comments or
ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flatt, Chief Executive Officer,
August 7th, 2025.
[Music]
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information.
All references to dollars are to US
dollars. This letter to shareholders
contains forward-looking information
within the meaning of Canadian
Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon, or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries. as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the Castle Lake
acquisition, including its expected
impact on our business, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, and our target carried
interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions
including acquisitions and dispositions.
The ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. the
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24. Risks
specific to our business segments,
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a
guarantee of future results. There can
be no assurance that comparable results
will be achieved in the future, that
future investments will be similar to
historic investments discussed herein,
that targeted returns, growth
objectives, diversification, or asset
allocations will be met, or that an
investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of nonifrs measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below,
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS.
We caution readers that these noniffs
financial measures or other financial
metrics are not standardized under IFRS
and may differ from the financial
measures or other financial metrics
disclosed by other businesses and as a
result may not be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers and
entities. We make reference to
distributable earnings which refers to
the sum of distributable earnings from
our asset management business.
Distributable operating earnings from
our insurance solutions business,
distributions received from our
ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonifress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these noniffress
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
