[Music]
Brooksfield Asset Management Q22025
letter to shareholders.
We delivered strong results in the
second quarter. This was as a result of
strong earnings, good fundraising, and
the resilience of our business. Our
diverse strategies and global
fundraising continue to support strong
capital inflows, raising $22 billion of
capital in the second quarter, bringing
our total to 97 billion over the past 12
months. As a result, our fee bearing
capital has grown to $563 billion, up
10% over the past year. This momentum
underscores our consistent track record
of growth and the depth of our client
relationships. In the second quarter, we
achieved a 16% increase in fee related
earnings to $676
million or 42 cents per share.
Distributable earnings increased 12% to
$613 million or 38 cents per share.
Fundamentals of our business have
remained strong and are now further
improving with capital markets
increasingly favorable. A year ago,
investors were waiting for a window of
stability to begin evaluating
transactions. Today, many are standing
ready to put capital to work, generating
a heightened level of activity across
our business. The current environment
continues to favor our strategy of
investing in the backbone of the global
economy. Critical real assets and
essential service businesses, the types
of investments we make, provide stable
and inflation linked cash flows across
the cycle. In today's environment,
investors value these highquality assets
and their associated investment profile
even more. This positions us well to
deploy capital into attractive
opportunities and realize value through
monetizations even amid changing
conditions. Year to date, we've deployed
over 85 billion of capital into
investments. Over the same period, we
sold over $55 billion of assets, all at
strong returns. This represents our
highest level of activity in years with
good underlying economic fundamentals,
liquid capital markets, and an
environment well suited to our
investment approach. Our leadership
position across the most important
themes in the alternatives market
positions us well to continue growing
our cash flows and compounding value for
our clients and shareholders.
Partnerships make the difference. We
have a long track record of identifying
highquality assets, optimizing
operations, and monetizing investments
to generate strong returns. This
approach has created meaningful value
for our investors and allowed us to
scale our business over decades. Our
model continues to attract partners.
With our global platform and operating
expertise, we are increasingly the
partner of choice for governments,
corporates, and institutions seeking
access to scale capital and aligned
counterparty with the ability to move
quickly, execute with certainty, and
deliver complex large-scale projects.
This demand has built a differentiated
opportunity set for Brookfield, where we
are forming long-term strategic
partnerships that are difficult to
replicate while delivering attractive
riskadjusted returns for our clients. We
recently entered into two such
partnerships. A renewable energy
framework agreement with Google that was
announced at the recent Pennsylvania
energy and innovation summit attended by
President Trump. Under the agreement, we
will deliver up to 3,000 megawatts of
hydroelectric capacity across the US,
beginning with a $3 billion contract for
power from two existing facilities in
Pennsylvania. a10 billion investment
program to support the Swedish
government buildout of the next
generation of digital infrastructure to
power the growth of AI and cloud
computing. It is a landmark public
private partnership and a powerful
example of how we are assisting
governments to deliver critical
infrastructure with speed and scale. In
this situation and in others, we are
differentiated by our scale of capital
and an integrated offering through our
infrastructure, renewable and real
estate businesses. We've pursued similar
frameworks in the past with other global
corporations and sovereign nations,
including a 20 billion euro investment
program announced alongside the French
government to support the buildout of AI
infrastructure and a 10.5 gawatt
renewable energy agreement with
Microsoft. These frameworks reflect the
breadth of our capabilities, the
credibility we have built over decades,
and the scale of our capital to support
these initiatives. They also serve as a
long-term competitive moat anchored in
our ability to deliver capital
flexibility and operating expertise and
should allow us to continue to offer
proprietary investment opportunities for
our clients that will generate strong
risk adjusted returns for decades to
come. Global mega trends accelerate our
leadership. For several years, we have
consistently highlighted three powerful
mega trends. digitalization,
decarbonization, and del globalization
that are reshaping the global economy
and will require more than 100 trillion
dollars of capital. Brookfield is
positioned at the intersection of these
secular drivers, which will continue to
provide meaningful tailwinds for our
business. Nowhere is the impact of the
3Ds more apparent than in our
infrastructure business. Since the
beginning of the year, we have committed
to numerous large-scale infrastructure
transactions, the four largest of which
total $30 billion of enterprise value,
each one is anchored by long-term
contracted or regulated cash flows and
significant barriers to entry. These
include the following. A 20% stake in
Duke Energy Florida, a vertically
integrated electric utility serving 2
million customers with 53,000 m of
transmission and distribution lines and
over 13 gawatt of installed generation
capacity for $8.2 billion, $6 billion of
equity value. Hotwire Communications, a
leading bulk fiber to the home provider
across the US for nearly $7 billion. $4
billion of equity value. Substantial
capital will be invested across the US
to upgrade fiber connectivity. Colonial
Enterprises, a worldclass midstream
portfolio, including the Colonial
Pipeline, the largest refined products
pipeline in the US for $9 billion, $3.4
billion in equity value. This is a
dominant and missionritical East Coast
US pipeline system. Wells Fargo Rail,
the second largest rail car leasing
platform in North America, in
partnership with GATX for over $5
billion, $1.2 billion of equity value.
Today, these mega trends are
accelerating dramatically and are now
more relevant than ever. As an example,
digitalization once centered on cloud
infrastructure has entered a new phase.
Artificial intelligence is transforming
how data is created, processed,
transported, and consumed, driving rapid
demand for computing power and network
capacity. Productivity is being reshaped
across nearly every sector, and demand
for data centers and compute
infrastructure is expanding
exponentially. Our investment programs
in Sweden and France reflect a broader
trend we're seeing globally as AI
emerges as a transformational
infrastructure theme that will require
significant capital investment. While
the potential of AI is widely
acknowledged, the scale of
infrastructure investment and the
operating capabilities required to
support its growth remain
underappreciated.
Trillions of dollars are required. We
have a leading position in foundational
AI infrastructure, having already built
meaningful scale, including over 2,000
megawatts of data center capacity and
one of the world's largest renewable
power platforms. Today, we're seeing a
growing need for next generation AI
factories purpose-built for highdensity
workloads and powered by dedicated
energy sources. Private capital will
play a critical role across the AI
infrastructure supply chain, especially
in compute infrastructure, which
requires high performance chips for
large-scale AI training and inference.
We see an opportunity to provide GPU
infrastructure as a service under
long-term contracts, easing the burden
on corporate balance sheets. We also see
major opportunities across critical
adjacencies such as liquid cooling
systems, cyber networks, robotics
manufacturing, and recycling
infrastructure. All vital to AI system
performance and sustainability. We are
uniquely positioned to deliver across
each of these solutions. We're
leveraging our real estate, power, and
infrastructure teams to integrate land,
energy, compute, and capital into a
single investment proposition across
both equity and credit. and our global
team brings deep technical and
operational expertise across the AI
infrastructure value chain. Our AI
frameworks in France and Sweden reflect
this integrated approach. To build on
this momentum, we are launching a
dedicated strategy focused on the
development of AI infrastructure
designed to meet the growing demand from
hyperscalers, enterprises and
governments for scalable integrated
solutions. We believe AI infrastructure
is one of the defining investment themes
of the decade. drawing together the 3Ds
and playing directly to our strengths.
We are well positioned to extend our
leadership position. We've already
deployed tens of billions into this area
and see a significant pipeline of
opportunities that fit our capabilities
and integrated approach. Highquality
assets and operational execution drive
strong monetizations
across all asset classes. The
transaction market is improving as a
result of the high quality and resilient
nature of our assets. Our ability to
return capital has been strong and we're
seeing activity levels increase across
all of our verticals. Year-to- date, we
have sold assets valued at over $55
billion at strong returns. Our success
can largely be attributed to our
ownership of assets which are of the
best quality and those which form the
backbone of the global economy.
renewable power, infrastructure, real
estate, and industrial businesses that
deliver essential services and generate
longduration contracted cash flows. The
improvement in transaction activity is
particularly distinct in real estate,
where investor interest in highquality
assets has turned. Year to date, we sold
$15 billion of real estate across all
asset classes and to a diverse set of
buyers. Notable transactions include the
$2.4 $4 billion sale of the Veo Group, a
senior living platform in Australia, the
$2.2 billion sale of Fundamental Income,
our net lease real estate platform in
the US, the $1.4 billion sale of Levenza
Living, a student housing platform in
Iberia, and the $500 million sale of
Marstrom, the largest single asset hotel
transaction in Spanish history. We also
executed the IPO of Leela Palac's Hotels
and Resorts, our rapidly growing Indian
luxury hotel business, a transaction
that values the business at 1.8 billion,
the highest multiple ever for a
hospitality IPO in India. We also saw
strong monetization activity and a
continued robust pipeline in our
infrastructure business where we sold
nearly 13 billion of assets. This
includes a portfolio of stabilized data
center assets developed by our data 4
platform for $3.6 billion, Patrick
terminals, a container terminal
operations business in Australia for $2
billion, and natural gas pipeline of
America for $1.4 billion.
We continue to be well positioned to
capitalize on ongoing monetization
demand with numerous infrastructure
assets in the market. In our other
businesses, we executed several
meaningful monetizations in renewable
power. We sold $7 billion of assets,
including a US hydropower portfolio and
an additional 25% stake in a US wind
project. In private equity, we are
actively advancing sales of businesses
that are ready for exit as part of our
ongoing effort to return capital to
clients. Over the past years, we've
returned $10 billion of capital.
Operations were strong. We had strong
broad-based demand from investors across
all of our fundraising channels in the
quarter. This included institutions,
insurance, private wealth, and strategic
partners. This momentum translated into
over 22 billion of new capital raised
with activities spanning flagship
complimentary insurance and public
affiliates. Nearly 70% of our capital
raising this quarter came from
complimentary strategies including
private wealth and our perpetual
open-end funds. We also saw a meaningful
increase in deployment. Our competitive
advantage is that we can underwrite with
conviction, move quickly, and offer
scale and certainty. Attributes that set
us apart and enable us to differentiate
our capital. In the second quarter, we
deployed nearly $30 billion of equity
capital. Together, these items are
driving momentum in FRE growth. This
also grows our crude carry base that
will generate significant cash flows in
future years. Second quarter highlights
of our activities across each of our
business groups include renewable power
and transition. We raised $1.5 billion,
including over $800 million for the
second vintage of our global transition
flagship fund, bringing the capital
raised to date for the strategy to over
$15 billion. This makes it the largest
renewable power or energy transition
fund ever. And we expect to raise more
capital into the final close, which is
targeted for the end of the third
quarter. In these strategies, we
deployed $1.3 billion, including over
$900 million for the acquisition of
National Grid's US Renewables business.
Infrastructure, we raised $1.7 billion,
led by over $1 billion for our Supercore
infrastructure strategy, our strongest
quarter in over 3 years. In these
strategies, we deployed nearly $10
billion. private equity. We raised $1.3
billion, including over $500 million for
our special investment strategy. In
these strategies, we deployed $1.9
billion across new investments. Real
estate, we raised $1.8 billion,
including $500 million for the fifth
vintage of our flagship real estate
strategy, which onlo will be our largest
real estate strategy ever raised. We
deployed $3.5 billion in these
strategies. credit. We raise $16
billion, including over $10 billion
across our partner managers and $4.4
billion from insurance accounts. We
expect to hold a first close for the
fourth vintage of our infrastructure
mezzanine debt strategy shortly, which
should bring total capital raise to date
to $4 billion. Deployment totaled 11.8 8
billion across a broad range of
strategies, including $1.7 billion out
of our flagship opportunistic credit
strategy, corporate. We acquired an
additional 9% stake in Primary Wave, our
partner manager focused on music
royalties and participated in the Castle
Lake acquisition of Concora, a specially
credit card origination platform and
manager. Scale, track record, and brand
will win in retirement markets. For
decades, the growth of the alternative
investment industry has been driven by
institutional capital anchored by
defined benefit pension plans and
sovereign wealth funds. Each managing
over 10 trillion in assets. These
long-term returned investors have
provided a stable foundation for the
expansion of our industry and for
Brookfield's own growth as a leading
manager of real assets. Allocations to
alternatives from these institutional
investors continue to grow and represent
the largest component of our business
and we remain deeply committed to
serving this important client base. At
the same time, a powerful new growth
engine is taking shape, the
democratization of alternatives. Defined
contribution retirement plans,
insurancebased savings products, and
private wealth channels are rapidly
emerging as the next generation of
growth for our industry. In the US
alone, outstanding 401k accounts and
retail annuities now exceed $20
trillion, on par with the size of the
global defined pensions and sovereign
wealth funds. Private wealth investors
represent another 20 trillion
opportunity as they increasingly turn to
private markets to help meet their
investment objectives. We expect the US
administration to pave the way for
defined contribution plans like 401ks to
invest in alternative assets. Even a
modest reallocation toward private
strategies will meaningfully expand the
addressable market and unlock hundreds
of billions to trillions of dollars of
new flows over time. The ability to
serve individual savers directly,
whether through workplace defined
contribution plans, annuities, or wealth
accounts, has the potential to double
the size of the private markets industry
in the years ahead. This global shift is
already underway, and our platform is
built for it. Our business is centered
around real assets and essential service
businesses that offer income, capital
stability, and inflation protection that
long-term retirement and wealth
portfolios require. These
characteristics are often difficult to
replicate with traditional public market
investments and are especially
compelling to savers seeking
diversification, downside protection,
and dependable compounding over time. In
this evolving landscape, distribution
will matter, but it is the quality and
durability of the products that will
ultimately determine success. Individual
investors are looking for reliable
investment outcomes. They want
portfolios that can withstand volatility
while compounding over time. We believe
no other business has a track record in
the diversified products which will
drive the future of retirement accounts
like we do. We've made significant
investments across our platform to meet
the needs of retail investors through
the buildout of our private wealth and
retirement platform, Brookfield Wealth
Solutions, which is on track to raise
over $30 billion of capital this year
from private wealth and insurance
annuity channels. We've developed a
diverse suite of products structured
specifically for private wealth and
individual investors, each designed to
deliver strong, stable performance
across market cycles. That offering is
continuing to grow with the upcoming
launch of two new strategies dedicated
to private wealth investors. One focused
on private equity and the other on
assetbased finance, creating new avenues
for individuals to access our
industryleading platforms. We're also
expanding our reach with dedicated team
members focused exclusively on capturing
the growing opportunity and defined
contribution and private wealth
channels. At the same time, we managed
an approximate $100 billion and growing
portfolio of annuities on behalf of
Brookfield Wealth Solutions designed to
generate stable, attractive returns for
retirement accounts. With our global
scale, operational expertise, and
long-term mindset, Brookfield has a
distinct advantage in delivering real
asset solutions to a new generation of
investors. Our ability to scale these
strategies without compromising on risk
or return positions us at the forefront
as the market for alternative
investments opens to a broader investor
base. This shift from institutional to
individual capital marks more than
incremental change. It is a structural
reorientation in how capital is raised.
portfolios are built and retirement is
financed. We are well positioned to lead
in this transformation and capture the
next frontier of industry growth. Our
retirement market presence continues to
grow. As part of this evolution, our
largest shareholder, Brookville,
recently entered into an agreement to
acquire Just Group, a leading provider
of retirement services in the UK
individual retirement market. Just
Groups focuses on longduration income
oriented retirement products serving
both individuals and institutions across
the UK. The transaction is expected to
close in the first half of next year.
While we are not contributing capital to
the transaction or taking on insurance
liabilities, we will become the
investment manager with respect to a
significant portion of Just Group's $ 36
billion portfolio. upon closing on terms
consistent with our existing investment
management agreements with Brookfield's
insurance group BWS. This will
immediately generate meaningful
incremental annualized stable fee
related revenue with significant future
upside as just group's origination
capabilities contribute to BWS's growth
strategy. This transaction demonstrate
the significant opportunity for us to
service BWS's growing global platform, a
feature that remains an underappreciated
upside for our business. Following
completion of Just Group, BWS is on
track to originate upwards of $25
billion of new individual annuity and
pension risk transfer volume annually
across North America and the UK markets.
The latter which generates 40 to50
billion British pounds of annual pension
risk transfer volume and a defined
contribution market that is projected to
grow to 1.3 trillion British pounds in
assets across 14.9 million active savers
by 2044.
This acquisition expands the scale and
reach of our retirement focused
investment capabilities and reinforces
the ongoing upside for us as BWS
continues to grow. While such
transactions are discreet in nature,
they continue to be a meaningful and
highly accreative source of growth for
us as part of Brooksville's ecosystem.
Communications with you. In response to
investor feedback and with the goal of
simplifying and streamlining our
communications, we will transition to
publishing a comprehensive Brookfield
investor letter on a quarterly basis,
beginning with our third quarter
reporting. This new format will take the
place of our current shareholder letter
and will cover the most important themes
and strategic developments across all of
Brookfield, including topics most
relevant to Brookfield asset management.
The letter will be published at the end
of Brookfield's reporting cycle to cover
all themes and updates across all parts
of Brookfield and its affiliates. We
believe this approach will make it
easier for investors to stay current on
the full breadth of activity across
Brookfield through a single consolidated
update. We will continue to provide
timely updates throughout the year via
our quarterly press releases and
earnings calls with management. In
addition, we will also publish a
standalone Brookfield asset management
investor letter on an annual basis
alongside our fourth quarter results.
Closing. We remain committed to being a
world-class asset manager by investing
our capital in highquality assets that
earn solid attractive returns while
emphasizing downside protection. The
primary objective of the company
continues to be to generate increasing
cash flows on a per share basis and to
distribute that cash to you by dividend
or share repurchases. We look forward to
seeing you on September 10th in
Manhattan and our investor day. If you
cannot attend in person, our
presentation will be webcast live on our
website and also available for replay.
Thank you for your interest in
Brookfield and please do not hesitate to
contact any of us should you have
suggestions, questions, comments or
ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flatt, Chief Executive Officer
Connor Tesy, President August 6th, 2025.
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information.
All references to dollars are to US
dollars. This letter to shareholders
contains forward-looking information
within the meaning of Canadian
Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries.
as well as the outlook for North
American and international economies for
the current fiscal year and subsequent
periods and which in turn are based on
our experience and perception of
historical trends, current conditions
and expected future developments as well
as other factors management believes are
appropriate in the circumstances. The
estimates, beliefs, and assumptions of
Brookfield Corporation are inherently
subject to significant business,
economic, competitive, and other
uncertainties and contingencies
regarding future events and as such are
subject to change. Forward-looking
statements are typically identified by
words such as expect, anticipate,
believe, foresee, could, estimate, goal,
intend, plan, seek, strive, will, may,
and should, and similar expressions. In
particular, the forward-looking
statements contained in this letter
include statements referring to the
impact of current market or economic
conditions on our business, the future
state of the economy or the securities
market, the Castle Lake acquisition,
including its expected impact on our
business, the anticipated allocation and
deployment of our capital, our liquidity
and ability to access and raise capital,
our fundraising targets, our target
growth objectives, and our target
carried interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions,
including acquisitions and dispositions.
The ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. The
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24 risks
specific to our business segments
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive, and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements, and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements, which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a
guarantee of future results. There can
be no assurance that comparable results
will be achieved in the future, that
future investments will be similar to
historic investments discussed herein,
that targeted returns, growth
objectives, diversification or asset
allocations will be met, or that an
investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of nonIFRs measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below,
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS.
We caution readers that these nonFRS
financial measures or other financial
metrics are not standardized under IFRS
and may differ from the financial
measures or other financial metrics
disclosed by other businesses and as a
result may not be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers and
entities. We make reference to
distributable earnings, which refers to
the sum of distributable earnings from
our asset management business,
distributable operating earnings from
our insurance solutions business,
distributions received from our
ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
noniffress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these non-IFRs
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
