[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystem's role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. Today, we're
taking a closer look at Brookfield's
private equity business, what our team
has learned from over 25 years of
investing and operating experience, and
how AI is driving even more value
creation. Looking ahead with us today,
we have An Ranjen, Katie Zorbus, and
Adrien Lutz, three PE veterans who will
give us an inside perspective on the ins
and outs of this sector.
Katie, Adrien, Anuj, welcome to the
podcast. To get us started, can you
introduce yourselves and share a little
bit more about what you do at
Brookfield? I'm Katie Zorbis and I
joined Brookfield in 2008. I spent the
majority of my career at Brookfield in
the private equity business and I've
worked in a range of investment roles
before moving to a role now leading our
global strategy on fund formation,
capital raising, co-investment
syndication, and investor relations.
>> Great. Adrien, what about you?
>> My name is Adrien Le. I'm the global
head of business operations and value
creation here at Brookfield's private
equity. I joined Brookfield in 2022 and
prior to that I spent many years in
leadership roles in digitally enabled
businesses and most recently I was the
CEO of a UK retail energy business which
was a buy and build. We did a number of
acquisitions growing that business from
half a million customers to 5 million
customers. My name is Anuj Ranjen. I'm
the CEO of Brookfield's private equity
business. I've been at Brookfield for
about 20 years. I started in Toronto and
I've lived in Mumbai and also Dubai
where I helped build Brookfield's
business in India, the Middle East and
today I'm based in London. I think some
people would be surprised to hear that
our private equity business has been
around for 25 years and was actually the
first fund launched by Brookfield when
we started as an asset manager back in
2001.
Anj, how would you define Brookfield's
private equity strategy today and has it
evolved over time? Our strategy has been
pretty consistent in that we have done
essentially the same thing over our
entire history which to sum it up in one
line. We are value investors driving
operational transformation. We buy great
businesses in industrials and essential
services that support the backbone of
the global economy and we acquire them
for value and then transform them
through operational value creation. We
identify value, we buy for value, and we
create value.
>> And having seen the evolution of the
business myself over the last number of
years, we do have that consistent
operating approach to value creation, as
you mentioned. And today, we've really
sharpened our focus on core areas, which
are the industrials and essential
services. We now have a big operation in
the Middle East with over $15 billion of
assets under management there. and we're
also doing a lot of work within the
financial infrastructure space. Adrien,
you joined Brookfield after a long
career in industry. What attracted you
to Brookfield's private equity business?
>> I think the most important thing that we
do at Brookfield which makes us very
different is our hands-on operating
approach. And it's the operator mindset
and the strategic heritage that we have
that really attracted me. Many private
equity firms talk about their operating
capability, but really it's just a team
of consultants or specialists that come
in after the deal is done and try and
problem solve. Brookfield's very
different. It's a team sport. The team I
lead work very closely with our
investment team across the deal life
cycle. So from origination, diligence
into to to ownership. Um we're
intimately involved. We play a big role
in developing the value creation plan in
conjunction with our investment
colleagues and you know it's something
that I think we pride ourselves on is
working very closely together as
Brookfield but also with our leadership
teams in terms of delivering value
>> and a lot of the senior leaders on the
team talk a lot about this roll up your
sleeves private equity approach to
investing. What does that really mean in
practice?
>> Look roll up your sleeves is really
getting into the detail of the business.
is understanding the DNA of the company
that we've bought. What makes it tick?
What makes it special? Why are customers
attracted to that business? What are the
opportunities? What's the cultural
transformation that is required? And
it's that deep knowledge and
understanding that helps us really work
together so closely with the leadership
teams to drive value.
>> And I think it's something that our
partners see as very defining about
Brookfield. And our approach is truly
differentiated. We have the operations
and investment teams that are truly
working as one integrated team from
early stage due diligence to exit. And I
would say that operator mentality runs
really deep in our culture. We often
send young investment professionals into
our businesses to learn what it takes to
drive change. And I saw that myself
coming from the investment team earlier
on in my career where I spent time in a
very industrious pre-cast concrete
manufacturer which probably wasn't the
most natural environment for me but was
a great learning experience having
worked alongside our senior operating
professional on that investment and I
think overall having that real life
experience within operations working
alongside Adrian and his team makes us
all truly better investor. investors.
Adrien, maybe just building on that idea
around the operational focus, can you
share a little bit more about our
approach and how we work with the
management teams of our portfolio
companies?
>> I think management teams, particularly
the CEO, are foundational in terms of
the success of an investment in the
business. And one of the most important
things for us is how we think about
supporting both the CEO and the
leadership team and the broader company
in terms of execution and driving
towards the value creation plan that
we've come together to develop. It's
rather like being a co-driver in a rally
car. You're not in the driver's seat.
You're in the passenger seat. You're not
in the back seat shouting orders. You
really are trying to help the CEO
anticipate the corners, the bends, the
bumps, and really giving them the best
information that you possibly can to
deliver and drive and negotiate what is
often not a straight line in terms of
ownership and value creation. And it's
really trying to make sure that you've
got that balance right of offering
coaching and advice and support, but
remembering that they're driving the car
and really responsible for the
investment.
>> Can you give us an example? maybe use
ChemX, one of our more recent
acquisitions within private equity, just
to outline in real life how that works.
>> Yeah. So, ChemX was a carve out of a
carveout. ChemX provides thermal wiring
for pipelines and helps to regulate the
temperature. It's a very well-known
brand and well-known business and it's
been dimensioned into a lot of existing
pipelines, but it really was within
another business and didn't have the the
sharp focus and clear value creation
plan that we think it can have in terms
of creating value. We identified in
diligence some of the opportunities,
some in terms of the operating
efficiency of the business, some in
terms of how it went to market and
worked with its customers. We also
identified that really there wasn't a
strong CEO candidate and this was
something that was going to be really
important. We worked to identify and
hire a CEO before we actually closed on
the business. We identified the key
roles that we needed to fulfill. We
worked with that incoming CEO and what
the value creation plan was and
supported them in launching a 100 day
plan to really get momentum around what
is probably going to be a 3 to 5 year
value creation. establishing the
processes, making sure we had the
organizational structure, supporting the
CEO and key hires, getting momentum
around that transformation, really
making sure that we understood what were
the quick wins and what were the
longerterm opportunities and then
putting the process and change and
building that change culture in the
organization to get real momentum in the
business.
>> Katie, you've moved from a role in our
investments team to one where you now
speak to our partners all over the world
every day. With that background, what's
on our clients minds? What themes and
trends stand out to you coming out of
those conversations?
>> There's a couple things I have learned
over the last couple of years having
spoken with our LPs on a pretty regular
basis. The first thing is just that our
partners want to make sure that they're
partnering with managers that are really
good at what they do and stick to their
core strengths. So for us obviously
that's industrials, that's essential
services and so it often means focusing
on managers where they have a real
specialization in terms of sectors or
the operating expertise. The second
thing is our partners want to see
co-investments. They want to see a
tremendous amount of deal flow. And
luckily for us, we've built up a pretty
robust co-investment program over the
last number of years. And it doesn't
just mean access to deal flow. It also
means access to information with the
Brookfield ecosystem and just the
broader business that we have. We're
able to provide a lot of those unique
insights to our partners. And then the
third thing on the broader macro trends,
there's obviously a lot more capital
flowing into alternatives today, but at
the same time, we're also seeing a real
industry consolidation occur where LPs
are focusing typically on a smaller
roster of managers in many cases. And
that has really benefited us over the
last number of years. Sticking with the
trends, but speaking more to the
investment side of things, what are the
tailwinds that are driving the need for
private equity investment right now in
Nous?
>> I believe we are genuinely accelerating
into the fourth industrial revolution
where AI, automation, and robotics are
poised to deliver unprecedented gains in
global productivity and therefore
investor returns. There is a need to
close this productivity gap in certain
markets. For example, Europe. There's an
ability to bridge some of the lower cost
labor markets and some of the higher
cost labor markets where the consumption
of those goods and services are. The
financial infrastructure which forms the
backbone of the global financial system
is being completely rewired as it moves
from analog to digital to data to AI and
consumer businesses have already had to
adapt. But there are a lot of businesses
that haven't been through this
transformation yet. Industrial
companies, for example, where they're
today changing their business processes
to drive and improve productivity if
they have the capital to invest in that
kind of acceleration and if they have
the knowledge to truly unleash some of
those gains that they can have from AI.
>> Adrian, what about within our own
portfolio? How are we using AI to
actually enhance those value creation
initiatives? Before I answer that
question, I think it's important to just
think about the types of businesses that
we're buying. We really invest in
essential products and services
businesses, industrials and services.
Many of those businesses have a great
market position and have a product that
their customers really treasure and
value, but haven't experienced the
digitalization and haven't really been
through the same technology
transformation that many consumer
businesses have. When you start to think
about, look, we're buying great
businesses, great market position, we're
buying them for value, and then you
overlay the opportunity to somewhat jump
ahead to using things like AI, really
using it to optimize business process,
it's terribly exciting. And look, I
think Bruce, our CEO, said it best. If
you believe in the AI revolution, you've
got to believe that there are going to
be companies that are truly transformed
by AI. And it's definitely I think in
the sweet spot of the businesses that we
own. If you think about some of the
examples, Clarios, which is the world's
largest car battery manufacturer, has
really begun to leverage AI
digitalization and what they do,
leveraging vast amounts of data to
really understand their production
process, reduce wastage, anticipate
demand, and better manage their
inventory. They're now in the process of
installing smart sensors which will
measure everything across their
manufacturing footprint, whether that be
energy consumption, temperature control,
machine utilization. It's going to
really help them understand how they
maximize the capacity utilization of
their footprint.
>> At Brookfield, we sit at a pretty
interesting vantage point. having
invested across the value chain, whether
it be the power requirements, the data
center buildouts, or even some of the
early stage technology, but to your
point, we have hundreds of portfolio
companies today within the ecosystem
that will really be using all of those
AI technology advancements to improve
value. So, let's maybe stay on that
topic of talking about industrials. It's
been a pretty overlooked sector over the
last number of years, especially when
compared to some of the growth of
technology and changing consumer habits.
What makes it so attractive as a sector
of investment for us?
>> You're right. Industrials is often an
overlooked sector and thankfully for us,
it runs very deep in our private equity
DNA. These businesses provide essential
products and services, as Adrianne said,
that often form the backbone of the
global economy. They're often complex in
nature requiring uh a lot of hard work
in a carveout or a take private that
requires deep operating capabilities to
unlock value. Because of this, we often
find opportunities to acquire incredible
businesses for value. Industrials is a
very broad universe. But if you think
about companies that provide these
essential products and services to end
markets that we understand very well
either linked to businesses we have
owned in the past where we have a lot of
expertise or the broader Brookfield
being one of the world's largest players
in real estate and infrastructure. It
allows us to have an angle and an
advantage that often others can't
underwrite. We've always had a focus on
industrials, but today with the
confluence of artificial intelligence,
robotics, and automation, we've seen
even more incredible opportunity to help
re-imagine some of these businesses and
reawaken nent industries. We have always
bought industrial companies and reshaped
them and remade them. And now with the
power of AI, I think we can transform
these companies in a much more
significant way. Building on Anuja's
comment, we see fantastic industrial
companies in places like North America
where they're looking to regain control
and reshore and reimagine their
capability. And to India's point, one of
the big challenges in operating in a
market like the US is to be competitive.
And it may be a skill set shortage. It
may be labor challenges, but AI is
certainly a productivity driver.
Digitalization is certainly a
productivity driver. Robotics and
automated manufacturing is certainly an
opportunity. And if you bring these
things together, you take the types of
businesses that we've talked about, you
think about carving them out and giving
them direction, creating a value
creation plan, putting in a strong
leadership team, leveraging things like
digital automation, AI can make them
truly competitive again and allow them
to really grow and expand their
proposition.
>> Switching gears to talk about the
opportunity set that we're seeing today.
I think everyone expected 2025 to be the
year that investment activity really
thawed across the industry. There was a
lot of optimism heading into 2025. It
hasn't quite evolved in that way given
some of the macro level uncertainty, but
what's your outlook for the rest of
2025?
We've actually had an incredibly active
start to the year on the acquisition
front with ChemX and Antilia, our
partnership with Barclays, which we
recently announced. Around the world,
we've got a very active pipeline, and
it's helped by deal activity being
backed to a rational and more reasonable
place. The key component here is it's
the types of businesses we buy and the
sectors that they're in. So essential
products and services, those that are
critical to the backbone of the global
economy, these industrial powerhouses,
they're a lot more resilient to
short-term market movements and periods
of dislocation. What that means is
sometimes in an upswing market, they may
not swing as far up as some other
industries and sectors, but in an
environment like today where we've had
some recent volatility, they're still
great businesses that generate a lot of
cash flow. And those kinds of businesses
are always, I think, in vogue. They are
always transactable. They're always
financable and they're seen as
businesses that can cut through most
cyclical movements in any market
environment. We've seen the strategic
bid come back over the last 12 months.
So on one hand, we're seeing
conglomerates or strategics back to
acquiring businesses of the kind that we
own, which is very, very helpful and
useful for the market. But we're also
seeing a lot of opportunities to acquire
assets from some of these same
corporates as they look to rationalize
their business and focus on their core
activities. Given the recent market
turbulence, we are seeing IPO and other
monetization plans slowing and sponsors
and businesses are therefore also
looking for flexible capital solutions
to support their growth plans or to help
with partial monetizations. And we see
that accelerating over the coming
months. If people have to hold their
businesses longer and they can't realize
that liquidity in order to progress in
their business plans, they're going to
need capital partners to support it,
which is pretty exciting. We're really
excited about the opportunities ahead
for us this year. And I just say it's
particularly in industrials and
financial infrastructure where we see a
large scale transformation happening.
Let's continue on that trend and talk
about financial infrastructure and what
that means to us. We recently announced
a partnership with Barclays to carve out
and transform their payments business as
part of our financial infrastructure
strategy. Anj can you elaborate on what
financial infrastructure means to us and
the types of opportunities we're seeing?
>> Absolutely. People often ask why we
refer to this as financial
infrastructure. It's really the
characteristics of the business. If you
think about physical infrastructure as
being physical assets that move people,
commodities or data, financial
infrastructure are digital assets that
move money. They form the backbone of
global financial systems. This comes
back to the opportunity. In many cases,
this backbone financial infrastructure
is crumbling. It needs capital. It needs
significant investment to keep up with
the pace of change in technology. Even
prior to recent innovation in terms of
blockchain or distributed ledger
technology or AI, these systems were
often out ofdate and needed significant
technology investment in capex. But with
everything that we have today at our
fingertips, there is a big amount of
transformation ahead. And all of these
incumbents will have to invest
significant amounts of capital to
upgrade their systems to keep pace with
this change and provide better value
added products and services to their
customers. That is going to take
trillions and trillions of dollars. And
the best place to make that investment
is not with the current incumbents or
the current owners who are often the
major banks or major governments or
major financial conglomerates of the
world. It isn't their core business and
it's not where their capital is best
deployed. We see a real opportunity for
investors like us who understand how to
invest in technology, who understand how
to invest in infrastructure and treat it
as such to partner with the banks, to
partner with the incumbents and help
them transform these businesses and
their systems. That to me is very very
exciting and I think the opportunity is
enormous.
>> This was a great conversation. I learned
a lot listening to you and really
appreciate you all taking the time.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much. enjoyed
the conversation.
>> Thank you for having us.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
[Music]
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation
