Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives.
Today we have another edition of Deal
Debrief where we get the download on
recent transactions from the people who
put them together. On this episode, Jay
Vava and Ed Bford from our renewable
power and transition group take us
deeper into one of the biggest deals
ever done in their sector, the
acquisition of Neoen, one of the leading
developers and operators of renewable
power globally.
Jay Ed, welcome to the podcast. Thank
you. Great to be here as well. Thank you
for having us. Jay, let's start with
you. Tell us a little bit about your
background and what you do at
Brookfield. I'm a managing partner at
Brookfield and the global chief
investment officer for Brookfield's
renewable power and transition group.
I've been with Brookfield for more than
10 years. I've had investment and asset
management roles and I'm currently based
in Toronto.
Great. Ed, what about you? Hello, my
name is Ed Baford. Uh I'm a VP within
the investments team of our renewable
power and transition group. I'm based
here in London and was part of the team
that led and coordinated our acquisition
of Neoen recently. It has been a
milestone transaction for us. Delighted
to be discussing it further today. Yeah,
let's dive right into that. So, the
acquisition of Neoen is one of the
largest renewable deals that Brookfield
has ever done. So, Ed, it would be great
for you to tell us a little bit about
the company and really just about the
transaction overall.
Sure. So, as you alluded to, Neoen is a
global developer and operator of
renewables, in particular, solar,
onshore wind, and battery energy
storage. The company is headquartered in
France and was publicly listed since its
IPO in 2018. At Brookfield, we had
tracked the company for many years and
we were always impressed not only by the
pace but even more importantly the
discipline and and the profitability of
its growth. Now geographically, Neoen is
already a market leader in France,
Australia and the Nordics and is scaling
quickly in several very interesting
adjacent power markets around the world.
Consistently NEON had been starting
construction on 1 to 1.5 gawatt of new
projects every year entirely developed
inhouse and by now has over 6 GW of
operating assets. Now that's gawatt in
US dollar terms. The new end transaction
was $7 billion of equity value and as
indicated in your question the largest
acquisition to date for our renewable
power and transition business here at
Brookfield. To put these gigawatts into
context, Neoen's development pipeline,
that's the sum of all of its live
development projects around the world,
is around 40 gawatt in total. Peak power
demand in France, Neoen's home market,
is around 50 gaw. So the scale of
Neoen's global activities and the
opportunity set it is pursuing is very
large indeed. Wow, that is impressive.
Jay, can you provide some broader
context for this transaction? Yeah,
absolutely. Look, scale has always been
one of the competitive advantages that
we have. There's much less competition
for large deals and that allows us to
get higher returns. When we're
negotiating with shareholders, the fact
that we can stand behind billions of
dollars of equity gives them certainty
that the deal is going to close and that
gives us an advantage. And so often for
the larger deals, we don't participate
in processes. They are often bilateral
because we are one of the only shows in
town that could do a deal of that size
and no is a good example of this. It's 6
billion plus of equity for the
transaction and there's very few parties
that can deliver that much equity. We've
owned a number of large scale platforms
and what we found is scale allows us to
drive growth in the businesses areas
such as financing, procurement, PPAs,
power purchase agreements from our
partners. We have advantages because we
are able to offer a large amount of
projects and that scale allows all of
these areas and companies to do business
with us and provide us with preferable
terms. An example of this is we did a
10.5 gawatt deal with Microsoft to
provide them with renewable power.
That's 15 billion plus of capex. And
what's great is now we can take some of
these competitive advantages and apply
them to newen on scale. And that should
allow us to really supercharge the
returns. scale is one of these really
underlying fundamental aspects, but what
are the other aspects that made it just
a good fit overall for both NEON and
Brookfield? Look, renewables, an area
that we are extremely active in. We've
owned and operated businesses for many
decades, initially in the hydro
business, then the wind business, the
solar business. Our strategy today is
one of creating value at all of our
businesses using the lessons we've
learned over the years to enhance
returns and execute on business plans.
Nan has built up a great business in its
own right. They operate in a number of
markets that we are underway today like
France, the Nordics and Australia. But
we do believe a lot of the lessons we've
learned in the businesses we've already
invested in could also be brought to
know and it should really help with
enhancing the business further. Also, I
think the timing is critical. Today
we're in this environment where we're
seeing very strong demand globally for
renewable power. Renewable power is the
cheapest form of power generation and so
corporates are very keen to contract
renewables. Also renewables can be
deployed quickly and today power is the
name of the game. So our view is if you
look at the fundamentals it's an
excellent time for renewables and so
investing in a large scale platform that
has been doing it for many years has
operating assets has a huge development
pipeline we can really enhance that
pipeline help them grow and do it at
excellent returns yeah Adam what about
on the side certainly so to complement
Jay we saw excellent alignment very
early on with Neoen's management team
current CEO Zavier Barbaro founded Neoen
in 2008 and has led its growth since day
one alongside a great team. It was clear
that the team is one that already thinks
like investors focused on capital
allocation and value not just gigawatts
and volumes making them a really
excellent fit for us and that exact same
management team will continue is
committed to NEON for the long term and
are fully aligned with the business plan
under Brookfield sponsorship. So Ed,
take us behind the scenes a little bit.
How did this deal actually get done?
Sure. So to make a general comment
first, building renewables is a huge
opportunity but does require a lot of
capital. Being a developer in public
markets is challenging. It's a constant
treadmill of raising fresh public equity
to fund that new growth. And if you ever
hit a point in the cycle where capital
markets are less constructive, it really
can create a capital constraint. And
here in the case of Neoen, the anchor
shareholder was a French entrepreneur
called Jack Verat who owned a 43% stake.
Our team had built a strong relationship
with Jack through the years. We
presented many ideas to him and quickly
understood that he would want to fund
Neoen's growth for as long as possible,
but could eventually become capital
constrained as we described and risk
losing control. So when this did begin
to materialize in early 2024,
we were very well placed to effectuate a
transaction quickly and very
collaboratively. So we structured the
transaction into two stages. First, we
acquired a 53% stake up front. This
included Jack and a few other strategic
shareholders.
That stage one completed on December
27th, which was great timing for the
team, but this really derisked the
investment for us. It meant that prior
to launching a public tender offer, we
already controlled the company and knew
we had appropriate governance to execute
our business plan.
Then stage two was that public tender
offer to acquire the remaining shares
from public investors which successfully
completed in March earlier this year and
it enabled Brookfield alongside our
partners to acquire a 100% stake and
fully privatize NEON. It was around 12
months from having entering exclusivity
with the board to conduct our diligence
to closing stage two of that public
transaction. Of course, we're thrilled
with the outcome. a really significant
outcome as you said with a lot of
different stakeholders of different
types and sizes. Absolutely. That's
right. It's so obvious. We understand
intrinsically the thesis around
renewables and the long-term play of
that. But I think it would be really
helpful for those listening to just give
some context overall to the opportunity
for the UN and their business against
this backdrop of this incredible demand
for power. As Jay alluded to, now that
the deal is done, the fund starts and so
as Brookfield, where are we looking with
this business to go forward? What's on
the horizon? Yes, absolutely. Look, in
our view, NEON already has the
development pipeline, the capabilities,
the team to accelerate growth to 2 GW or
more per year around the world. From a
Brookfield perspective, we will look to
enhance really three areas. First is
asset rotation. NEON has historically
pursued a build and hold strategy on its
assets. In a private market setting, we
will recycle capital. What we mean is
selling derisked operating long-term
contracted renewable assets to lower
cost of capital typically more yield
oriented financial or strategic buyers
and redeploying that capital into new
accretive growth. This of course becomes
a very virtuous cycle through the
business plan. Second one is financing.
Now we did largely mirror the existing
capital structure of Neoend day1. This
was not a leveraged buyout per se but
over time with our global lender
relationships. We are optimizing the
capital structure with things like capex
revolvers to optimize liquidity and some
long-term rated corporate debt as the
business grows in scale. Bringing these
two initiatives together, asset rotation
and financing, we have already
transformed NEON into a fully
self-funded business model. That's one
that is not requiring ongoing fresh
equity injections. And the third one to
mention, Neoen is already capitalizing
on the benefits of the broader
Brookfield renewable ecosystem. So think
equipment procurement, our lender
relationships, our global corporate
offtake relationships, including for
example our global framework agreement
with Microsoft. These benefits of our
scale and our experience are quite
unique and new and plugged in from day
one. Wow, there's a lot to do. Jay, it's
interesting in this context. How does
that business plan sit within the
overall context of the sector? this
illusion to power demand and the
tailwinds that you see overall for the
renewable business. Yeah, look, all our
acquisitions involve executing on a
business plan and we at Brookfield have
a playbook that we use to execute on it.
Newan is a scale business. It's in new
markets, but the fundamentals are
exactly the same as all our businesses.
So we are very well suited to execute on
the business plan, create value as Ed
mentioned through various parts of the
business including contracting,
including procurement, including
financing and I think we're doing it all
under a very strong backdrop. To put it
all in context, today the demand for
electricity is growing very rapidly. AI
requires data centers and data centers
need generally green power and they need
to be connected quickly. So we are
expecting electricity demand to increase
very significantly over the next decade
and renewables should benefit from it
very significantly. Also renewables is
the cheapest form of electricity in many
parts of the world. When you think about
it over time the levelized cost of solar
for example has dropped by more than 90%
since 2009. So it's very rare to see
declines like that. And if that trend
continues we are going to continue to
see exponential growth in the space. the
amount of renewables in the overall
supply is going to keep doubling and
that will change the way we see power
and change our approach globally to
power. So I think no is very well suited
for this environment is going to benefit
from these tailwinds and we're going to
bring a lot to the table to make sure
that no is taking advantage of it.
They're developing projects at the
highest possible returns. They're
getting the best contracts. They're
moving to the right markets and I think
that's what's going to create value over
time. So with cost coming down and this
incredible demand for power really the
only limitation is how fast we can build
it. Is that what you're saying? Yeah.
Yeah. I think the demand right now far
exceeds the supply of projects. So it's
really about bringing highquality
projects to completion as quickly as
possible. If we are able to do that the
demand will be there. Corporate
offtakers will want to procure the
power. Governments will want to procure
the power. So it's just very important
that we move rapidly to develop these
projects and that's what our customers
want. They want the power quickly given
today the demand is very strong for
power. Even if we look at the horizon of
renewables over the time that Brookfield
has been in this business, hydro was one
of the very early places where we
entered but very quickly progressed to
wind and solar and now batteries over
the last phase have come into the
picture. I get the sense that the thing
maybe we don't hear quite as often about
is batteries, right? this point about
well you can always make renewable power
when the wind is blowing and the sun is
shining but what about when it isn't so
Ed can you tell us a little bit more
about specifically Neoen's experience
and their stake in the battery market
certainly and this is a very important
growth avenue for Neoen who really were
a first mover in batteries so to give a
bit more history here back in 2017 Neoen
launched its first so-called big battery
around 130 megatt hours in South
Australia. To put that size into
context, that is equivalent to over
2,000 batteries from the average
electric vehicle on the roads today. At
the time, this was pioneering. The first
battery deployed anywhere in the world
at this scale on a power grid. And
today, Neoen continues to be a leader
and is deploying its battery
capabilities not just in Australia, but
in Germany, Italy, Canada, and more. By
now, NEON really is a global authority
and partner of choice in that
technology. Now, managing an asset that
charges, stores, and discharges
electricity is very different to one
that just generates. In many of these
markets that we mentioned, we are seeing
very interesting revenue contracting
opportunities for batteries emerge as
those markets mature. Be it government
counterparties or often private tolling
agreements with utilities, for example.
Now, this enables NEON to monetize
multiple revenue streams across its
portfolio. We call it the revenue stack
to enhance profitability and manage risk
in a way that is appropriate for our
capital. Jay, obviously batteries can be
one of the next big waves of efficiency
and ultimately penetration of renewable
power across many different sectors,
geographies. Do we see right now as much
demand around the battery sector in one
region as another? Are there certain
regions where it's leading or do we just
see it as an overall big push with the
rest of the technologies that Neoen and
others are playing in? Look, we think
batteries is a global trend. It's one
we're very excited about. We think
batteries is going to play a key role in
the deployment of renewables. Excess
generation from renewables needs to be
stored otherwise it could be cailed and
essentially batteries provides that
role. It plays very much a role in
renewables deployment. But what's most
exciting about it is how quickly the
capital costs for batteries are
declining. Over the last 15 years, we've
seen the cost go from about 1,200 USD
per kilowatt hour down to around 200 USD
per kilowatt hour. And so very
significant declines that allows for the
rapid deployment and scale up. But
what's most interesting is that trend is
continuing. We're continuing to see that
decline. So if that continues, just as
we saw in solar, we're going to see
exponential growth in batteries. The
other thing is when you pair wind with
solar with batteries, you start getting
quite a high capacity factor. And that
is going to allow technology companies
to start using renewables for their data
centers because you can get up to 80 90%
capacity factors with long duration,
short duration storage alongside wind
and solar. Look, we're very excited.
No's been a big player in this space. At
Brookfield, we also have been investing
in storage in other parts of our
business in the US, in in Canada, in
Europe. We think it's a very timely
acquisition because we can really
enhance what they're doing and the
market is ripe for more storage today. I
find it surprising that the cost
continues to go down, especially just
given the world in which we're living in
more recently. But I'm curious if
there's anything that surprised either
of you. Is there anything that surprised
you as you worked through this
transaction and worked with all of these
stakeholders over the last year year and
a half? Yeah, for sure. I'll offer one
perspective which is public M&A always
needs to be managed very carefully. It
requires strict confidentiality and in
some instances this can limit a buyer's
access to management and information to
complete its due diligence. However, in
the case of NEON, management support,
alignment, and really very rapid
mobilization of highquality information
to facilitate our thorough diligence was
a very positive signal and really a
diligence finding in itself. I think
whenever we acquire a large scale
business, when we really sink ourselves
into it, we find a number of positives
and negatives and we have a business
plan that we need to execute on. with
newen it's early days but it's very much
a similar playbook as we're digging in
we're finding many things as we expected
many things we like about the business a
few things we need to work on but
overall it's extremely positive and I
would just say and today with the
fundamentals where they are our biggest
goal what we really have to focus on is
driving the business plan making sure
all cylinders are firing at the same
time that really has to be our focus so
I wouldn't say it's a surprise but with
scale this is what you normally see and
Brookfield has to really step in and get
the business going and developing and
we're going to find a lot of good things
along the way. That's a perfect place to
end. Thank you both. It was great to
have you here today. I learned a lot.
Thank you. Thank you for having us.
[Music]
Audiation
