[Music]
Brookfield Corporation Q1 2025 letter to
shareholders.
Overview. Our business performed well
with good progress across each of our
core operations. Our asset management
business had inflows of $25 billion and
we added to our real asset credit
franchise by agreeing to acquire a
majority stake in an alternative private
credit manager. Our operating businesses
generated strong earnings driven by
their resilient cash flows and we
strengthened our capital successfully
financing over $30 billion of debt
across our operations.
Well Solutions continued to deliver
strong financial performance and it
received its regulatory license to
launch in the UK. The first dedicated
PRT license granted in the UK since
2007. We advanced a number of important
large-scale investments across the
business. Deploying $16 billion and have
an active pipeline. We monetized
approximately $22 billion of assets
delivering strong riskadjusted returns
to our clients.
We also increased the pace of our share
buybacks in the quarter with the
pullback in the stock markets. To date
this year, we acquired approximately
$850 million of shares, adding intrinsic
value to each remaining share. While the
geopolitical environment is more
uncertain than 3 months ago, our focus
remains the same. Find great businesses
to acquire, buy them when we can acquire
for value, and operate them well once we
own them. History has proven through all
economic conditions that owning great
businesses for long periods of time is
the cornerstone of wealth creation.
Global markets were volatile, our
business
strong. We started the year with
positive economic momentum. To date,
growth and labor market data have
remained resilient, but changes in US
trade policy have created uncertainty in
capital markets. While our businesses
and operations are not immune, they are
generally insulated from the current
environment. This is because our
business focus is on providing essential
products and services which do not rely
on the crossber movement of goods. They
serve customers locally and generally
pass through increased input costs
contractually to the end consumer. As we
have experienced in previous periods of
stress, markets move for reasons that
often don't reflect underlying
fundamentals. This creates opportunities
for experienced, well- capitalized
investors to invest for value.
Regardless of how the current
administration's trade policy develops,
the US remains a premier destination for
investment globally. It is energy
independent, boasts the largest GDP in
the world, has the deepest and most
liquid capital markets, and is a leader
in technology and entrepreneurship.
The administration's objectives focus on
lower taxes, deregulation, and
industrialization, which on balance are
positive from a long-term investment
perspective. We will all get to the
other side of
this. Staying the course, hold or draw,
do not
fold. Reflecting on periods of
uncertainty over the last number of
decades, we would like to offer our
perspective on long-term investing.
While it always feels like the first
time in the moment, we have managed
through many periods similar to the one
we are seeing today. Our objective
always remains the same to create
long-term value for our shareholders by
buying, operating, and owning businesses
for long periods of time. While price
fluctuations in the moment seem
significant, in the fullness of time,
they are likely to represent small
deviations in the overall trajectory of
the long-term compounding of wealth.
Consider that the S&P 500 has delivered
an annualized return of 10% over the
past 30 years. Comparatively, our
shareholders have earned an annualized
return of 18% over that same 30 years by
simply staying invested in Brookkefield.
Below is the S&P 500 chart over the past
30 years. Remember this next time you
feel the urge to sell. To review the
reference chart, please read the
Q1205 shareholder letter on Brookfield's
website at
bn.brookfield.com. With a franchise that
spans 30 countries, we have the
operating expertise to navigate change.
Our consistent investment and operating
approach has allowed us to deliver
stable and growing results for decades.
This includes taking a measured approach
to risk, focusing on execution over
sentiment and investing in the backbone
of the global economy, especially in
periods of greater
uncertainty. Crucial to this success
over the years has also been the
effective allocation and reinvestment of
our free cash flow. We have a broad
perspective on the relative investment
opportunities and capital needs across
our entire franchise. Our philosophy has
always been to largely distribute out
all free cash flow from our operating
companies to the corporation and to
centralize cash flow reinvestment
decisions. This approach becomes even
more valuable during periods of
uncertainty when price can diverge
substantially from value and we are
presented with attractive value
investment opportunities not least
repurchasing our own shares in the
market. So far this year, we have
capitalized on the market volatility to
repurchase approximately $850 million of
our shares at a significant discount to
our view of intrinsic value. Warren
Buffett articulated this point about
capital allocation. Well, Charlie Mer
and I mainly attend to capital
allocation and the care and feeding of
our key managers. Most of these managers
are happiest when they are left alone to
run their businesses and that is
customarily just how we leave them. That
puts them in charge of all operating
decisions and of dispatching the excess
cash they generate to headquarters. By
sending it to us, they don't get
diverted by the various enticements that
would come their way where they
responsible for deploying the cash their
businesses throw off. Furthermore,
Charlie and I are exposed to a much
wider range of possibilities for
investing these funds than any of our
managers could find in his or her own
industry. This deliberate approach to
capital allocation has been a key
contributor to our ability to scale our
business and to withstand economic
cycles across all the sectors in which
we invest. This flexibility is one of
our greatest strengths and is something
we created methodically and meticulously
over many
years. Over the long term, price always
meets value. Market fluctuations are a
natural part of the economic cycle, and
the returns of a great business compound
through all markets, good or bad.
Operating results were strong and should
continue to be. Our first quarter
financial results were strong. Each of
our businesses continues to generate
stable and growing cash flow. Each
demonstrated resilience supported by
strong underlying
fundamentals. Financial results.
Distributable earnings or DE before
realizations were $1.3 billion or 82
cents per share in the quarter and $5.2
$2 billion or
$3.26 per share over the last 12 months.
This represents an increase of 30% per
share over the prior year quarter. Asset
management. Our asset management
business generated distributable
earnings of $684 million or 43 cents per
share in the quarter and $2.7 billion or
$1.71 per share. Over the last 12
months, we raised $25 billion during the
quarter, continuing our strong
fundraising momentum. We closed on our
flagship opportunistic credit strategy
at $16 billion and held the final
institutional close for the fifth
vintage of our flagship opportunistic
real estate strategy. We closed on $5.9
billion in the quarter in that strategy,
increasing total capital raised to date
to approximately $16 billion, already
exceeding our goal. With the final close
out of clients in wealth and regional
sleeves expected over the balance of the
year, we are set to have by far our
largest pool of capital for
opportunistic real estate to date. We
continue to see strong interest for our
second global transition strategy and
expect to hold the final close in the
coming months. Fundraising helped drive
fee bearing capital to $549 billion,
representing an increase of 20% from a
year ago. Subsequent to quarter end, we
announced the acquisition of a majority
stake in Angel Oak, a leading
origination platform and asset manager,
delivering innovative mortgage and
consumer products with over $18 billion
in assets under
management. Wealth Solutions. Our Wealth
Solutions business generated
distributable operating earnings of $430
million or 27 cents per share in the
quarter and $ 1.5 billion or 95 cents
per share over the last 12 months,
benefiting from strong investment
performance and the growth of the
insurance asset base. We continue to
build our insurance float by raising
predictable longduration liabilities.
During the quarter, we originated $4
billion of retail and institutional
annuity sales, increasing insurance
assets to $122 billion quarter end.
Leveraging the broader Brookfield
ecosystem, we continue to gradually
rotate the investment portfolio into
higher quality investments and we're
able to generate an average investment
portfolio yield of 5.7% 1.8% higher than
the average cost of funds, maintaining a
15% return on our invested capital. We
anticipate increasing annualized
earnings from approximately $1.7 billion
today to $2 billion in the near term.
Through our combined wealth solutions
platforms, we are raising close to $2
billion of retail capital per month,
which includes over $650 million a month
from our private wealth
channel. Operating businesses. Our
operating businesses continue to deliver
resilient and stable cash flows,
generating distributable earnings of
$426 million or 27 per share in a
quarter, $1.7 billion or $18 per share
over the last 12 months. Cash
distributions from our renewable power
and transition infrastructure and
private equity businesses were
underpinned by their strong operating
earnings. Additionally, in our North
American residential business, we
generated approximately $640 million of
proceeds through the sale of master plan
communities as we execute on our plan to
shift the business to a more
capital-like model. Our core real estate
portfolio continues to benefit from
increased demand for the highest quality
assets. Positive demand drivers are
further supported by a muted supply
outlook, contributing to higher
occupancy and strong rental growth. As a
result, we are seeing same store NOI
growth of 3% over the prior year
quarter. We remain well positioned to
capitalize on these favorable market
dynamics which should drive sustained
growth across our real estate
portfolio. Monetizations and carried
interest. We continue to implement our
investment business plans and value
creation strategies. Accumulated
unrealized carried interest increased by
14% over the last 12 months to 11.6
billion. As we execute on our
monetization pipeline, we expect to
realize much of this into income over
the next 5 years. While uncertainty in
the current environment may impact
transaction activity, we continue to see
strong demand for the globally
diversified portfolio of highquality
cash generating assets and businesses we
own. We closed approximately $22 billion
of asset sales across the business in
the quarter with substantially all sales
completed at prices in line or above our
carrying values. In our infrastructure
business, we completed the sale of
minority stake in a portfolio of fully
contracted containers within our global
intermodal logistics operation and we
sold two regulated natural gas
transmission pipelines in Mexico. We
agreed to sell the remaining 25%
interest in NGPL, a US gas pipeline.
This closed out an extremely successful
exit from the business, generating total
gross proceeds of over $1.7 billion,
crystallizing an 18% irr and a three
times multiple of capital. We also
agreed to sell a minority stake in a
portfolio of operating sites from our
European hypers scale data center
platform for approximately $460 million
and are progressing the sale of an
additional stake in the portfolio.
In our real estate business, we closed
the previously announced sale of our
luxury 360 key hotel and golf club in
Florida. This transaction marked one of
the largest single US hospitality
transactions in the last 12 months. We
completed the sale of an office asset in
Sydney, a portfolio of US manufactured
housing assets and agreed to sell two
shopping malls in Brazil for
approximately $450 million. We also
agreed to sell a logistics asset in
Sydney for approximately $330 million
Australian dollars, the largest single
asset logistics transaction ever
completed in
Australia. In our renewable power and
transition business, we closed the sale
of the first phase of our Indian solar
and wind portfolio as well as an
electricity generation and storage
facility in the UK. We also reached an
agreement to sell an additional 25%
stake in one of our US wind portfolios.
In our private equity business, we sold
the shuttle tanker segment of our
offshore oil services operation. As we
execute monetizations and return capital
to investors over the course of 2025 and
beyond, we will be well positioned to
realize significant carried interest
into earnings in the coming
years. Balance sheet and liquidity. We
continue to maintain a conservatively
capitalized balance sheet and high
levels of liquidity. At quarter end, our
perpetual capital base was approximately
$170 billion with a modest amount of
longdated corporate debt at the
corporation. This positions us well to
capitalize on attractive growth
opportunities, protects us from downside
risks through market cycles, and enables
us to continue to repurchase shares
opportunistically. We executed on over
$30 billion of financings across the
business. A few highlights include the
corporation issued $500 million of
30-year senior unsecured notes,
achieving its tightest 30-year spread to
date. Similarly, Brookfield Renewable
Partners issued $450 million Canadian
dollars of medium-term notes during the
quarter at its tightest new issue spread
in almost 20 years. In our private
equity business, we completed an up
financing at Clarios, our battery
business, which funded a $4.5 billion
special distribution to shareholders,
representing an approximate 1.5 times
realized multiple on our original
investment while retaining our entire
share of the business. We issued €500
million of bonds at our German office
REIT, a $360 million financing of a
high-quality shopping center in the US
and approximately $430 million Canadian
dollars of bonds on a core office asset
in Canada. In our infrastructure
business, we closed $885 million and
$940 million of investment grade asset
back securities at our US hypers scale
and US collocation data center
businesses respectively. These
financings underscore the continued
demand from lenders for digitalization
opportunities. Wealth Solutions is our
newest engine of
growth. 5 years ago, we established
Brookfield Wealth Solutions, BWS. From
the outset, our objective was building a
business that can generate a durable 15%
plus return on equity through economic
cycles. Our goal is to source low-risk
liabilities and earn our extra returns
by drawing on our differentiated core
competencies across real assets to
invest a portion of the capital into
real asset, credit, and
equity. Real assets are ideal
investments for insurance balance sheets
cuz they generate long-term inflation
protected cash flows. We have a unique
capability in this area. Our investment
approach allows us to operate with
conservative leverage and we have
capitalized our insurance entities with
more than 11 billion of equity capital.
Our insurance operating companies are
stronger and far better capitalized
under our ownership than they were
before and we expect to build on this as
we expand the business's presence
globally. After growing through several
acquisitions in the US over the past few
years, we are now beginning our
international expansion. We were
recently granted the first dedicated
pension risk transfer license in the UK,
the first such license to be granted
since 2007 and plan to bring our strong
track record of servicing policy holders
to the region. With over500 billion
pounds of corporate pension transfers to
insurance companies expected over the
next decade in the UK, this represents a
key market for continued growth.
One of our great advantages is our
ability to leverage the Brookfield
ecosystem, including our vast network
for sourcing investment opportunities.
We can offer our insurance pools access
to transactions that are available to
few other insurance companies. This
includes acquiring investments in real
assets, including real estate, to
deliver attractive riskadjusted returns
through economic cycles, to policy
holders and our shareholders.
Real estate has been a widely held asset
class across the insurance industry for
many years and the insurance companies
we acquired already had a significant
concentration of real estate in their
investment portfolio. Our real estate
business is one of the world's highest
quality, largest and most established
platforms and as owners and operators
over many decades, we have created a
portfolio of the best real estate assets
around the world.
These properties are premier assets in
gateway cities and are exceptionally
compatible with the longdated nature of
the insurance liabilities we manage on
behalf of our policy holders. For these
reasons, our intention is to slowly
migrate some of these assets into BWS's
insurance accounts without materially
impacting the overall allocation to real
estate. By rotating the incumbent real
estate portfolio into a higher quality
class of real estate, we are positioning
our business for continued growth and
attractive riskadjusted earnings. As we
execute our strategy, it is important to
note a few key points. Brookfield Wealth
Solutions NY listing BNT TSX listing BNT
is a paired security to BN, meaning that
both securities BNT and BN share the
same underlying economic value. the
value of overall Brookfield. This means
that there is no winner or loser in any
transactions done because the
shareholders of BN and BNT share the
same economic value. The tax profile for
the shareholder is the only
differentiating economic factor in
owning one security or the other. For
our insurance accounts, all transactions
are subject to a robust review process,
both internal and external, which
includes conflicts committee approval,
third party pricing validation, and
regulatory oversight. Rest assured, we
are building this business for the long
term, and therefore heir on the side of
conservatism in terms of pricing and
process with our regulated accounts. Our
rigorous process ensures these
transactions are always conducted with
integrity and at arms length. And
everything we do to strategically
support the growth of our wealth
solutions business reflects our
long-term commitment to our policyh
holders. Artificial intelligence is
here, but we are still in the early
innings. Artificial intelligence AI is
going to drive remarkable advancements
in productivity and we are just starting
to witness its transformative impact
based on the evolution of other
technologies. We expect to see
everinccreasing improvement in software
and the application to
robotics. Simply stated this will make
companies more productive. And while it
is obvious that the major technology
companies will be winners, the less
obvious real winners will be those that
apply these technologies wisely to
everyday businesses. As AI advances and
becomes more efficient, companies will
be able to introduce it at lower costs.
Before long, we expect businesses will
be able to create models tailored to
their specific needs and trained on
their own data to enhance many aspects
of their operations. We are already
leveraging the productivity benefits of
AI within our portfolio companies,
particularly in private equity. But this
is just the beginning. The US is set to
lead AI breakthroughs supported by
policies promoting the reshoring of key
manufacturing, supply chains, and
technologies. These initiatives aim to
secure America's technological edge and
boost its economy, markets, and defense.
Industrial businesses are investing
heavily to reshore their manufacturing
processes, reinforcing their domestic
supply chains. We see many attractive
opportunities for disciplined investors
like us to continue providing much
neededed capital to fund these
initiatives. These AI and related
industrial opportunities won't be
limited to the United States. Countries
around the world require sovereign AI
and are looking to build many gawatt of
capacity to support their industries.
France, for example, aims to be a data
center leader in Europe given its
surplus of carbon-f free nuclear power
and we have announced a 20 billion euro
infrastructure investment program to
support this
buildout. Digitalization remains a key
driver of our infrastructure business's
current investment pipeline with strong
data center growth expected from both
current and future use cases. A very
large amount of capital is required to
support this and we are well positioned
to be a leader in digitalization and AI
infrastructure while maintaining our
consistent and disciplined investment
approach. The world needs all the power
it can get. Market fundamentals remain
exceptionally strong for power.
Digitalization, reindustrialization, and
electrification are driving robust
demand that far outpaces supply,
favoring platforms of operational scale
and diversification like ours. The low
cost of renewables along with their
ability to be deployed quickly in most
markets means that they continue to
offer the most valuable solution to meet
growing energy demand. Despite recent
weakness in market sentiment, we expect
the significant supply demand imbalance
to help insulate industry leaders like
us who are strategically positioned to
expand our market position as power
demand continues to rise. While shifting
US policy does introduce some risk to
the renewable power sector, it also
presents significant opportunity.
The new US administration's actions to
boost industrial, manufacturing, and
data center activity are expected to
increase electricity demand even more.
We believe the growth prospects for
lowcost mature renewable technologies
are stronger than ever as they will play
a crucial role in meeting these
increasing generation capacity
requirements. As growing energy demand
accelerates, development of energy
storage solutions will be critical to
ensure transmission availability and
grid stability. This represents an
attractive investment opportunity for
investors of scale that have the ability
to deliver comprehensive solutions to
support the electrification of the
global energy grid. The recent blackout
in Spain and Portugal highlights the
clear need for robust grid
infrastructure and stability measures.
We see large-scale battery energy
storage systems and distributed
generation as increasingly important
parts of the solution. An area where we
have been building and adding to our
suite of
capabilities. The robust growth of our
renewables pipeline is broad and
includes projects driven by a corporate
pool from global technology companies
investing substantial capital in data
center development to support
digitalization and AI applications as
well as opportunities driven by the
development of energy storage solutions
aimed at supporting the electrification
of the global grid. As energy demand
accelerates, the largest buyers of power
will increasingly seek credible partners
like us who have the operating expertise
to secure the electricity needs. Our
global team, capabilities, and access to
capital mean that we can deliver
scalable solutions across technologies
and regions few others can. And this
reinforces our position as a partner of
choice among all leading players in the
sector.
In
conclusion, over decades of operations,
we have successfully navigated through
many periods of uncertainty. We remain
committed to our core competencies,
investing in high-quality assets and
businesses that compound strong cash
returns on equity while emphasizing
downside protection for the capital
employed. Our primary objective
continues to be generating increased
cash flows on a per share basis, thereby
enhancing intrinsic value per share over
the long term. Thank you for your
interest in Brookfield and please not
hesitate to contact any of us should you
have suggestions, questions, comments or
ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flat, Chief Executive Officer, May
8th, 2025.
[Music]
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information. All references to dollars
are to US dollars. This letter to
shareholders contains forward-looking
information within the meaning of
Canadian Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon, or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries. as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the Castle Lake
acquisition, including its expected
impact on our business, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, and our target carried
interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions,
including acquisitions and dispositions,
the ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. the
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24. Risks
specific to our business segments,
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise. Past performance is not
indicative nor a guarantee of future
results. There can be no assurance that
comparable results will be achieved in
the future, that future investments will
be similar to historic investments
discussed herein, that targeted returns,
growth objectives, diversification, or
asset allocations will be met, or that
an investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of nonifrs measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below,
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS.
We caution readers that these nonFRS
financial measures or other financial
metrics are not standardized under IFRS
and may differ from the financial
measures or other financial metrics
disclosed by other businesses and as a
result may not be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers and
entities. We make reference to
distributable earnings, which refers to
the sum of distributable earnings from
our asset management business,
distributable operating earnings from
our insurance solutions business,
distributions received from our
ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonifress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these nonifress
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
