[Music]
Brookfield Asset Management Letter to
Shareholders Q1
[Music]
overview. We had a strong start to the
year, marking our highest quarterly
earnings growth since we went public as
a standalone business. Despite recent
market volatility, our long-term growth
outlook is strong. The secular trends
that underpin our strategy continue to
accelerate, including rising demand for
AI infrastructure, surging global
electricity needs, and the growing role
of private credit. Brookfield has a
leadership position in these areas and
deep competitive advantages built on our
long-standing expertise and the
capabilities we've added to the firm in
recent years. This positioning continues
to translate into strong performance. We
raised $25 billion of capital in the
quarter, bringing inflows to more than
$140 billion over the past year. This
reflects a growing client demand for our
strategies and the reach of our globally
diversified fundraising platform.
Notably, we had success in the quarter
raising nearly $6 billion for our
flagship real estate strategy, bringing
total capital to $16 billion. With final
closings from clients in wealth and
regional sleeves still ahead, this will
be our largest real estate strategy
ever. Feebearing capital grew to $549
billion, up 20% over the past year. This
contributed to a 26% increase in fee
related earnings FRE for the first
quarter to a record $698 million or 43
cents per share and a 20% increase in
distributable earnings DE to
$654 million or 40 cents per share. Our
diversified global footprint with
investments and operating professionals
in over 30 countries gives us the
flexibility to allocate capital to the
best opportunities wherever they may
arise. Our franchise is built for
environments like today and we remain
focused on delivering strong results for
investors and clients. The current
environment favors those with scale,
expertise and capital. Periods of
uncertainty are inevitable. While every
cycle is different, they tend to rhyme.
The last time market volatility reached
curtain levels was during the onset of
CO. During that period, we stayed
focused on our strategy, continue to
deploy capital discipline, and
strengthened our market position. Since
then, we've raised more than $400
billion and grown fee related earnings
by
90%. That experience underscores a core
belief of ours. Maintaining the course
through disruption enables us to
continue compounding value and emerge
stronger over time. As Howard Marx wrote
in his most recent memo, "Nobody knows
yet again." When unfavorable
developments are raining down, that's
often the best time to step up. Today,
the macro environment is defined by
heightened geopolitical uncertainty.
Equity markets responded sharply, and
our shares were not immune. Stock prices
often overreact during periods of
uncertainty and we believe the recent
volatility reflects sentiment more than
substance. In response and based on the
conviction we have in our growth
outlook, we were purchased over 2
million shares during the first quarter.
While the near-term outlook remains
uncertain, our long-term strategy is
unchanged and we are well positioned to
navigate this environment. Our cash
flows are 100% comprised of fee related
earnings and approximately 95% of our
fee related revenues are derived from
capital that is either long-term or
perpetual in nature providing a stable
and predictable foundation for
distributable earnings. In addition, our
investments are focused on essential
assets, power, infrastructure, real
estate, and critical business services.
These businesses operate domestically
and serve local demand, making them less
exposed to tariffs and other global
trade shocks. Many are also highly
contracted or regulated characteristics
that support durable valuations and
liquidity, especially when capital is
scarce and investors seek defensive
positioning. Together with our client
relationships, scale, brand, access to
capital, and track record. These
attributes allow us to stay the course
through periods of volatility while
continuing to grow and execute our
strategy. Private markets offer more
stability and the opportunity to
capitalize on
dislocation. Despite heightened
volatility in public markets, private
market conditions have remained
constructive.
Our scale, flexible capital base, and
long-term orientation enable us to
continue deploying and monetizing
significant amounts of capital with
discipline. In times of uncertainty,
investors turn to proven global
platforms with strong track records
where they've built trusted
relationships. That has always been our
core strength. A prime example is our
results in raising capital for our real
estate strategy this quarter. Despite
the environment, we secured commitments
from many of the world's largest and
most sophisticated investors,
demonstrating their strong conviction in
our strategy and platform and providing
us with substantial fresh capital to
invest in an especially attractive point
in the cycle. While parts of the
industry may be more directly affected
by today's volatility, our
diversification across strategies,
sectors, and geographies provides us
resilience. It also allows us to
continue raising and investing capital
behind the global secular themes of
decarbonization, declobalization,
digitalization, and the growing role of
private credit. In particular, we
benefit from distinct advantages in the
current environment. Essential assets
are resilient through cycles. Our
portfolio is well positioned to manage
the implications of new tariffs. While
no one is completely immune to the
various effects of these changes, the
nature of our investments in essential
real assets and critical business
services provides meaningful insulation.
Most of our assets are local businesses
that serve a domestic customer. Further,
many of these assets benefit from
inflation linked revenues and tariff
adjusters that allow us to pass through
rising input costs.
This resilience was tested and proven
during co and the inflationary cycle of
2022 and 2023 when cash flows across
many of our assets not only kept pace
with inflation but in many cases
exceeded it. We have been discussing the
macro trend of deglobalization in recent
years. At the same time across our
business we have proactively diversified
parts of our supply chain in
anticipation of more protectionist
policy shifts. For example, in a
renewable business where tariffs have
been in place for several years, we
adopted a domestic procurement strategy
in the US supported by long-term
agreements with local suppliers. These
steps provide important cost certainty
and we believe position us more
favorably than most market participants.
Our flexible scale capital is more
valuable in times of
uncertainty. Historically, these periods
have provided us with some of the best
opportunities to deploy capital given
our long-term mindset, capital scale,
and the ability to move
decisively. With nearly $120 billion of
uncalled capital, we are well positioned
and fully intend to capitalize
opportunistically on market
dislocations.
This is both in the public markets where
a pullback in valuations is creating
more opportunities to acquire
highquality assets at attractive entry
points and in credit where private
market strategies are playing an even
more meaningful role in generating
opportunities to provide liquidity when
there is less available. At the same
time, governments, corporates, and
institutions are increasingly seeking
partners who can deliver not only
capital but also operating expertise and
execution at scale. These counterparties
are turning to us because of our ability
to move with speed, offer tailored
solutions, be a value ad partner, and
offer confidence to ensure transactions
close. This dynamic is creating a
proprietary and differentiated pipeline
of strategic investment opportunities,
such as the 20 billion euro AI
infrastructure commitment we announced
alongside the French government this
quarter and the recent partnership with
Barclays to grow their payment
acceptance business. The Brookfield
ecosystem provides our investment teams
with access to deep sector expertise,
proprietary insights, and global
operating capabilities, allowing us to
deploy capital quickly and with
conviction when others may be
constrained. With fundraising now
complete for the latest vintage of our
highly successful opportunity strategy,
our Oak Tree franchise is similarly well
positioned to take advantage with
significant capital to deploy in this
environment. Periods like this marked by
uncertainty and dislocation are where
Oak Tre's disciplined valueoriented
approach is particularly powerful.
Throughout every cycle in our history,
we have successfully turned volatility
into opportunity. We believe this time
will be no different. Business group
updates. The first quarter of 2025 was
another strong period for capital
formation and investment activity across
our business. We raised $25 billion of
capital during the quarter. We also
continue to invest capital into
attractive opportunities, deploying $16
billion during the quarter. We generated
approximately $10 billion of equity
through monetizations, many reflecting
the value created by our operational
enhancements over recent years.
Highlights of our activities across each
of our business groups this quarter
include renewable power and transition
fundraising. We raised $1.5 billion of
capital, including $700 million for the
second vintage of our flagship global
transition strategy, bringing the
capital raised to date to over $14
billion. We expect to hold a final close
for this flagship in the coming months.
Deployment. We deployed $3.5 billion of
capital, including the completion of our
privatization of Neoen, a leading global
renewable development business. In
addition, we committed $1.2 $2 billion
towards the acquisition of the US
renewable business of National Grid. The
deal is expected to close in the second
quarter of
2025. Monetizations. We monetized over
$600 million of equity capital. In
addition, we signed an agreement to sell
an additional 25% of our ownership in a
US wind project for $200 million, $1.8
billion, of enterprise value. This sale
is expected to close in the second
quarter of
2025. Infrastructure fundraising. We
raised $800 million of capital,
including over $500 million raised for a
private wealth infrastructure vehicle.
Additionally, we held the final close
for inaugural infrastructure structured
solutions fund of $300 million, which in
total raised approximately $1 billion of
capital commitments. Deployment. We
deployed approximately $500 million of
capital. In addition, subsequent to the
end of the quarter, we signed an
agreement to acquire the midstream asset
portfolio of Colonial Enterprises for
$3.4 billion of equity capital, $9
billion of enterprise value. The
portfolio includes the Colonial
Pipeline, the largest refined products
pipeline in the US. The deal is expected
to close in the second half of
2025. Monetizations. We monetized over
$1 billion of equity capital, including
the sale of two Mexican regulated
natural gas transmission pipelines. In
addition, we signed an agreement to sell
our remaining 25% interest in natural
gas pipeline company of America's US
Natural Gas Pipeline for nearly $400
million of equity, $5.6 billion of
enterprise value. Private equity
fundraising. We raise $1.2 $2 billion of
capital, including $300 million in our
growth and venture secondaries business.
Deployment. We deployed $1.1 billion of
capital, including the acquisition of
Chemiles, a global leader in the design
and manufacturing of electric heat trace
systems. In addition, we committed over
$800 million toward the acquisition of
Ventilia Scientific, a leading
manufacturer and distributor of
specialty consumable products and
testing equipment used in quality
control and research applications. The
deal is expected to close in the second
quarter of
2025. Real estate fundraising. We raised
$7.1 billion of capital, including $5.9
billion for the final institutional
close of the fifth vintage of our
flagship real estate fund.
Deployment. We deployed $1.8 billion of
capital, including into global logistics
platforms in North America, Europe, and
Asia. In addition, we invested over $100
million of equity capital into a
portfolio of 3,800 US single family
rental properties.
monetizations. We monetize $1.2 billion
of equity capital, which includes the
disposition of select assets related to
our acquisition of Trix, a property firm
focused on large-scale logistics assets
in Europe, and the sale of PGA National
Resort. Credit fundraising. We raised
$14 billion of capital, including $6.7
billion from insurance accounts. We
completed the final close of the 12th
vintage of our opportunistic credit
flagship fund, bringing the total
capital raised for the strategy to $16
billion, on par with our largest
opportunistic credit strategy to date.
Deployment. We deployed $9.2 billion of
capital, including $2.3 billion out of
our opportunistic credit flagship
strategy and $1.3 billion across our
other credit partner managers.
Monetizations. We monetize $6 billion
including Cast Lake sale of over 100
aircraft. Robust liquidity to drive
growth. Our access to liquidity remains
strong. We're a top tier client for our
banks and continue to maintain a
diversified mix of funding sources to
support growth. This is especially
important as we continue to use our
strong balance sheet to establish new
investment products and pursue strategic
M&A that grows our earnings and enhances
our
capabilities. Since the spin-off of
Brookfield Asset Management, we've
announced three new partnerships with
leading managers and increased our
ownership stake in Oak Tree, totaling
over $1.4 billion of investment. Looking
ahead, we have a compelling opportunity
to increase our ownership in these
partner managers, excellent businesses
that we know well through existing
options we have in place. This increased
ownership could add more than $250
million to our fee related earnings over
the next 5 years. At the same time, we
continued to demonstrate strong
alignment with our clients by investing
meaningful capital alongside them. Since
our spinout, the Brookfield Group has
collectively committed $16 billion to
our funds. With Brookfield Asset
Management's share focused primarily on
seeding smaller new complimentary
strategies to further support our growth
initiatives, we completed our inaugural
bond offering in April, bolstering our
liquidity position and providing us with
additional flexibility to invest further
in our business. We issued $750 million
of 10ear senior notes and were pleased
with a strong institutional demand which
reflects a robust access to the capital
markets. In connection with offering, we
received high investment grade credit
ratings of A from Fitch and A minus from
S&P reflecting the strength of our asset
light balance sheet and the durability
of our long-term earnings. Pro for the
offering. We have $2.1 billion of
available liquidity comprising cash,
financial assets, and capacity on a
revolving credit facility. At our
current high investment grade ratings,
we have capacity to raise over $4
billion of additional debt capital. And
that capacity should only go up as our
distributable earnings grow. This
capacity provides us a significant
lowcost source of capital to fund our
growth either through acquisition or
seeding further strategies that will
expand our business over
time. Expanding partnerships and
enhancing our credit
capabilities. Today we are one of the
largest private credit managers globally
with a comprehensive multistrategy
platform. We have made meaningful
progress in expanding our credit
platform to meet growing client demand
and broadening our ability to originate
and manage private credit across
strategies and geographies. We recently
completed several initiatives in this
regard which complement our existing
direct investment capabilities.
We announced an agreement to acquire
majority stake in Angel Oak, a leading
origination platform and asset manager
delivering innovative mortgage and
consumer products with over $18 billion
in assets under
management. Angel Oak brings deep
origination strength, a vertically
integrated model, and a decadel long
track record in structured residential
credit.
Angel Oak's platform enhances our
capabilities in the fast growing US
mortgage credit market and complements
our broader credit offering. We expect
to close this transaction over the next
few
months. We increased our ownership
interest in Oakree by
1.5% bringing our total stake to 74% and
reinforcing our long-standing
partnership. With fundraising for the
latest vintage of our highly successful
opportunity strategy now complete, Oak
Tree has significant capital to deploy
on behalf of clients. Periods of
uncertainty and dislocation are where
Oak Tree's disciplined, valueoriented
approach is most powerful. Each of these
actions reflects our broader objective
to build a world-class credit platform
capable of delivering scaled, flexible
capital solutions across market cycles.
With over $320 billion of credit aum,
we're well positioned to meet growing
demand and drive continued
expansion. Closing. We remain committed
to being a worldclass asset manager by
investing our capital in highquality
assets that earn solid returns while
emphasizing downside protection. The
primary objective of the company
continues to be to generate increasing
cash flows on a per share basis and to
distribute that cash to you by dividend
or share
repurchases. Thank you for your interest
in Brookfield and please do not hesitate
to contact any of us should you have
suggestions, questions, comments or
ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flatt, Chief Executive Officer,
Connor Tesy,
President May 6,
[Music]
2025. Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information. All references to dollars
are to US dollars. This letter to
shareholders contains forward-looking
information within the meaning of
Canadian Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries. as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the Castle Lake
acquisition, including its expected
impact on our business, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, and our target carried
interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions,
including acquisitions and dispositions.
The ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. the
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24. Risks
specific to our business segments,
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise. Past performance is not
indicative nor a guarantee of future
results. There can be no assurance that
comparable results will be achieved in
the future, that future investments will
be similar to historic investments
discussed herein, that targeted returns,
growth objectives, diversification, or
asset allocations will be met, or that
an investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities, or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved. Due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes, including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control, the
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation, or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved, and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of nonIFFRS measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below.
Its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS. We caution readers
that these non-IFRS financial measures
or other financial metrics are not
standardized under IFRS and may differ
from the financial measures or other
financial metrics disclosed by other
businesses and as a result may not be
comparable to similar measures presented
by other issuers and entities. We make
reference to distributable earnings
which refers to the sum of distributable
earnings from our asset management
business. Distributable operating
earnings from our insurance solutions
business, distributions received from
our ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
nonifress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these noniffress
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
