[Music]
Brookfield Corporation March 2025 letter
to
shareholders.
Introduction Over the years as our
company has grown, we have always
maintained a singular focus, serving our
shareholders and clients through
economic cycles to protect and enhance
their long-term wealth and financial
security. In doing so, managing our
business with integrity, purpose, and
discipline has been foundational to what
we do and a cornerstone of our
success. Against a backdrop of
significant change and volatility in the
global environment, maintaining this
focus is more important than ever. This
is a responsibility that all of us at
Brookfield take very seriously. And
because of this, we want to take this
opportunity to remind you of some
important aspects of our business today
and how we are managing our growth. We
have always believed that a large global
company such as ours, especially one
entrusted with managing the wealth of
millions of people, should be subject to
detailed oversight and scrutiny. That is
why we have always operated our business
with a deep commitment to transparency
and engagement, providing our
shareholders, clients, and regulators
with full disclosure and regular access
to our business. Reflective of that
commitment, I'm delighted that earlier
this month, our insurance business,
Brookfield Well Solutions, received its
regulatory license to launch in the UK.
This is the first such dedicated PRT
license granted in the UK since 2007 and
follows a comprehensive process of
engagement with the UK's Credential
Regulation Authority, P, in which they
considered every aspect of our business.
The successful outcome of this process
is testament to the quality of our
business. our robust governance and
compliance and our transparent
engagement with
regulators. As we reflect on a busy and
productive start to the year, including
that important milestone for our
insurance business, I want to take the
opportunity to reiterate some of the key
tenants by which we run our business and
explain how this has delivered leading
returns to our shareholders and clients
over three decades. Our 30-year track
record. At its core, Brookfield exists
to generate long-term wealth for
shareholders and clients. We invest our
own capital in our investment strategies
alongside our investors, as many of us
personally at Brookfield do, creating a
unique and very strong alignment between
our interests and those of our
shareholders and clients. We do not make
short-term decisions at the expense of
either our ability to generate
sustainable long-term returns or our
reputation. Period. Over the past 30
years, we have generated a total
compound return of
18,480% for shareholders or an annual
compound return of
19%. Few have matched this and our focus
on long-term investing has been a big
part of this success. Brookfield has
been built over many, many decades. I
have personally been the CEO for nearly
25 years and in that time our
overarching purpose has been to ensure
that we serve our shareholders and
clients. Our structure has evolved over
time and while it does have many parts
it has been built very thoughtfully and
in a disciplined way over the years.
Each part serves an important purpose
providing us with multiple sources of
permanent capital for investment and
growth. It also reflects the markets we
operate in and allows us to address
growing investor demand for the types of
solutions we can provide. It is
precisely because of this structure that
we have become a successful global
investment organization that has
delivered leading returns for our
shareholders and clients over three
decades. Real estate. Our real estate
business is one of the world's largest
and most established platforms and has
been built carefully over decades. Our
success is demonstrated by the fact that
our opportunistic real estate funds have
returned a net irr of 17% since
inception, nearly 20 years. As many of
you will know, real estate is a cyclical
business. But if you own highquality
assets, finance them conservatively in a
way that allows you to weather the
downturns and are never forced to sell
at the low points, real estate offers
the ability to compound capital at very
attractive inflationprotected returns
over a long period of time.
We were investors through the crash in
the '90s, during 9/11, and through the
financial crisis, and came out of those
stronger than before. We take a
long-term approach to our investments,
we maintain our discipline, and we do
not lose our focus through the highs and
lows. Importantly, over the past decade,
when we have chosen to monetize assets,
approximately 90% of the 900 real estate
assets we sold transacted at or above
their IFS carrying values, reflecting
the overall quality of our portfolio and
our conservative approach to
valuations. Over the past 3 years alone,
our real estate assets have sold at an
average of a 3% premium to FRS carrying
value. A final point, we're required. We
always support our businesses and
sometimes that means we pay down
leverage in tougher times. Quite the
opposite to short-term behavior. This
represents prudent management of our
business for the long term.
Insurance. As you know, 5 years ago, we
established an insurance business today
called Brookfield Wealth Solutions or
BWS.
It has since made a number of
acquisitions in the US and as mentioned
above is now beginning to expand
internationally having just received its
license from the P in the UK. We are
proud of the fact that the insurance
companies owned by Brookfield Wealth
Solutions are stronger and better
capitalized under its ownership than
they were before. So far, BWS has
invested 11 billion of our own equity
capital into the business. It is
important to note that this is all
balance sheet and not third party
capital. Investing permanent capital
will help these businesses grow for
decades to come. Brookfield Wealth
Solutions is building a sustainable
insurance business that can compound
capital over multiple decades. Our
objective from the start has been to run
the business with conservative leverage,
strong capitalization, and focus on
low-risk longduration liabilities.
ensuring that the protection of policyh
holders is always the primary factor in
decision-making. We believe that over
capitalizing BWS and matching the
longduration liabilities with
highquality credit and longduration
inflation protected real assets provides
us with the opportunity to deliver
attractive riskadjusted returns through
the cycle to both policy holders and our
shareholders.
One of our great strategic advantages is
our vast sourcing network, which means
we can offer access to transactions
available to few other insurance
companies. If on occasion those
transactions have a related party
component to them, as you would expect
from us, they are subject to a robust
internal review process, third party
validation, and regulatory reporting and
oversight.
In addition, Brookfield Corporation and
Brookfield Wealth Solutions are paired
securities for the time being with the
shares of Brookfield Wealth Solutions
being exchangeable into and economically
equivalent to the shares of Brookfield
Corporation. As a result, any gain or
loss in one entity would affect the
owners of both. This was extremely
important to us as it eliminates any
conflict for the owners.
The types of longduration investments we
make at Brookfield are ideally suited
for the longduration liabilities of
these insurance companies. Brookfield
Wealth Solutions has reshaped these
insurance company portfolios to ensure
they are highquality, durable and serve
policy holders. This business is a core
and strategic growth driver for
Brookfield and the long-term commitment
to policy holders is at the center of
everything Brookfield Wealth Solutions
does. Closing. We remain committed to
investing capital for you in highquality
assets. They earn solid cash returns on
equity while emphasizing downside
protection for the capital employed. The
primary objective of the company
continues to be generating increased
cash flows on a per share basis and as a
result higher intrinsic value per share
over the longer term.
Thank you for your interest in
Brookfield and please do not hesitate to
contact any of us should you have any
suggestions, questions, comments or
ideas you wish to share. Sincerely,
Bruce Flatt, Chief Executive Officer,
March 19th,
[Music]
2025. End note. Results are shown on a
compound return basis as of and up to
January 31st, 2025. Cautionary statement
regarding forward-looking statements and
information. All references to dollars
are to US dollars. This letter to
shareholders contains forward-looking
information within the meaning of
Canadian Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933, the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries. as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, and our target carried
interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions
including acquisitions and dispositions,
the ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. The
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24 risks
specific to our business segments
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate, and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive, and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements, and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements, which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a
guarantee of future results. There can
be no assurance that comparable results
will be achieved in the future, that
future investments will be similar to
historic investments discussed herein,
that targeted returns, growth
objectives, diversification or asset
allocations will be met, or that an
investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. When we speak about our wealth
solutions business or Brookfield Wealth
Solutions, we are referring to
Brookfield's investments in this
business that supported the acquisitions
of its underlying operating
subsidiaries.
