[Music]
Uh well, welcome back to another
conversation with one of our
contributing authors to this crossing
the threshold piece that we just
published uh here from Kai Association.
Uh I'm joined by Fran Canyrie who's uh
principal and head of the advisor
research center at uh the Vanguard
Group. Um, and Fran uh was one of the
main contributors to this piece and
excited to talk a little bit more with
you uh today. So Fran, thanks so much
for uh joining me.
>> Glad to be here, Aaron. Thank you.
>> Great. Well, thanks Fred. So I I wanted
to start with a with a question uh maybe
about you um and you've got a long
history uh with Vanguard um with uh the
investment options that you all uh offer
uh clients. But if we start with you
just as an investment professional, I'd
love for you to just walk through kind
of your your journey as we talk about in
this piece integrating alts as a journey
and there's a lot of uh points along the
way of that journey. Uh but talk about
your own personal journey as an
investment professional of integrating
alts uh into a portfolio.
>> Yeah, sure. Uh my journey actually
starts a little bit before Vanguard. Um
I was at a family office, a multif
family office and we were heavily
invested in uh you know alternative
investments, venture capital and private
equity. Um all the way back in as far
back as the mid 1990s.
Um but fast forward leaving the the
family office, I came to Vanguard to
help Vanguard start uh our advice
business into advice. Vanguard had been
known as an asset manager. uh we were
also uh offering out uh wealth
management capabilities. And so part of
that I was uh my role was global head of
portfolio construction uh for about 20
years. And what that meant is
researching not only the public listed
asset classes but also alternative asset
classes whether they be in liquid
alternative form or an illquid form. And
so um in nu 2019 when Vanguard uh
decided that they wanted to go into
private equity uh given my experience
and background I was just in the right
place right time and very fortunate that
they u asked me to lead that entry uh
really from start to finish really the
research case the investment case the
manager search the manager selection
negotiation of the terms uh to hiring
the manager and then going to market
with the offer in in 2020.
>> And Fran, maybe sticking with with
Vanguard for a second and and obviously
there's a lot of research that goes into
this from from your perspective from an
investment value proposition, the
manager selection as you just mentioned,
but there's that whole other part of
this where you've got to actually bring
it to market with your clientele. And
I'd love for you to spend some time
talking about that experience and some
things that you may have learned along
the way. um bringing an investment case
to more of a business case to maybe a
group of people that this is completely
new to. Uh what are some things that you
learned along the way there?
>> Yeah, what I learned mostly is you have
to get a lot of things right. Um you
know you're making a very good point,
Erin. Um you know you can have the
research case uh you know there's a case
for adding XYZ asset class but that's
not enough right? The next step is can
you uh assure yourself getting top
quartortile managers and how will you
even know uh given lack of persistence
and is there persistence um and then and
then can you get the manager on gross
alpha but net alpha so are you getting
terms uh that lead you there. So those
are all three things that you have to
get right. Um you know you would
probably need diligence, you would need
size, you would need capabilities to do
all those things, right? But that's just
what I would say is the front end of it.
The middle end and the back end is then
well then how do you take this out to
market for clients? You know clients are
used to um potentially being more
liquid. Uh you can buy a ticker whether
it be an ETF or a mutual fund. Uh
they're they're exchangeraded. You can
trade them any day. You can leave them
any day. Um the onboarding process is a
lot cleaner, a lot smoother as you start
to introduce, you know, illlquid asset
classes. The friction involved of, you
know, onboarding a client, the time that
it takes, uh the paperwork that they
have to, you know, be willing to go
through. Uh so there's a lot of areas on
the client service side that's just on
boarding to even get them ready to do
illlquid investments. Then you have
capital calls. Um then you have you know
the tax reporting on uh the continuous
tax reporting of all this. So uh
literally you have to get a dozen things
right and the stars have to align. So I
would not underestimate the effort that
goes into it. But if you get all those
things really well done, it can improve
end client outcomes.
>> Is there anything that you did um when
you were going through that uh the
middle part of that process, the
onboarding and getting client ser?
Anything that you did either from an
education perspective or from a process
perspective that really resonated with
your internal staff? Um maybe some
things that didn't resonate as much uh
things you learned uh or bumps along the
the road for that that middle part of
the process.
I think we did a lot of education. Um,
you know, Vanguard is known of indexing
and low cost, but we also believe in
active management and, you know, we
showed through education that if you're
only going to get the median uh private
investment, um, you know, you're
probably going to underperform public
markets. And then all of that effort I
just talked about um you went through
all of the extra efforts uh to do this
and the back end of all the accounting
and taxes to get listed returns probably
doesn't seem like a great tradeoff. So
we did a lot of education of how
important it is to make sure you're
sourcing from the top quartortile
managers. Uh do you believe that that is
persistent or not? uh really making sure
clients understood that this was you
know a 10 to 15year investment not a 10
to 15month investment that their capital
would be indeed uh locked up there for a
while. So we did spend a lot of time on
the education and we don't think it's
right for everyone. We were very
selective of what clients could bear the
illquidity. Um, you know, if a if a
client is in distribution or retirement
income or they may have some kind of uh
needs, you really want to make sure that
it's the right client fit through
education and matching the appropriate
archetype of a client that would make
sense for this type of investment.
>> And you talk a lot about that in the
piece itself um in your particular uh
section. And it's it's interesting as I
read through each of the authors, you
spend a lot of time um talking about
non-investment related cases or not
cases uh for integrating alts which I
think is so important um before even
making that investment decision profile
taxes uh ability to to bear the
illquidity. So, as you kind of thought
about the profile and maybe you can just
expand upon what you just said, but you
think about that profile of the client
where this was appropriate versus the
client that it wasn't appropriate. Uh
how did you make those distinctions and
uh make those offerings uh to the client
base?
>> Yeah, we um we started with u obviously
duration of the client, right? So, when
I say duration of the client, making
sure that the client had a long-term
horizon, uh that they were not going to
need uh any of this money, they were not
in retirement income or even some some
form of giving strategy. Um so, we would
want the client to be net net in
contribution mode as opposed to
distribution mode. Um we also um have uh
it's a qualified offer, so there are
certain assets and income thresholds. So
we believe that clients could forebear
the risk should this not turn out and
again it's not a guarantee right with
all of investments um the fact that the
research suggests you can enhance uh the
portfolio through this pro you know this
process doesn't mean that the future
will play out like the past but for an
ultra high netw worth client or an
endowment or foundation um adding a
sleeve of this from the public equity
sleeve I think that's also important
where do you fund it from we think of
high-risisk and lowrisk buckets and we
would always want to fund a high risk
from a high risk um and I know there's a
lot of you know we're just talking
private equity but there's also private
credit is becoming more and more and you
how do you think about funding things
like that you know you would probably
want to make sure you understand what
are the underlying components and what
are some of the worst month worst
quarter worst year to figure out is this
more a high risk or lowrisk asset. Just
because it has credit in the name or
equity in the name doesn't always tell
you everything. And so I think you have
to really get under the hood and do due
diligence there uh because sometimes
names can be deceiving.
>> Yeah. And I I think that's a great point
on the sourcing front. Maybe uh to take
that a little a step further um even in
the offerings that you you offer at
Vanguard, it's even diversified within
uh you know if we talk about private
equity, it's not a single manager. You
you I think you've thought a lot about
the experience uh and and the fact that
some of these uh clients you know can't
invest across you know 10 15 different
funds. So how how did you come to that
conclusion and how did you think about
the construction of the actual offering
itself uh given what you mentioned about
manager selection median returns uh and
so on.
Yeah, when you think about uh you know
again public equity markets um are very
diversified, right? There's there's
growth equities, there's value equities,
there's small cap, there's emerging
markets and they go through different
cycles and we would never want to tell a
client to put all of their assets in
emerging markets or all of their assets
in value. If you think about private
equity for the same thing occurs. You
have venture capital um which would be
more early stage startups. Uh you have
secondaries which are um instruments
that have been in the market and now are
trading in a secondary. You have the
traditional buyout market. They have
very different risk and return profiles
to them. Then you have managers and
managers as good as they are and as good
as their past record they have cycles.
And so rather than having you know we're
known for having a multi-manager program
on our public side we think about that
on the private side too because there is
very unique domain expertise. Uh that
what makes a manager really excellent in
one domain may not make them portable to
another domain. So we may have 30 to 40
managers across the different styles of
private equity. Uh and that gives us
diversification from the style of
private equity but also diversification
of the manager. And so underneath all of
that you may have anywhere from 5 to 700
underlying operating companies. And so
thinking about the case for indexing,
why the case for indexing does so well
and then why the case for active can do
well worldclass managers broadly
diversified
not in a corner solution of one area of
the market let's say just emerging
markets or just value but across the
ecosystem we think that'll give us the
best opportunity of long run success.
>> That's great. And and so Fran maybe a
final question for you and and I think
Vanguard maybe if I can be hyperbolic
for a second Vanguard is the the uh
extreme version of the 6040 portfolio if
you will and you know fully public index
lowcost and you know you you've brought
this solution into clients uh portfolios
for others who might be new to this and
they've got their own you know 6040
portfolio or some variation of that who
are starting that process maybe they've
already dipped their toe into it are
thinking about scaling it up. What
advice do you have things to consider uh
either from an adviser or a client or
practice management perspective?
>> Yeah, I would say two things there and
one to put a plug in for the paper and
all the great work you do at Kaya and
the team is make sure that you educate
yourself, right? Um you really want to
go in with eyes wide open. I try to
articulate all the things you have to
get right. So I would start with
education and really understand it. And
then the second thing is do don't have
FOMO right the 6040 portfolio for those
of you who follow some of my work in
advisors alpha and others the 6040
portfolio has outperformed 85 to 90% of
the nubo database for those who may not
know nubo is a database that tracks the
largest endowments and foundations so
this is the the yales the Harvards of
the world they use 40 to 50% alternative
unlisted securities and the 60 40 70 30
whatever allocation you want has
outperformed 80 to 90% of this very
sophisticated universe and it's pretty
simple to implement without getting all
those things right so um I would say
don't underestimate how many things have
to go right don't have FOMO if you
decide it's a it's a bridge too far the
60 40 7030 portfolio is probably going
to put you in a really good company
going forward but if you do have the
client base. We mentioned client fit and
the expertise and the time to educate
yourself. We do think if you do it
right, it can enhance portfolios uh for
the right client with the right segment
if you have the right patience and
diligence.
>> Well, excellent. I think uh we'll leave
it there, Fran. Thanks so much for your
contributions uh to the paper and for uh
for the conversation.
>> Oh, thanks Aaron. I really appreciate
it.
[Music]
