It is late at night or very early
in the morning, the time when the
last partygoers leave the
dance floor and go home. Around 5:30 a.m.,
a van leaves the VIP parking lot of this
nightclub and heads onto the
beach road when suddenly,
the vehicle is targeted. From
a black .44, the shooters sprayed the
van's windshield and then opened fire
on the side windows. The result: one dead
and one seriously injured. But the attackers targeted the wrong people
. The man in question
had actually returned to
his hotel an hour earlier in another vehicle. This
man is not just anyone. This
is Julien Schrzer, better known
by his stage name Sch.
Three hours before the shooting, the
Marseille rapper was performing in this club.
But who wants to kill SCH? Behind
this shooting, many members of a
notorious criminal organization in the south of France.
The DZ Mafia. The DZ Mafia. this group of
drug traffickers who dominate the
drug market in the region.
In this video, we tell you
how this organization, which did
not exist before 2023, took
control of Marseille in just 3 years,
to the point of driving away
local personalities who were victims of death threats and
attempted extortion.
The story begins in the
northern districts of Marseille, more precisely here
in the 14th arrondissement, the
family home. These small, colorful,
two-story buildings stand out from
the typical high-rise social housing blocks of this part
of the city. This complex
now has 184 apartments for
approximately 700 residents. Built in
haste in the late 1950s, it was intended
to provide
temporary housing for poor families,
particularly immigrants, who were living in
shantytowns. But since the late
1980s, problems have been piling up.
unemployment, failing public services and
virtually
non-existent public transport.
It's all over the city, but
it's particularly problematic
in the northern districts which are
quite far from
employment centers. All of this ultimately contributes
to the isolation of the neighborhoods, right?
Social and economic misery
becomes fertile ground for
drug trafficking to take root. And if it works so
well for the mother, it's
thanks to that. The motorway is located opposite
an exit of the 7, one of the
busiest motorways in the country which connects
Marseille to Lyon. The paternal home is very
easily accessible by car and
since 2016, it has also been connected to the
L2, a road which relieves the east of the
city and which connects with
the A50 motorway towards Toulon.
In a city where transport options
are very limited, the family home enjoys
an ideal location. Customers
come by, pick up their products and
head off on the road. It's literally
like a fast food drive-thru. From
the 2000s onwards, the district has two
island points managed by residents of
the city. But the arrival of the ring road in
2016 boosted sales and two other
points were created. Alliances may arise from
episodes of
violence between the different clans, but
overall the four drug dealing points
manage to coexist to make
business work. At the entrance, the
fountain point is managed by the Yoda clan,
headed by Felix B, nicknamed the cat.
I can hit her, Yoda.
This is the most profitable spot in the
city. It captures 70% of the clientele and
at the height of its activity, it can
bring in up to €100,000 per day. At the
top, the store, the second most
profitable point. Dismantled by the police in
2018, it was taken over in 2019 by Karim H,
known as rent, on behalf of the Bassins clan.
Bassins is the city opposite, on the
other side of the highway, where 7 is at the
head of the Medy L clan, behind
bars for 10 years for having
participated in a triple murder with
his brother. During his incarceration,
Rent en plan is handling his affairs
for him. The middle and
old mill points are managed by other
networks. The four groups are
competitors but collaborate to provide
warning in case of a police raid.
But in 2020, an event will
disrupt the
family's organization. More than 10,000 deaths linked to
Covid-19. Without a certificate, the French
no longer have the right to leave their homes
.
Marseille is in lockdown. However,
unlike other traffickers, the
mother's networks
still manage to obtain supplies, which
commands respect in the community.
Now, the mother is playing in the
big leagues and after the lockdown,
drug use is increasing in
France. The family business has never been so
profitable and naturally, that makes people
envious. It is at this same time that a
key character returns to the forefront of
the scene. Medyel, nicknamed Tic, gets out of
prison in 2021. He takes over the Maga point
at rent after a bloody war.
He accuses the latter of having wanted to
take his place while he was
incarcerated. Once the Maga point was in
his hands, the tic became bigger. In the spring of
2022, he closed both outlets in the
center by targeting their clientele.
At the paternal home, only
two clans remain: Yoda downstairs and Bassins
upstairs. They are beginning to take
shape. Other drug traffickers
behind bars go to Médiel
to falsify a plan. The goal?
to become the most influential criminal group
in Marseille.
Intelligence services refer to this
organization as the cupola. This is in
fact the beginning of the DZ mafia.
At the family business, Yoda's point is becoming
more and more profitable and is starting to attract the attention of the
Bassin clan.
This marks the end of the cordial relationship between
the two groups.
These tensions will reach a point of
no return after an event that
occurs more than 10,000 km from
Marseille. Legend has it that a
fight broke out on the night of
February 9-10, 2023 between Tic and the cat
in a nightclub in Pouquette,
Thailand. Did the two clan leaders meet
by chance, or
were they there to discuss business?
History doesn't say, but he reportedly argued
over a girl before
throwing ice cubes in his face.
War is declared between the two clans
and what investigators had
previously called the cupola
officially becomes the ADZ mafia.
DZ stands for Zair, Algeria in Arabic.
The DZ Mafia will be called DZ Mafia
because in the Italian mafia,
loyalty to the family is stronger.
This name first appeared on
March 12, 2023 in a video
claiming responsibility for a murder ordered
by the DZ. The war between Yoda and the
Dis Mafia is wreaking havoc. In just one
year, 35 people were killed. Marseille
had not experienced such violence
for over 30 years. Before the sad
record reached in 2023, the year in which
organized crime had claimed the most
victims in Marseille was in 1987
with 45 deaths.
But in March 2024, an event will
mark the death knell for the Yoda clan:
the arrest of Félix B in Casablanca.
The mafia has won. But to last,
the young organization now needs to
diversify.
We sometimes have a very simplistic view
of organized crime. There is a lot of
money coming in, but there are also a
lot of expenses.
After drug trafficking, she
expanded her activities to prostitution and
extortion of traders and prominent
figures. For several years,
the DZ mafia, for example, tried to
extort €300,000 from S, who always
refused to pay.
I'm a musician, so I don't have
time to be a gangster.
On the brink of death, he had to leave his
hometown and now says he lives
like a criminal. But the mafia's decision is doing
things backwards. In
the history of French organized crime,
it has always been first
prostitution and extortion, then
drug trafficking. A strategy that
made it possible to launch
criminal activities without needing to invest a
lot of money initially.
We are dealing with a criminal organization
that is massively engaging in extortion
while already being involved in
drug trafficking. So the hypothesis is that the DNA
mafia might have
recruitment problems and therefore is looking for another
activity where it needs to bring in
cash quickly. A second hypothesis
would be that the organization understands that in order to establish
a foothold in the territory,
it must resort to extortion
and racketeering, control
businesses, and have a greater presence. not
only in the working-class neighborhood,
but being present in
downtown businesses or, well,
criminal groups that
prey on and extort money in Marseille, that's
not really new.
Marseille is a port, and where there's a port, there's
flow, there's merchandise, and
inevitably there's traffic.
In the 60s and 70s, the
fashionable drug was heroin sold by the
famous French Connection. In the
80s and 90s, cannabis
came mainly from North Africa,
and since the 2010s, a
white tsunami of cocaine has come from Latin America.
But with the DZ mafia, the authorities are
facing an anomaly in the world of
drug trafficking because this ultra-
violent group manages everything remotely. And that's
unprecedented.
The bosses of the DZ Mafia recruit
low-level operatives directly on
social networks like Snapchat or
encrypted messaging services like Telegram or
Signal. operatives who do not
necessarily know the territory to which they are
sent, which makes it possible to
further obscure the trail.
Recruiting people who are from
outside the city
ensures their silence,
since they don't know the city,
they don't know the competition, and
therefore they will not inform the police or
opposing teams.
Once recruited, the young people receive
instructions from
intermediaries responsible for relaying
orders from the leaders. They are then provided with
weapons, vehicles and all the
necessary logistics. All this without him
really knowing who was behind these
orders. Their mission ranges from simple
logistical tasks such as transporting
goods or monitoring a drug
deal, to missions as
contract killers. A kind of temporary work for criminals, paid
by the day.
The children do not have access to
strong economic resources.
Inequalities are exploding in our country,
so alongside a small summer job that we
could sometimes have, there's €200
a day for being gay. Why not
? The recruits are increasingly
younger, sometimes barely 14 years old.
Increasingly younger recruits to
avoid legal risks, too, right?
And if the bosses of the DZ mafia delegate
so much, it is simply because
they are behind bars and have been
since the beginning of the organization.
Among the alleged leaders, Madis Zerdou
alias the brute, Amine Walan alias Mamine
and Gabriel Ori alias Gaby and then Tic the
only one outside. Well, that's what we
presume. All these men have one
thing in common. They are barely between 30 and 36
years old.
Someone who is extremely young could
be at the head of such an organization.
What is it that allows three people
who are known to
never get out, or have little chance of getting out,
to establish their legitimacy and
their command? Specifically,
violence. Even if I have managed to demonstrate that
I can reach anyone from my
cell with a mobile phone, it
is still very likely that
outside, I will feel the
compelling need to obey the leader because I
know that I am the one who could die. And it is
impossible to establish this legitimacy
without the help of accomplices within
the administration itself.
At the time of the visit, the
prison officer closes his eyes, turns his
back, and lets the cell phone in
. I wouldn't want to be a
prison guard threatened by a
professional gangster. that corruption exists
and it is thanks to this that they were able to create
their criminal organization and
endure.
But what really differentiates the
mafia's approach from its predecessors is
the use of
particularly unrestrained violence.
It is a concentration of violence in
a very short space-time that creates
innocent victims who are not
involved in the trafficking.
In 2023, the number of
drug trafficking victims in Marseille was
largely due to the normalization of
Kalashnikov-type weapons of war. In
traditional organized crime, they like
the revolver, they like a pistol. The
novelty is indeed that
inexperienced young people are using
weapons of war, assault rifles. And
well, it requires a certain level of skill.
Normally, when you're a
criminal organization, a bit more thoughtful, you do
n't immediately go and burn down the store, do you?
In fact, this recourse to extreme violence
hides a weakness. The Mafia is
a young organization and it is not yet
sufficiently established in the
territory.
The Italian mafias are significantly
less violent because they
are sufficiently established that they no
longer need to resort to
overt violence. And the consequence
of this extreme violence is that it
attracts the attention of the
police, the media and the
political authorities. Last March, Operation
Octopus led to the arrest of
dozens of members of the DZ mafia with
more than 40 arrests and around
twenty charges brought against them. There is a
concept that seemed important to us
to address. Just because the DZ
mafia calls itself a mafia doesn't mean it actually is
one.
The typical reference to the mafia
is still the Italian mafia. In
fact, the mafia in Italy is a
partner of the state. agagite in concert
with the State. But it's not in France, we
could perhaps talk about a cartel, but that still needs to be
verified.
Not only does the DZ mafia
not participate in political life, but it would
seem that it is positioning itself in
opposition,
as in 2025 when it allegedly attacked
French prisons to protest
against the conditions of detention. And
unlike traditional mafias, which are
highly hierarchical and sometimes come from the
same family, the DZ mafia operates in a
much more nebulous way. There is
not one leader or one person, but
several figures who each lead
their team, their point of view and their
activities. So, where do we stand with the
mafia today? Did
the judicial operation of March 2026
put an end to the organization?
It's much too early to say.
On the other hand, this over-coverage in the
media has brought the
issue of drug trafficking in France back to the forefront and has
forced the authorities to react. The
Minister of Justice announced
the opening of high-security prisons
with ultra-strict isolation regimes
for the
most dangerous drug traffickers.
This is not simply a prison
but a new,
much stricter detention regime. the fact that he
can make very few phone calls, and has
extremely strict search conditions
.
Darmanin has taken a
very strong repressive approach. He had forgotten one thing, which is that this is
bordering on respect for
human rights, the strict isolation in
the Italian style, it was necessary to propose a
status of cooperator of justice so that, as
in Italy, I
put you in strict isolation but you have a
window of exit. In Italy, this status
has allowed former members of the mafia
to benefit from protection and
reduced sentences in exchange for
crucial information about the criminal organization.
