In March 2000, the world entered the
new millennium with an
unprecedented passion for the internet. And at the top of
this completely euphoric pyramid,
we find a man, massayoshison.
For 3 days, he even became the
richest man on the planet, surpassing
Microsoft founder Bill Gates.
It's worth tens of billions of
dollars, but the story is just
beginning. At the end of 2001, the dot-com bubble
burst. The markets are collapsing. In just a
few months, Masayoshison saw
% of his personal fortune disappear.
This is one of the greatest
destructions of individual wealth
in modern financial history.
$70 billion goes up in smoke.
For any
normally constituted human being, this is the end. the
tipping point towards madness or
absolute despair, but not for him. And
to understand how one survives
such a free fall without crashing to the ground,
we need to go back in time. We need to
understand the psychology of a man who
has always played for his survival, for whom everything is
doubled.
for the 21st century.
The market went down in the
tech crash and it is said that you
personally lost billion of net worth.
The greatest loss that any human being
has ever suffered financially. So, how
did you feel losing billion of net
worth? One year before that actually my
personal network was increasing
billion per week. For days became
Richard and Burgates.
Masayos was born in 1957 in Japan, but he is not
really Japanese in the eyes of
society. He comes from a family
of Korean origin. These are what are
called Aishiniki. From a very
young age, he experienced the consequences
of everyday racism. He
quickly understands that he is trapped in a system
and that no matter how intelligent and
ambitious he is, he could remain on the
margins of society, unable to
pursue his goals. And that, that makes
a rage grow inside him. At
16, he made a radical decision. He
fled to the United States to study.
It is there, far from contempt, that he will
forge his weapon of mass revenge:
technology. At university, he
developed the patent for a
pocket-sized electronic translator. It's a
truly brilliant, early stroke of genius. In
1978, he managed to sell this concept to
the Japanese firm Char for $1 million
. At just 21 years old, he has just
laid the first stone of his
empire. His investor DNA is fixed
forever. High technology will be
his revenge on the world, and he is
now ready to bet everything to win.
That's what he did in the late
90s. The problem is that the
stock market crash
wiped out almost everything in its path. He is
sitting on a mushroom ruin but instead of
retreating, keeping a low profile and
moving on, he decides to
counterattack violently. His
intuition screams at him that the true
technological future belongs to
ultra-high-speed internet. But there is
a major problem, and it's on the
ground. In Japan, the
telecommunications market is in a situation of
near-monopoly controlled by the
public giant NTT. No one can enter
without official authorization.
The administration systematically blocks
all of his requests to launch his
own Yaoibi network. And be
careful, the name can be
misleading. This is not a
website but a DSL offer, a bit
like a kind of Freebox of the time.
In fact, the Japanese already have access to the
internet, but it's slow and, above all,
extremely expensive. At that point, in order to fully realize
his vision, he
quickly understood that diplomacy would lead
nowhere. It takes a brilliant move, or rather,
a moment of madness. He then
physically went to the Ministry of
Telecommunications in Tokyo. He enters
the office of a senior official in
charge of the case and that's where the
thriller begins. Massayoshison
places a lighter on the desk. He
announces in a calm but determined voice
that if he is still refused the licenses
he needs to break this
public monopoly, he will simply immolate himself right
here in this
official building. So, the threat seems
excessive, but it demonstrates a
determination that is terrifying. Nothing
seems to be able to stop him. And the worst part of
this story is that the
blackmail is working. Caught off guard
by this behavior, the administration eventually gave in
. Masayoshi finally obtains his
precious licenses, but he is still halfway there
because once the
authorizations are obtained, the hardest part
remains to be done. He needs to win over
customers and once again, he's not going to hold back
. It
constitutes a veritable army of young
students. He posts them under small
red parasols at every major
intersection in Tokyo with a
simple instruction: distribute modems
for free to passers-by. Hundreds
of thousands of terminals are offered
on the street to force adoption of
its network with a promotional offer
to get free months and test
the quality of the service. It's a
kamikaze strategy that will lose money and back down.
But once again, the planets are
aligning for Massayoshison. He
achieved the miracle of breaking into the
market and his company Softbank was
financially resurrected.
The man ruined by the dot-com bubble has just imposed himself
by force and
intimidation. He has proven to the
whole world that he is absolutely
uncontrollable and that it is best not to get in
his way.
If Massai Yoshison can afford to
wage this marketing war in the
streets of Tokyo to save his empire,
it's because he's hiding a secret. It's as
if his mind was in several different
time spaces at once. While he is
fighting in Japan, a seed
planted a few months earlier is
silently and
secretly germinating. Just before the
internet bubble burst and destroyed
his fortune, Massayoshison was neither in
Tokyo nor on Wall Street. He is in Beijing.
He is on the hunt, far from the
Western euphoria surrounding
technological values, he is organizing
meetings with dozens
of local entrepreneurs. He's going from one
appointment to the next at a frantic pace. He
desperately wants to find the next
Asian gem before the
Americans snap it up.
A man introduces himself in the meeting room. He bears no resemblance whatsoever
to the stereotype of the
founders of Silicon Valley. He doesn't
know how to write a single line of code.
He has no technological background and his name is
Jackma. He is a former
English teacher who struggles to make a
decent living. When he
speaks before Massayuson, his file
is empty. He doesn't really have a
business plan or
revenue projections, no real data that
could prove profitability in the long
term. Nothing that an
investment banker would require to open a
file. All Jacquma has is
a conviction and a very
optimistic discourse about the future of online commerce
in China. Five minutes is the
exact time it took Masayoshison's brain
to make one of the
most lucrative decisions in the entire
history of modern capitalism. He
stops him abruptly, looks him straight in the
eyes and decides to entrust him with a
real fortune. He will invest
$20 million in this
almost empty shell. And this shell
already has a name: Alibaba. So
obviously at that moment, around the
table, Masayoshi's own advisors
were petrified, whereas Wall Street
would undoubtedly have described this move as
crazy and reckless. Signing so quickly and
without any proof of
the company's merits is hard
to understand, except for Masayoshison
who has a golden rule that he follows to the
letter. Trust
people more than numbers. And Jackma,
he perceives the same animalistic rage to
win that has driven him as much as it has driven him
since childhood. And time will prove him right in an
absolutely
crazy way. While Softbank goes through
the hell of the stock market crash and the
telecom war, Alibaba will grow in
the shadows and gradually devour the
Chinese market. I'm taking a small leap
forward. In September 2014, Alibaba made
a triumphant and historic entry onto the
New York Stock Exchange. And for Massayoson,
it's a big day. The initial investment was
$20 million. The very bet he
made in a Beijing meeting room
14 years earlier has turned
into a colossal stake
valued at over $60 billion.
A stratospheric return on investment
that taught a lesson to
many financiers of the time.
Masayoshi has just proven to the world
that his intuition can defeat
armies of graduate analysts. But
to fully understand its hold on the
world of technology, we must put
aside this triumph and go back once again to about ten
years
earlier. Because while
Alibaba was experiencing crazy growth, the head of SoftBank had
his brain working overtime on a completely
different front. He understands that the
fixed internet for which he fought in the
streets of Tokyo is no longer sufficient. According to
him, the future of all humanity
will fit in his pocket. It was then the
summer of 2005 and he decided to take a
direct flight to Cupertino, the birthplace
of Apple in California. He has a
very specific and slightly crazy goal in mind: to
go see Steve Jobs. The two men had
already met a few
years earlier at a computer trade show
in Las Vegas. This time,
he's not just coming for tea, he
has a very specific and, once again, very
colorful plan.
The atmosphere in the Apple boss's office is
electric. Legend has it that Massa
took out a notebook and
quickly sketched a drawing. He shows Steve a
drawing of a
new kind of hybrid device. an iPod player to which
he had merged a mobile phone. He
explains to her with great
confidence that this is the future and that Apple
absolutely must manufacture this machine.
Steve Jobs, known for his arrogance,
smiled and stopped him immediately. He
uttered a phrase that would change everything. Don't
draw that. I already have my own
plan. At this precise moment, no one on
this planet knows that the iPhone is
in preparation outside of a
very small and ultra-confidential circle
at Apple. Faced with this admission,
Massayoshison's Formula 1-type brain is
working at full speed. He is not asking for a
share in the company, he is
not asking to participate in the design. He
demands only one thing with an audacity
that only he is capable of: the exclusive
rights to sell this future device
for the entire Japanese territory.
Obviously, Steve Jobs is surprised by such a
level of confidence. The product doesn't even exist
publicly, and this
man in his office already wants to
lock down the market of an entire country.
Under pressure and not wanting to end up
burning in his office, he finally
accepted the deal. He gives her his
word. But he points to a problem, and a major one at that
. His company,
Softbank, owns absolutely no
mobile network. He has just obtained
the world exclusive of the century to
sell a revolutionary phone, but
he has no antennas to make them
work. But anyway, now you
know the character, you know that
Massa has more than one trick up his sleeve and
that setting up a new
mobile network on the scale of an
entire country is just a detail, it's far from
insurmountable. Armed with this
simple verbal promise, because yes,
from this interview there are zero
signed contracts, he returns to Japan and
prepares to play Russian roulette
with the objective once again of the
survival of his empire. It is March
2006. He decides to acquire
the Japanese subsidiary of the
British operator Vodafone, a company in dire
straits on the verge of bankruptcy. To
buy it and acquire its antennas,
Masayoshi goes into debt. And not just a little,
for 15 billion dollars. 15
billion borrowed from banks
based on a single intuition and a
simple handshake with Steve Jobs.
That's insane. If Apple fails, if the
future phone is a commercial flop,
Softbank will instantly go bankrupt and
Massa will be ruined for the second time in
his life and probably
permanently this time. But in 2008,
when the iPhone finally arrived in
Japan, exclusively on networks
recently acquired by its group,
it was a huge success and everyone hailed it as a stroke of
genius. You might remember those
images of shoppers ready to camp out in front of
Apple stores? Softbank
benefits directly from this. This enthusiasm finally
allows them to start again on a
sound financial footing, becoming the
undisputed leader of a new digital era.
Massayoshison not only anticipated
the future, he literally took it
hostage by betting billions he did not
possess. He proved to the world
that he was the greatest pariller on
the planet. But for how long? This
addiction to risk, this
almost divine feeling of invincibility, is an
imposture. Very soon, this will
cloud his judgment and precipitate
his downfall.
In June 2010, in front of a crowd of
stunned partners, he took to the
stage to present
his conglomerate's new strategic plan. Softbank
has become sprawling with
absolute domination of the
Japanese internet thanks to Yao in
telecommunications since the acquisition
of Vodafone and this stake in
Alibaba in China which is already worth its weight in gold.
Masoshison is no longer the ruined survivor
of the stock market crash. She is now a
kind of oracle whose slightest
intuitions send shivers down the spines of
Asian markets. What he is presenting that
day is not a training session for 1, 2
or 3 year olds. on his PowerPoint presentation. A
meticulous project planned for the next 300 years
. Facing a giant screen, he talks
about electronic chips
implanted directly into the human brain,
telepathy, cloning, and the
inevitable coexistence between humans
and machines. Obviously, one can imagine
the atmosphere in the room, which oscillates between
a kind of slightly morbid fascination
and a slight unease. Even that is
completely serious. He announces that his
company is preparing for the
singularity, that theoretical moment when
technology will definitively surpass the
human intellectual level. He does not
simply want to witness this
historic shift, he wants to be one of the
actors who will take part in this
revolution. And to meet this challenge, he
needs to invest money, a
lot of money. In July 2016, he took
action. It targets a
top-secret British company, ARM, which is
essential to the functioning of the
modern world. It's a little gem of
microprocessor design. Their
invisible architectures are found
in almost all phones on
the planet. We are at a time when all
eyes are on the United Kingdom for
one simple reason. The country wishes to
leave the European Union permanently
. A month earlier, just
over 51% of English citizens
voted in favor of this. Global financial markets
are completely paralyzed by
this uncertainty. Massa, for his part, feels that this is
the ideal time to make some
good deals. He buys the company
for $32 billion in cash. The
largest acquisition ever made by an
Asian company in the UK. He has just
paid the toll barrier
through which all
global technology will have to pass. The world of
high finance has now seen all of its
megalomania. But this
colossal acquisition was just a
warm-up. The real
financial nightmare for the young founders of
Silicon Valley is about to begin.
Massayoshison is preparing to design a
true weapon of mass destruction,
a tool so monstrous that it will be
able to disrupt the laws of the
markets. In May 2017, he
publicly unveiled the Vision Fund, an
investment fund with $100 billion in assets
. 100 billion. This is unprecedented
in the
technology sector. To raise such a
mountain of liquidity, the Japanese company
formed an alliance with the
world's largest reservoir of petrodollars,
Saudi Arabia's powerful sovereign wealth fund, the PIF. With a single small
signature, Massayoshison raises far
more money than the entire
capital of Silicon Valley combined.
He now possesses absolute power
of life or death over any
promising young start-up. The method the
billionaire is going to use is
terrifying. A strategy of terror
orchestrated in the most
luxurious places on the planet. The
procedure is the same every time. He
summons the young creator of the
new rising star like Uber,
Didi or Slack. He watches him speak
for just a few minutes, then
abruptly cuts him off to regain
control of the conversation and impose
his vision. Hence the name of the fund, Vision
Fund. Each time, he takes out his notebook
and offers to write a huge check,
often several billion dollars,
an amount far exceeding what
any entrepreneur would have
initially asked for. And this is intentional,
since behind the scenes Massa wants to force his
hand through blackmail. He demands that
the start-up take its capital immediately
. If there is a refusal, SoftBank will
invest this small sum in its
direct competitor with the mission of
destroying the company. A somewhat
mafia-like technique applied to the modern world of
start-ups. Softbank is taking all these promising
companies hostage, and the most
promising gems are now under the
total domination of a single man. By
forcing these companies to absorb
such large sums, Massayoshison
artificially inflates all the
world's technology valuations. He creates his own
financial reality. Completely disconnected from the
actual profitability of companies. He
deploys these tens of billions like one would
deploy an army, ensuring that
nothing can escape his control.
But the truth is that this ability
to construct his own reality will
slowly cause him to lose his footing. The great
player is preparing his own
downfall.
The mechanics of the Vision Fund ultimately
backfired on its creator. By
manipulating figures to force
growth, Massa loses sight of the reality
of the companies he buys. The
encounter with Adam Neumann
perfectly illustrates this. The founder of WeWork
built a
shared office rental company. The business model
is a classic and particularly risky real estate arbitrage
. The company
signs very long-term leases,
often for 15 or 20 years, for
entire buildings. She then renovates
her spaces to rent them out by the month
or year to
freelance workers or start-ups. In the event of
low demand,
short-term rental income evaporates, but
long-term rents remain.
Despite this, Adam manages to sell this
concept as a
technological enterprise intended to raise
human consciousness. Yes, yes, it's
almost cult-like. There is an excellent
series called We Crashed that I recommend
if you want to understand a little better
how we got to this point.
Massayoson goes to Wework's headquarters in
New York. His schedule is
so tight that he only has 12
short minutes to spare for visiting the premises.
12 minutes to evaluate a company
that is already losing money. in the back
of his car. On his way back to
the airport, he asked the WeWork boss
to join him. He then hands her a
screen to prepare an agreement and
asks her a specific question. In a
fight, who wins: the madman or the
intelligent man? Neum replies that it's
the madman, but then it tells him that he's not
mad enough. This dialogue will
lead to the signing of one of the
most disastrous agreements in
modern finance. Based on this,
SoftBank signs an initial check for
$4.4 billion. The
Japanese company will then continue
to inject funds, pushing
WeWork's total valuation to 47
billion. This figure has
no economic basis.
Softbank's financial advisors,
Wall Street bankers,
specialist journalists, all are raising the
alarm. The
coworking company is burning through cash at an
insane rate. Adam Neuman buys himself
private jets, registers the trademark in his
own name and then sells it to his own
company for nearly $6 million
. He's not far from being even
crazier than Massayoson, who, for his
part, is in denial. He is convinced he has
found his new Jackma. He
ignores all warnings from his
own board of directors and
even encourages WeWork to spend more
money to grow faster. The
gambler has become a prisoner of his own
method. He is convinced that his willpower is
enough to bend the economic reality
of a company. The trap of easy money
has closed on him. And the worst part is
that this loss of lucidity is
not limited to WeWork. The
speculative frenzy personally grips the
businessman. We are at a time when
the cryptocurrency market is experiencing a
meteoric rise. Obviously, Massa
decides to join the fray. But
instead of anticipating the trend as he
did with mobile internet or
online commerce, he buys in a panic.
He was pressured by those around him to
buy hundreds of millions of
dollars worth of Bitcoin at the exact moment the
currency reached its first
historical peak in December 2017. A few
months later, a huge correction. He
liquidates his positions and sells all his
assets with a net loss estimated at
$130 million. So, this
episode is far from being
anecdotal. It illustrates a flaw.
The man whom the whole world saw as
a strategist, a modern-day Warren Buffett,
now seems to be acting on
impulse. Like a casino player
trying to recoup his losses. The real
shock came in the fall of 2019. Wework
was preparing its IPO and it was
the moment of truth. The moment when
the company must publish its S-1, a
mandatory SEC document, and open
its accounting books to the general
public. The document, several
hundred pages long, reveals a
financial disaster and out-of-
control governance. From an accounting perspective, the
losses amount to nearly $2 billion
for 2018 alone.
Anam Neuman's conflicts of interest
are laid bare. He rented his
own buildings to Wework. He was charged
millions for the use of the word "
yes". He signed personal loans
secured by
company shares. And the stock market's reaction was
immediate.
Public investors are refusing to buy
the shares at the expected valuation.
The operation was urgently cancelled to
avoid public humiliation. And the
fall is heavy, very heavy.
WeWork's valuation collapsed
from $47 billion to less than $8 billion in
just a
few weeks. The company
finds itself on the verge of bankruptcy,
unable to pay the rents for its
buildings around the world. To avoid
a collapse that would destroy the
reputation of his fund, Massa is
forced to spend billions
more to bail out the
company. And even though it sounds crazy, it was
also necessary to pay
severance packages to Adam Neumann to remove him from
his management position. The consequences
of this blow for the Japanese group are
disastrous. At the beginning of 2020, the vision fund
recorded losses amounting to nearly
$18 billion for
the fiscal year. The man who dictated his
rules to Sicone Valet must
publicly admit his error in judgment. The
business model has reached its limits
and the tech oracle has just proven
that he could be wrong.
The difficult period following the
collapse of WeWork looks set to be tough for
the Japanese billionaire. The
global Covid-19 pandemic is hitting the
global economy. This paralyzes many
Vision Fun startups and freezes
global investments. Softbank
finds itself in great financial difficulty
with record quarterly losses
that are causing serious concern in
Asian markets. Analysts are
beginning to write
Masayoshison's financial obituary, convinced
that the player has finally burned his
last trump card and that his method
belongs to the past. Yet, against
all odds,
he still has one card up his sleeve. An
advantage that comes from a seed planted 7
years earlier. The acquisition of the
British chip designer ARM, which
seemed totally oversized when it was
signed in the midst of Brexit, is proving to be
a masterstroke. As the
whole world suddenly turns to the
exponential computing needs
required by the new wave of
generative technology,
ARM's architecture becomes the
essential foundation. of this mutation.
The British company went
public in New York in September 2023.
This operation instantly revived
SoftBank. The subsidiary's valuation is
skyrocketing. This provides the
Japanese group with an unexpected breath of fresh air
and proves once again that
the leader's instinct persisted.
Despite all his escapades and
colossal losses over the
years. Massayoshison's empire narrowly
escapes drowning and
finally seems to be returning to reason. And
for that, you don't need 10,000
solutions. SoftBank is
simply liquidating its historical assets in
order to accumulate enough
cash to wage its final battle. The
legendary stake in Alibaba, which
had built its legend and
fortune decades earlier, is being sold
in successive tranches. The objective of
this massive liquidation is to
concentrate all of its
financial firepower on a single
area:
artificial intelligence. Massa is raising tens of
billions of dollars in
cash to sit down
at the negotiating table one last time. In front of
his shareholders at a
general meeting, he even declared that he had been created
to accomplish this precise moment in
human history. That's all. Well, just
because I said he had
come to his senses doesn't mean he's become
less eccentric. He then abandons
all logic of diversification to
seek perfect alignment with this
new technological revolution which he
imagines is capable of transforming
humans into goldfish. The man who
survived the bursting of the
internet bubble, broke the
telecommunications monopoly in Japan and made
all the companies in
Silicon Valley tremble with his
oversized checks is now gambling with his legacy. Does
Masayos truly hold the key to
our technological future, or is
he stubbornly preparing his
next crack? The future of the
global economy may depend on the outcome
of this final 2D launch. And if you
want to delve deeper into the subject, I invite you
to watch this video.
