Imagine, you are reincarnated 200 years in the
past in the body of a high-ranking official of the
Qing dynasty.  You have a mission: to
administer and develop what
was then the largest empire in the
world and the center of civilization.
And then one day, you see
a small army of 20,000 barbarians arrive.  At
first, you consider them
insignificant, and then they start
destroying your ships, taking over vile
ports, and eventually try to
march on Beijing.  To stop them, the
government sends an army of 50,000
men which is immediately swept aside.
The Westerners will enter the
city, loot it, and then methodically,
following the orders of their general,
burn down the entire summer palace, which
is the residence of the emperor but
above all the heart of
Chinese civilization.  You are on the scene at the time
of the fire and, seeing the ashes
of the palace after the shock and anger,
you are mostly paralyzed by
incomprehension.  You don't understand
how England, this small island at the
other end of the world, was able to
bring an empire of 350
million inhabitants to its knees, nor what happened
in Europe for kingdoms,
once peripheral, to reach this
level of considerable wealth and development
?
You are not the only ones
asking these questions.  China cannot remain in
such a position of weakness, and
the Emperor himself orders you
to study and understand how
Westerners became so wealthy, and
then to devise a 30-year plan
that will enable the Empire to catch up
and become a
leading nation again.  To achieve this, you have
free rein.  You can put in
place any law, start
any war, make any
reforms you want.  The only
condition is that it be
technically feasible.  So, what
action plan do you propose for him?  What are the three
main steps you
start with?  The reason I'm asking you this question
is because it's a situation that
actually happened in China, and
it's a question to which we
now have a very precise answer
since we know in detail the strategy
that allowed an Asian power
in a few decades to catch up with and
even beat some of the
European empires.  This video is therefore intended to be
interactive in the sense that you
can pause whenever you want to
try to formulate an
action plan.  It's extremely difficult,
but in the first half of the video,
you'll get a maximum
of additional information on
the history of European enrichment,
which should perhaps make things easier for you
before you finally discover
the solution.  First, before looking for
explanations, we will go into
detail about the figures of what
happened in the West.
For almost all of
human history, all civilizations have
been trapped in what is known as the
Maltusian trap.  When a region
becomes more productive, for example, through
technological advancements, it
finds itself able to feed more
people.  So the population increases and
as this additional production
is then distributed among more
people, the wealth per capita
decreases and returns to the level it
had before technological progress.
In other words, progress is
constantly being absorbed by
population growth.  This means that in
practice, for most of
history, the average standard of living does
not increase at all.  A
Mesopotamian peasant - 10000 has the same
purchasing power, the same living conditions
as a 15th century peasant in France.
Both spend 80% of their income
on poor quality
and repetitive food.  And the remaining 20%
goes towards clothing or
furnishing the hut that serves as their
home.  At that time,
people literally lived with just enough
to survive.  And
besides, in bad years,
we see a percentage of the population
die simply due to a lack of resources.
When Thomas Maltus describes this phenomenon,
he assumes that
humanity will never escape this trap.  To get
out of this situation, it would be necessary to achieve, over
several generations,
economic growth so significant that it
exceeds even the strongest population increase
.  And at that time
, it was unimaginable.
Moreover, no civilization has ever come
close to escaping it.
Imperial China, the Roman Empire, or the
Athenaean societies, all these
civilizations lived with the same country
per capita and they could have
continued like that for millennia without
anything evolving.  And then
an anomaly appeared on a small continent.
A few small kingdoms began to
grow at such a rate that they
escaped the Maltusian trap.  More than that,
they continued on their path and in 2
centuries increased the average standard of living
of their population by 3000% with
a population that itself increased by an
average of 4 times.  The total amount of
wealth in some countries has therefore increased
tenfold, which beyond the figures has
allowed most citizens
today to have a more
comfortable life than that of a prince of the
time.  this wealth, this
productivity which allowed these nations
to impose their laws in all corners of the
world and in particular in the example of the
opium war which we saw just
before.  The information we need to draw from
these elements is that the mission
given by the emperor was not just
to find out how to have a more
efficient army.  The challenge, if we want to achieve
the objective, is to find a
path to escape the
Maltese trap and enter an era of
great enrichment like the few
European nations we have seen.  An
economic challenge so difficult that it
makes the military aspect of the issue
secondary.  Now, to begin
our investigation, we will examine a
major hypothesis, the thesis of
exploitation of the rest of the world.  The idea
is simple.  What enabled
Europeans to develop so much was
the exploitation of the New World and the
almost free labor made possible by
slavery and colonization.  Thanks to
this, Europeans accumulated
resources that they were able to invest in
armies to conquer even more
land and start a cycle
of enrichment from there.  This is
an explanation that is
generally considered quite quickly because it connects the
two strongest images of that
era: the industrial revolution and
slavery.  Chronologically, it
works pretty well since
colonization and the
transatlantic slave trade began as early as
the 15th century, therefore before the great
enrichment.  And for several
centuries, European colonial expansion
and the rise of
the European economy followed each other very
closely.  But before recommending
that the emperor invade Vietnam or
Tibe, we will go into detail
to fully understand the link between the
two elements.  Firstly, England was initially
neither the largest nor the
oldest of the colonial empires.
The Spanish empire was
considerably
richer and more important before the industrial revolution.  It has
almost all of Central America, a
good part of South America, the
Philippines and trading posts in Africa.
These are vast lands that possess
exceptional resources,
including the largest silver mine on
the planet.  However, between 1500 and 1700,
Spain's GDP per capita increased by only
about 20% in 200 years, which
is barely more or no more than
European countries without colonies.  But above all
, the problem is that precisely
at the time of the industrial revolution,
Spain fell behind and became a
poor country relative to the rest of
Europe.  So, one might think that
Spain is an exception, but no,
Portugal is an even worse
example.  It is a country which around 1700
possessed an immense colonial empire, the
2nd largest in Europe, and which also
played a central role in the
transatlantic slave trade.
Portugal alone transported between 35 and 40%
of all slaves sent to
the Americas.  Relative to the size of the
country, it's colossal.  Logically, one
might therefore expect
Portugal to be one of the
richest countries in Europe.  However, it's the exact
opposite.  This once very powerful country
saw its GDP per capita stagnate and around
1900 it became the poorest country
in Western Europe.  More broadly, on a
national scale, it is very difficult to
find a link between the size of the empire
and economic prosperity.  If we take
the five largest empires of the
time, Spain, Portugal,
Russia, France and the Ottoman Empire,
only one power industrialized
relatively quickly, and that was
France.  And besides, it's not the
fastest.  Conversely, among the countries that are
getting rich the fastest,
Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland,
England or Denmark, half have
no colonies when they
start getting rich and
apparently this does not handicap them that much
.  However, these correlations
certainly do not say that the exploitation
of the New World did not bring in
money.  For example, some of the
greatest fortunes of the time
originated from activities
related to plantations or directly
to the slave trade.  And these are
fortunes and capital that could be
very useful for starting, for
example, a sequence
of industrialization.  However, if we
look at the specific case of
China, adopting an
imperialist policy would be generally
counterproductive.  Even though the
British trade
with the colonies at the height of the Empire
was no more than 10% of GDP and was
often closer to 3%, which is
relatively modest.  Moreover,
and this is the main flaw of the
strategy, these colonies and this
triangular trade require many
things, including a navy and an
army permanently deployed on the other
side of the world, which represents
very significant costs.  More specifically,
the British military budget is 4
% of GDP in peacetime and up to 25
% of GDP in times of war.  And at that
time, wars between
European nations for territories in the
New World occurred almost
every decade.  This means that
overall, as is often the case in these
situations, we end up with
truly gigantic commercial opportunities
for a few privileged people
close to the government we have been talking about.
But for the peasant and
merchant class, which has to pay ever more
taxes to finance the government
and its wars, the calculation is clearly
more unfavorable.  It is this
very significant tax burden that is
often used to explain why
England, which at the beginning of the
20th century had the largest tax base in
history, covering 25%
of the Earth's surface, was going to be
battered economically and militarily
by a country like Germany, which was
a nation 10 times smaller
in terms of area since it had
almost no colonies.  So, let's
see what the Chinese decided to do
next.  But first, we need to
talk about a thesis that you
all surely have in mind, that of the
technological revolution.
The idea is that England's wealth
is the result of a
great European scientific revolution
that led to a
dramatic increase in
agricultural and industrial productivity.  This
revolution would then have continued thanks
to new waves of
successive innovation until we arrived at the
present period.  At first glance, this
explanation is unassailable.  Europe did indeed
experience
a series
of major scientific advances before the industrial revolution, embodied
by Galileo in Italy, Newton in
England, and the
Enlightenment movement in France.  Science is progressing
in all fields.
Western Europe was indeed the
most advanced place on the planet, and all of this
preceded the
industrial revolution by only a short time.  So, we can imagine that this is
the main driving force.  And
yet, I will allow myself
to challenge this hypothesis a little.
First, if technology is so
important, the most scientifically advanced countries
should be at the heart
of this revolution.  However, this is
not always the case.  In the 16th century, the
greatest scientific, cultural
and intellectual center of Europe was
Italy, which was also one
of the richest regions of the
continent at that time.  And yet, from
that point on, Italy would follow an
absolutely unique trajectory.  For
more than 3 centuries, its GDP per capita remained
completely stagnant.  As we have seen
previously, stagnation is normal on a
historical scale, but in this
European context, it is the only country in
this situation.  What makes this moment all the
more astonishing is that it is not due to a lack
of competence.  Italy is dense,
educated, and scientifically very
advanced, yet it will experience
one of the worst economic trajectories
of the modern era.  Therefore, we need to be
more precise, more strategic.  We are not
looking for just any
technology, we want something that
can increase productivity per
capita tenfold.  And for that, there is a
great option: fossil fuels.
With sufficiently
advanced technology, what can be done, and what
England did first,
is to use an engine, more
specifically James Watt's steam engine,
to convert coal into
labor power, a giant force that
can multiply production and
thus multiply the standard of living.
So ultimately, perhaps that's the
big trigger for wealth, the
moment when we learned to use
technology to harness the power
of fossil fuels.  In addition, it's
convenient for us, as China has
enormous coal reserves.  So all
we have to do is copy the
plans for the steam engine and start
a large-scale industrialization.  Besides, it's well
known that you can't have an
industrial revolution with
windmills.  Unfortunately, there is yet another
counter-example, and not just any counter-example, but
the
greatest industrial revolution in
history.  which is done first and
foremost with mills.   At the
beginning of the 19th century, the United States was a
fairly archaic country scientifically.  They don't
use coal, they don't
use James Wat's steam engine
.  No, in the United States, they're having
an industrial revolution with
water.  The country's factories use
watermills installed on
rivers that drive
simple mechanical transmission systems which
operate rudimentary machines.
And contrary to what is
often imagined, this is not simply a phase
of proto-industrialization.  No, until
1900, even though
American industry was already the largest in the
world, watermills remained very
widely used.  Coal, which is
often presented as the central engine
of the industrial revolution, only
began to become widespread in the United States
from the 1870s onwards, which is
extremely late.  It surpassed
firewood in terms of
energy production in 1885 and in fact, it was
almost totally absent from the
first phase of industrialization before
1850 in the USA.  The steam engine will be
used via the Evan model, a
more dangerous and simpler version
of the Wat model which will be
powered by wood for a long time.  So obviously
after 1880, coal would play a
very important role in the USA, but at that
time, the great enrichment had
already begun.  GDP per capita is already
considerably higher than
in other countries and Americans
are well on their way to becoming the
world's leading economic power.
All of this with water.  In fact, according to
more recent analyses, the list of
technologies required to launch a
phase of large-scale enrichment is quite
short.  You need a
non-human energy source that can be used
industrially.  So coal is the
best, but it's not essential.  We
need
basic mechanical transmission systems, metallurgy,
ferronnel, simple machines that can be
coupled with energy and considerable
artisanal know-how.  But that's all
.  With these elements, a
society can already begin its
industrial revolution, with an example to support it.  In
this case,
China already has a very good grasp of all these elements.  So,
theoretically, it has more than enough to
carry out its industrial revolution.
Will she succeed?  That's what we'll
see with his self-reinforcement plan.
I don't know if, after all my
stories, you have given
technology a central place in
your hypothesis.  But in any case, for
the real Chinese administrators
in charge of the reinforcement plan, it was
obvious.  Between 1850 and 1900, we were in the
midst of the second
industrial revolution with
exceptional progress in metallurgy, chemistry,
industrial production, energy
and so on.  The Mandarins are in a
prime position to observe these
developments.  In addition to that, he clearly sees
that Europeans spend their time travelling around
the world to do
maritime trade.  And based on
these observations, for them,
the explanation for Western success is
simple.  Europeans have become wealthy
thanks to international trade and the
highly advanced technical tools they
have developed.  It is on this basis that they
will define the priorities of the
self-reinforcement movement with a
plan that breaks down as follows.  The
absolute priority is to have an army
that technologically approaches the
Western level.  So
European engineers are brought in to
build factories.  We buy
Western weapons in large quantities to
understand how they work and
to equip the army.  We also send
students to Europe.  We translate
engineering and science texts
to become completely self-sufficient on the
issue of military technology.  In
parallel, the government is
also pushing for the installation of
Western systems intended for civil society,
such as modern means of transport
and industrial plants.  They
also understand the importance of
coal, open modern mines, and
import the famous Western steam engines
.  A whole strategy that
is partly financed by a reform
of taxation on exports,
particularly of silk and tea, all while
preserving
Chinese culture.  We keep the same
confused philosophy, we keep the
same political institutions, we keep
the same way of thinking.  The
motto is: Chinese knowledge for
the essence, Western knowledge for
the use.  Basically, we keep the core of
Chinese civilization, which is still
considered superior and very
important, and we simply replace the
tools with European tools.  This
Chinese plan is entirely coherent and
will, in fact, partially fulfill its
objectives.  In 1894, the country managed to
finance a modern army.  It has state-of-the-
art armor
built in Germany,
British cruisers, Western artillery
and, more broadly, high-
performance military equipment.
The same logic applies in civil matters.  The country has
several industrial hubs which are few in
number but technologically up to
Western standards.  So,
regarding its primary objective, which was to
catch up on
military and civilian technological lag, there has been significant
progress.  This means that when a
conflict breaks out between China and
Japan, Western observers
expect a major
Chinese victory.  Unfortunately for
the Middle Kingdom, they will
find themselves at that moment facing the worst
possible adversary: ​​the true
protagonists of this video.
From a military standpoint, the shock is brutal.  Even though
China is fighting three against one
and has, on paper,
more advanced ships, Japan crushes it,
captures several of its
most modern ships and takes control of
Taiwan.  Even more impressively, in
1905, the Land of the Rising Sun
achieved what had previously seemed
unthinkable by defeating the Russian Empire
in a conventional war.  Seeing a
non-European country triumph against a
military giant like Russia
causes a real
intellectual earthquake in the world by challenging
European superiority and
permanently altering Japan's status
on the international stage.  But
beyond these military successes, what
the West does not yet perceive,
and what is in reality much more
important, is that Japan has already
escaped the Maltese trap at that time
and is beginning a cycle of
economic growth comparable to that of the
major Western nations.
Japan owes this absolutely exceptional success
to its own strengthening plan,
initiated in 1868, which transformed
a poor and still largely archaic nation in the space of thirty years into an
international power
capable of competing with the
West not only
militarily but especially
economically.  To fully understand what
such an achievement represents, we
can ask ourselves a simple question.  After
Japan, which is the second non-
Western nation to have truly caught up with
the European powers in terms of
economic development?  If
you don't have an answer, that's normal, there is
no answer.  Finally, if it's
South Korea, but that's almost 100 years
later in totally
different conditions.  It goes without saying that
no nation has ever achieved anything
comparable.  Not even China, which,
despite its military progress and a
generally coherent strategy,
saw its GDP per capita really
take off before the 70s and the famous
DJ Oping.  This Japanese
military and economic achievement is actually based first and foremost
on an
intellectual press.  Some of these scholars
will understand the true
mechanisms of Western success, sometimes
better than Westerners themselves.
So, this is the last chance to
pause and try to formulate
your own plan because after this we're going to get
into the
Japanese development strategy under the army.  An
almost perfect plan and, above all, the
answer to the challenge posed by the emperor in the
introduction.  The
first person to succeed in finding the answer to the
question posed in the introduction, in
understanding what causes the
economic development of a nation, was the
most important Japanese intellectual
of the 19th century, Yukichi
Fukuzawa.
This former samurai will have his young man
passionate about Occitan, learn
Dutch and English, read all the
foreign books he can find,
but above all he will have the opportunity
to go on expeditions to the United States
and Europe, initially as a
translator.  And it was during these travels that he
made several
crucial observations.  Contrary to what one
might think, the technology
he encounters doesn't impress him much
.  Since he is very knowledgeable and the
Japanese are, after all, good
engineers, he quickly understands
the principle of the different machines
he encounters and which he had also already
seen in books.  What
will shock him first is the
social functioning of
Western nations.  He comes from a
company that is extremely
hierarchical.  The emperor, the damiaux,
the samurai, the peasants, the
artisans, all these categories are
very unequal in Japanese society,
especially in terms of prestige and
moral dignity.  And not only that,
since a samurai can kill a merchant
without motive or simply because he gave
an insolent look according to the
official law of the country.  In the United States,
it's not exactly the same thing.  In
a famous anecdote, when Fukuzawa
asked a local where
George Washington's descendants were, the local
replied that he had no
idea.  Which, in Japanese culture,
is an aberration.  It is logical that
the family of the first US president
and hero of the revolution should enjoy a
special status.  For him, it is
almost a moral failing not to
honor the descendants of such a
legend.  Nevertheless, he realizes as he
travels that this
equality is beneficial to
society because it creates
smoother social and commercial relationships and
overall allows everyone to
focus on
improving their living conditions
without any obstacles, which in turn
enriches society.  This observation,
shared by others of his
contemporaries, would become the first
pillar of reforms in Japan under
the ermedji, the destruction of
Japanese social classes.  According to
Fukuzawa's famous saying, heaven created all
men at the same level.  And according to
this new philosophy, a new
social order is created which
notably destroys the status
of the samurai completely.  In itself, it's an
almost insane decision.  We are talking about 2 million
professional soldiers who are being
stripped of all their privileges.  This will
inevitably lead to civil wars.  All titles except Emperor
were abolished in favor of a new,
more egalitarian model based on the
same theoretical criteria as those of
France or the United States at the time,
namely competence and
economic utility.  And this is just the first
step of the plan.  Also during these
travels, another element that strikes him
is the omnipresence of religion.  At
the time, when he traveled across the
United States, every American he
met owned a Bible which they
read carefully.  and that they take
with them when they go on a trip.
So, he is not struck by a
divine revelation, far from it.  He finds
the book's content unbelievable.  But what
will mark him is
the societal impact of this religion and
the immense influence its precepts have
on society.  So, the second step
of the plan is not to change the religion
of the Japanese.  However, he and
his contemporaries wanted to import
Western ideas that they considered essential for
economic development.  The
subtlety is that they disagree
on the ideas that should be
brought forward.  For Fukua, the most important thing
is individual responsibility and
the equal dignity granted to each
individual.  But Fukouawa is not alone,
and for others the most important thing is
scientific reasoning and the
culture of debate.  This is not the
thesis of the following, who considers that
respect for the law and the rule of law is the
priority, and so on and so forth.  And since
these people generally agree on
the basic observation, they will end up
importing a huge part of
Western culture, even things
that can be considered not
necessarily essential.  A
fairly visual example of this phenomenon is the
emperor's change of style.  In a
few years, he went from the
most traditional attire possible to an
almost British princely costume
equipped with a saber that could
belong to the Republican Guard.  And
overall, there is nothing
Japanese left in photos of the Emperor of
Japan.  Sometimes, one can feel a little uneasy
about this image of
the emperor, considering that if
Japan looks like the West and thinks
like the West, then it is no longer
really Japan.  But Fokuwa doesn't
see things that way, and that's
one of his most
important thoughts.  He believes that
Europeans were once like the
Japanese and then discovered
civilization.  They made this discovery
first, but that doesn't mean
these advances belong to them.
It's just the normal evolution of
societies.  All these elements of
Western culture are simply seen
as progress, like the discovery of
the compass or gunpowder, for
example.  progress which therefore makes
sense to take for oneself.  At
the same time, he will work to
redefine what
Japanese identity is.  For him, it's not about
traditional outfits or katanas.   That's
folklore.  No, for him and
his reformist comrades,
Japanese identity is sovereignty.  The fact
that it is the imperial lineage that has
ruled Japan uninterrupted for 2000 years.  As long as Japan is
not feudalized or invaded by a
foreign power, as long as the emperor remains on
the throne for Fukouzawa, it remains
Japan.  And this vision of what
Japanese identity is, it
completely reverses the problem.  Not only does
dressing like
Westerners now, for example, not encroach
on Japanese identity, but above all, it is
precisely this
Western culture that will allow Japan to
become a power and thus retain
its sovereignty and identity.  A
somewhat funny situation that can be
linked to this idea is that
barbarity is hidden in the bun and
civilization is hidden in the short haircut.
From this philosophy, the path of
Westernization becomes completely
clear.  It is even the name of a
public policy that embodies this
Japanese self-reinforcing movement,
boundme Kaïka, the
enlightened civilization.  In practice, this approach
largely relies on schools.
Kouswai himself created his own school
in which he educates a large
part of the nation's future elite.
And this phenomenon is spreading
nationwide, supported by the government
through near-compulsory education.  The
third stage of the plan, closely linked to the
previous one, is a major
transformation of Japanese institutions and
law to align with these new
Western standards.  Once again,
the government will demonstrate
unwavering pragmatism and adopt
elements that it considers to be of very high
quality from each Western nation.
So in practice, the Japanese Constitution of
1888 was very much inspired by the
Constitution of Prussia.  The law
begins with a French basis before
being rewritten on a German basis.
The administration is modeled after
France.  The central bank and
financial systems are inspired by the
English model, and education
is a mix of the German,
French, and American models, depending on the area
in which each nation
excels.  Through all these changes,
Japan acquired, in particular, a law that was
much more protective of
private property, contracts and
economic rules, which allowed for
the first time the existence of a
real market, capital and
credit.  Individuals can now
own, sell, transfer, and invest
without depending on a lord or
social status, making it possible for
modern,
large-scale businesses to emerge.  After that, the 4th step
appears almost natural:
facilitating technological catch-up.
So Japan will bring in
foreign experts, massively translate
scientific books, encourage
innovation, import technologies,
and the final, equally logical step is
to strengthen the army in order to
maintain its sovereignty and
defend its interests.  So, the same idea
as China, with one difference.  In
addition to modernizing machinery and
weapons, Japan will primarily study Western
military doctrines in depth
.  This therefore relates to
strategy, organization,
major state command and so on.
These results will be
immediately apparent in the confrontation with
China, in which Japan will
clearly dominate its adversary thanks
to an organization, strategy, and
command that will be far more
effective.  So, we can still see
that the ultimate goal of the plans is quite
similar.  Indeed, in the end, a
technological and military question arises
.  But
the methods used to achieve these goals are
completely different.  China
decides to keep its culture, which is
a perfectly rational decision
that Japan does not make since it is
the only peak that will consider
Western culture and ideas to be
more important in explaining
economic development than anything
else.  So, one could
argue that even though the
Japanese transformation was very impressive, it
remains a unique case from which no
general rules can be drawn, and that
perhaps there are many other
plans that could have achieved
similar results without making such an
ideological or cultural shift.  And
perhaps indeed we will never have
a definitive answer to this question,
like many historical questions.
However, this link between culture and
economic development extends
far beyond the Japanese context.  We
talked a lot about correlation during the
first part of the video.  Well, there is
one correlation, that between
Protestantism and
economic development, which is so strong that
contemporary intellectuals will
not ask whether
Protestantism allows
economic development, but why it allows it.
In 1900, the richest countries in the
world, the USA, Germany,
England, Switzerland, the Netherlands,
Denmark, were all countries that
were historical strongholds of
Protestantism.  On the contrary,
the inexplicable stagnation of countries like
Spain or Italy is
ultimately explained quite well when we talk about the
cultural context there at the time,
which was that of the Counter-Reformation, a
period which advocated a return to
traditional Catholic doctrines
precisely to push back ideas
linked to Protestantism.  a reaction that
will create an ideological schism in Europe that is
surprisingly well aligned with the cases of
economic development that will
appear right after.  To explain
the stagnation of Russia or
Eastern Europe, the hypothesis of
Protestantism also works very
well since these are countries that will
strongly contain the arrival of this
religion.  We can even find more
precise links.  For example, Switzerland is
generally a small country with an
unfavorable geography and no
particular natural resources.
Yet, it surprisingly managed to
become the richest country in
continental Europe around 1900.  This anomaly is
difficult to explain without taking into
account the fact that it is the
historical heart of Calvinism, the same is true for
the United States.  One might wonder
why in 1913 the country had four times
the population per capita of Mexico,
Brazil, or Latin America.  Well,
we must remember that this is a country
populated at the base largely by
puritanical Calvinists who therefore benefit, and this is still the
case today, from a
culture and an ideology in almost
osmosis with capitalism.  Obviously, it's
not divine will that makes
the followers of this religion, for the
most part, richer.  It was simply
a kind of intellectual vessel that
carried ideas about trade,
private property, investment,
entrepreneurship, innovation,
equality and profit, for example, which
are particularly compatible with
economic development and which,
over several centuries, end up
creating immense wealth.  The real
secret of the Europeans will therefore have been to
create, without really meaning to, a
morality, a spirituality, a culture
which allows and legitimizes the full
exercise of a new
economic system.  Capitalism is remarkably efficient
.  We can see this with
a final example that we have not discussed,
that of France where even though
Protestantism was not the
majority religion, the ideas conveyed by
it profoundly influenced
French society which ultimately
shifted ideologically and reformed its
institutions in a way much more
compatible with
economic development and which became richer as a result
.  So, did you have the
answer?  Like Fukouzawa, would
you have transformed the entire culture
of your country to enable it
to achieve economic development?
What I find amusing about this
thought experiment is that
the main explanation is very
counterintuitive.  Most people
think of
very concrete material, historical, geographical elements
most of the time.  Ideas, culture, and
the moral system are often neglected,
particularly because they are more difficult
to measure or define.  Yet it has had
a greater impact
on economic development than anything else historically
.  There you go, I hope you
enjoyed the video.  Thank you so much.  Until
next time.  Bye bye.
