Most video editors don't realize that
editing trends actually matter. In 2026,
motion graphics in Apple style are the
viral cheat code. And learning that
style to perfection is almost a
guarantee more people will see your
work. So, if you're serious about your
editing career, I'm going to give you
in-depth techniques most people don't
talk about. Since Apple just released
their new products, we're going to use
it for our practice to create a seamless
UI animation. You just need to go
through this tutorial once to understand
how it actually works. Then you're going
to have the tools to build your own
animations from scratch. So, turn on the
focus mode for the next 15 minutes and
let's get straight into it. Once you're
in After Effects, create a new comp. Set
the resolution to 3840 by 2160 for a
crispy 4K. Set the frame rate to 30 and
then duration can be set to 10 seconds.
Then hit okay. By the way guys, quick
interruption. I'm cooking an update for
my products and this is the last time
you can get the three-in-one bundle with
all the current assets. Some of them
will be gone forever. For example, I'm
completely removing version one of
Motion Essence and it's not only that.
But if you get the bundle now, you're
going to get all the assets plus you're
ensuring to get the free future update.
So, make sure to check it out before the
timer hits zero and it's gone. Link in
the description. Now back to the show.
And now we're going to go ahead and
create a background. So, for this I'm
going to go to new, solid, and you want
to rename it to BG. The color doesn't
really matter because we're going to
apply the effect called fill,
and we want to use that effect because
we can easily shift between colors with
the help of keyframes. But first, you
want to change the color to white, then
hit okay, and we're going to go over to
the project panel. So, let's go ahead
and grab iPhone and we're going to drop
it on the timeline. I'm going to
probably scale it down a bit and place
it somewhere here. And then we're going
to proceed to creating the button. So,
in terms of the button, we're going to
need to create a shape. So, for this I'm
going to go over here to the round
rectangle tool, and we're just going to
create a shape over here. Then I'm going
to turn off the stroke and in terms of
the color, we're going to change it to
something blue.
I think this is going to be good enough.
Let's hit okay. And as you can notice,
we got it very sharp on the edges. So,
we want to head over to the roundness
and we're going to set it up to 95.
Also, we can rename the layer for
clarity. This is going to be our frame.
And actually, right off the bat, we can
add the text. So, I'm going to grab the
type tool, and here you want to add
iPhone
17E.
All right, I'm going to re-center and
make sure it's in the middle of our
button. Then we want to change the color
to white, and hit okay. And then also,
I'm going to uncheck constrain
proportions, fix the settings a little
bit over here. Maybe something like that
should do. And then an important thing
we want to do is parent our text to the
button. So, for this, I'm going to go
over to the parent link, and I'm going
to attach it to the frame. So, that way
whenever you move the frame, you're also
going to move the text. So, now we're
going to need an animation for our
button. So, what I'm going to do is
click on this, then go over to round.
This time, I'm going to hit alt shift P
in order to create a keyframe for
position. Then also, I'm going to hit
alt shift R, and also, we're going to
need a keyframe for size. Then we can
move over to the beginning, and we're
going to squeeze it in a little bit.
Probably play around with rotation, and
drop it a little bit lower. So, that's
what you should have. So, now what you
want to do is head over to the comment
section below, and grab the expression I
left for you. Once you've copied the
expression, make sure to hold alt and
click on the stopwatch. That way, you're
going to have an expression window over
here, and I'm going to paste it by
hitting control V. Then you want to do
the same thing with other properties.
So, I'm going to hold alt, click on
this, paste it over here, and we're
going to do it also for rotation. All
right, so that way it's going to get
that bouncy movement. We can definitely
speed it up a little bit. And something
I really like doing to make it, let's
say, more unique is actually changing
the timing for the keyframes. So, if I
place this one over here, and that one,
let's say, here, we're going to achieve
a different look.
In my opinion, it's looking a little bit
better already. So, you can just create
stirs like that. All right, so whenever
we got the movement for the button, we
also need the movement for the iPhone.
So, what I'm going to do is again copy
the expression from here, so we can hit
U,
open it up,
copy, and then I'm going to go over to
the position in our iPhone. Actually,
it's here.
And I'm going to alt-click the
stopwatch. Then let's create a keyframe,
move back, and we're just going to drop
it a little bit lower.
All right, I think this is looking
already pretty cool, so we're going to
leave it like that. And then at around
the time whenever everything's stopping,
we're going to start another movement.
So, what you want to do over here is
again create a keyframe for position.
Then I'm going to hold shift, click S.
We're going to create a keyframe for
scale. And right off the bat, we can
actually add that expression over here
as well.
And we're going to need to turn that
button into a bigger frame. So, what I'm
going to do is create a keyframe for
size, also for position and rotation
this is going to be helpful. Then let's
go ahead and move forward, and we're
just going to start expanding our
button. So, let's do it like that.
Then it's going to be helpful to open up
proportional grid, and we're just going
to push it upwards. And then we're going
to need to set up a keyframe for
rotation. Let's put it to a negative
value. I'm going to probably put it
somewhere in the middle, and then I'm
going to go back to zero.
Okay, so we're going to have something
like that, which is very intense, so we
might want to spread it out a little
bit. I'm also going to play around with
that rotation over here. Just want to
find the sweet spot. All right, I think
this is looking good enough. And then we
also want to fade out the text. So, for
this I'm going to hit T on the keyboard.
I'm going to create a keyframe, move
forward, and let's fade it away by
changing it to 0%. All right, it's not
looking bad. I really like it, to be
honest. But then what I'm going to do is
turn off the proportional grid, and we
want to place iPhone on top of other
layers. So, now in terms of the iPhone,
I'm just going to add rotation keyframe.
Then I'm also going to borrow the
expression. Let's paste it over here.
And then I'm going to move forward, and
we want to place that iPhone over here
on the left-hand side. So, I'm going to
go ahead and do that. Maybe let's make
it bigger. I feel like the frame could
be bigger as well.
Okay, not bad. Then we're going to
decrease the value for rotation. Then
And need to copy that one, and paste it
over here so it goes back to zero.
All right, so this really nice but I
feel like these corners over here, they
are too sharp. So, I'm going to go over
here to the roundness and we're just
going to fix it a bit.
Maybe something like that. And now we're
missing one component which is basically
making UI animations way better and I'm
talking about color change. So, we're
going to set up a keyframe for fill
color over here. So, let's go ahead and
do that. And then at around this time
we're going to apply a different hex
code. You can copy and paste then hit
okay. And that way we're kind of getting
into more of a vibe of that iPhone.
Right, this is starting to look really
really nice. So, now we need to
introduce our icons which I prepared
over here. So, again link in the
description. So, let me just grab these
three. I'm going to drop them on the
timeline and you want to make sure that
the time indicator is at the moment
whenever everything stops. This is going
to be helpful later on. So, what I'm
going to do is select these three then
definitely I'm going to scale them down.
You kind of want to keep it minimal
because if you put the battery like that
it wouldn't really look that great. But
now what you want to do is grab the
arrow. We're going to place it on the
right over here. We can put the arrow on
top and then we're going to take these
two. We're going to place them somewhere
in the middle between the arrow and the
iPhone. So, maybe a bit more towards the
left. And then the battery is going to
go lower. We definitely need to adjust
it a bit. Now, let me just push it
upwards and we're going to need to
create a text. So, for this I'm going to
grab the type tool and here you want to
type in 6.1
and then quotation mark. So, we got the
inches. Then I'm going to place it over
here in a similar distance. Okay, I
think this is looking pretty good. I'm
just going to make sure the order is
right. So, you want to keep it like
that. Then I'm going to probably just
scale it down a bit more. Yeah, looks
pretty cool in the full window. And then
I'm going to add the text from Apple
page which is Super Retina XDR display
and you want to use this color this
time. And also in terms of the font we
want to have something thinner. So, here
I use regular and yeah, I think this is
going to be good enough. I'm just going
to change the paragraph and I'm going to
keep it over here. Then we're going to
duplicate the text, drop it below, right
below the chip. And what we're going to
do with this is paste the text from
Apple, which is four-core GPU with
neural accelerators. We're just going to
change the paragraph. And yeah, this is
going to be good. Then let's copy it one
more time, actually duplicate, drop it
below the battery.
And here we have up to 26 hours of video
playback.
So it's looking pretty cool. I'm just
going to take these three texts and I'm
going to scale them up because we can
barely see what's written there. So now
pay attention because we're going to
need to make some order over here. So
first are the inches, so we're just
going to drop it right above our iPhone.
Then we're going to take the text Super
Retina, drop it above. Then the next
thing is the chips, so we're just going
to drop it here. We're going to need
four-core GPU with neural accelerators
on top of our A19. And as for the last
thing, we're going to take that text and
put it right above the battery. So now
what you want to do is trim these texts
to the position of our icons. And then
we're going to use parent and link. So
I'm going to take the text for our
inches and we're going to parent it over
here. Then we're going to do the same
with accelerators.
And then we're going to attach this one
to the battery. Okay, I think we got it
right. Then we're just going to trim
that layer over here. I forgot about it.
And we're going to need to create
keyframes for position for the icons. So
we're going to select the inches, A19,
and the battery. Then hold Alt Shift P.
That way the keyframes are going to pop
up. We're going to move them forward.
And then we're just going to drop it
lower. So we're going to have something
like that. And also we're going to need
to apply a position keyframe for our
arrow. So let's move it over here. Then
we're going to drag X to the middle.
And we're going to have something like
that. Okay, this is pretty cool, but
also we need to use parent and link one
more time. So for this I'm going to
select arrow, battery, A19, and the
inches. And we're going to parent it to
our frame. So that way whenever our
frame is growing with the bounce
expression, it's also going to be
affected. So, let's go ahead and select
all of that and we're going to place it
over here. Actually, we need to find
these key frames. So, I think around
this time is going to be good.
Okay, looks pretty cool. I'm just going
to take these key frames. I'm going to
expand it a bit.
And then what we're going to do is
borrow the expression. So, I'm going to
hit you for the frame. I'm going to open
up size, copy the expression, and let's
close it down, and I'm going to go over
to our main icons and also the arrow,
and I'm going to hit P. So, here if we
all click this stopwatch, we're going to
be able to paste the expression. So,
let's go ahead and do that.
All right. And that way everything is
going to be nice and bouncy, but we're
not done with this. So, what we want to
do next is offset the timing, so it kind
of goes from the top to the bottom. So,
for this, I'm going to make sure to
select these. I'm going to push it
forward by two frames, and then this is
going to be pushed by four frames.
So, this is already looking way better,
way more bouncy. And remember, guys, we
haven't even added motion blur, so it's
going to look way better. So, now around
the time whenever everything is stops,
which is probably somewhere here, we're
going to add the key frame for scale in
our arrow. So, let's go ahead and do
that. Then I'm going to move forward,
and I'm going to scale it down because
we kind of want to create a pressing
movement. So, we pushed it down, so it
needs to bounce back. So, I'm going to
copy the first key frame, paste it here.
And that way we have that button press.
So, now whenever this happens, we're
going to need to start another movement.
So, what I'm going to do is go over here
with the time indicator, then I'm going
to hit you for the frame, and I'm going
to create a key frame for size. Then
essentially, we're going to travel with
that iPhone to the right-hand side, but
at the same time, that iPhone is going
to disappear, so we're going to trim the
layer, and we're going to introduce our
MacBook. And we look you want to have a
different window, so we're going to
squeeze in the frame, and also we're
going to extend it in the width. So,
first we're going to need to set up some
key frames. So, here we definitely need
a key frame for rotation, then also the
color. Then since this layer has
disappeared, I'm just going to trim it
to this position so it doesn't confuse
us. And then moving on, we got the
iPhone over here, so I'm going to create
a key frame for position. Then we're
going to take all of the icons over here
and also the arrow, and I'm going to
create a key frame for position. So now,
if I move over to the right, we're going
to start creating our movement. So,
something I'll probably start with is
the frame, so let's see how it's going
to look. We're just going to probably in
Y, then expand it in X. This might be
good. We're going to go back a little
bit, and then I'm just going to adjust
rotation to a positive value this time.
Probably went overboard. Now let's copy
first, paste it over here. So, this is
going to be side rotation, which is
cool. And then in terms of the color,
we're going to set it up to white. So,
we're going to do it like that. Let's
hit okay. And now we're also going to
set up a key frame for our fill. That's
why we created it in the beginning, so
we're going to go over to the effect
controls, and here you want to set up a
key frame for color.
Then let's hit U, and over here we want
to change the color to kind of
white/green, so we're just going to
paste that hex code. This is going to be
in the vibe of MacBook Neo, so let's see
if you like that. And then the next step
would be pushing that iPhone to the
right. So, what I'm going to do is take
the position from here, and I'm going to
just push it like that.
Okay, so that's what we have. It feels a
little bit too slow simply because we're
going to swap the iPhone, so we need a
rapid movement so it's more seamless.
So, what you want to do is select all
these key frames, push it back a bit,
maybe just adjust the rotation.
Yeah, this is going to be way better.
And now at the same time we need to
select these three key frames, and we're
going to push our icons to the right,
just like that. And together with these
icons, we're also going to need to push
our arrow, so I'm going to do it like
that. And now we have a problem because
we can still see our icons. So, what
we're going to do is select everything,
then hit U, and I'm going to go over to
the modes. So, here what you want to do
is select all icons and also the text
for them and also the arrow and we're
going to use the track mat. So, I'm
going to parent our track mat to the
frame. That way everything disappeared
but also our frame so we're going to
turn it back on. And now whenever the
icons are beyond the frame, they are
just going to disappear.
All right, so everything seems to be
good. I'm just going to take that iPhone
over here and we're just going to push
it a little bit towards the left like
that.
And now what you want to do is have the
time indicator over here whenever
everything stops and we're going to grab
the MacBook and drop it on the timeline.
Then I'm going to scale it down and we
want to fit it in the right corner just
like that. And now this is important.
We're going to place it right above
iPhone and then we're going to use
parent and link and we're going to
parent it to our iPhone.
So, that way Mac is going to follow the
movement of the iPhone. So, we're just
going to need to place it over here. And
actually what you need to do in the
middle of these two keyframes is trim
our iPhone and start our MacBook. So,
it's just going to swap in the middle.
It's already looking pretty cool. I just
feel like it could be a bit smaller. So,
it's going to be very seamless whenever
we add motion blur which is cool. So,
now we can control our Mac with the
iPhone over here even though it
disappeared. So, if I go over to this
keyframe, I'm actually going to push it
a little bit towards the left.
Okay, I think this is going to be
better. So, now here we're going to need
to add the text which is going to look
like that. MacBook Neo 13 inches and we
want to make sure that it starts around
the time whenever we got the split.
All right. So, now I definitely need to
place it over here.
And then I'm going to hit enter over
here and we're going to add another text
which is going to be A18 and then Pro
Chip. Then we're going to hit enter one
more time and we're going to add new.
And now we're going to need to fix some
settings. I'm going to take the bottom
two lines and I'm going to decrease the
font size.
Something like that should do. Maybe
that middle text should be a bit bigger.
And then in terms of that text, we're
going to select it and we're going to
change the color to this hex code. Then
hit okay, and it looks pretty cool, but
we also need to add an expression over
here. But for this, we're going to need
to create an animator. So, I'm going to
go over here to the properties, click on
animate, position.
>> [music]
>> In the Y value, type in -50, and also
we're going to need to add one more
thing, which is opacity. Where is it?
Here. Then I'm going to change it to 0%
just like that. And then I'm going to go
over to add, selector, and we're going
to pick expression. So, now we want to
open up expression selector one, and
we're going to change it from characters
to words. Then I'm going to open up
amount, and here we have the expression
window. So, now if you head over to the
comment section again, you're going to
find another expression, which is the
second one, and that expression needs to
be pasted here. So, that way the words
are going to nicely drop, but at the
same time we low-key want to have the
movement of the frame. So, I'm just
going to close it down, and then I'm
going to use parent and link, and I'm
going to attach it to the frame. So,
that way that rotation we used here is
going to be also applied to our text.
And then we could do is actually use our
arrow one more time, but this time I'm
going to duplicate it. So, let's hit
control D, then I'm going to hit U, I'm
going to delete everything, but just
make sure to leave that expression over
here. Then we're going to re-center,
then we're going to place it over here,
and we're going to go over to the
rotation, and here you want to set it up
to 180. So, that way we have a back
button, and we're going to probably have
it here. Let's just move forward, then
I'm going to create a keyframe for
position, and then also I'm going to
drag it lower. So, we're going to have
something like that, but we need to
speed it up a bit.
All right, I think we have a finished
animation, and now my favorite part,
which is adding the motion blur. So, I'm
going to go ahead and select it
everywhere, and now let's let it load.
All right, so here you have the final
result. Hopefully you enjoyed the
tutorial, and I'm going to wrap it up
here because my PC is going to explode.
So, yeah, check out the video on the
screen, and I'll see you in the next
one. Cheers, guys.
