So the number one conversation that I
have with developers who are building
agentic systems goes along the lines of
this. Hi, I'm making an agent with Crew
AI or Langchain or Strands agents. Now I
need to get this into production. I need
it to scale. I need it to be secure. And
I say, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold on a
minute. That's what AWS does best. So
hold my mouse and I will show you how.
So here is some agent code. It uses
Strand's agents SDK and it runs just
fine on my machine. To get this running
at scale securely inside of AWS, we can
deploy it using Amazon Bedrock Agent
Core runtime. So, let me just add in the
agent core SDK, create an instance of
the app, then wrap my invocation, and
that's all I need to do to get this code
ready for agent core. Using the agent
core starter kit CLI, I can run
configure, and then I can launch. And
now my agent is built for me into a
container and ready in agent core
runtime. I can test it with the toolkit
CLI like this. And this is just one of
the capabilities of agent core. So agent
core runtime which we just saw is a new
type of serverless compute environment
built specially for AI agents. What's
great is that it can keep your agent up
and running for up to eight hours at a
time with each session getting its own
microVM. So you've got complete session
isolation. And unlike Lambda functions
which are themselves serverless
powerhouses, after you invoke a runtime
session, you can come back to it again
and again and again. You can call it
multiple times while the session is
still active and it works with streaming
data as well. Runtime is awesome. Then
there's memory. It handles your agents
session state. So think conversational
history and long-term storage. So things
like user preferences, memory is fully
managed, customizable, and scales
independently from your agent. So you
can just bolt it in and go. Gateway lets
you turn your existing APIs and Lambda
functions into MCP tools that your
agents can use or someone else's agents
can use. Then there's code interpreter
for secure code execution and the
browser tool for web interactions. Both
of these again are fully managed cloud
hosted services. So you don't need to
build and manage and scale your own
containers. And then there's agent core
identity and agent core observability
which are both specialized services for
identity and observability in the
agentic world. So just a quick note on
how we get access to agent core. Just
like other AWS services, there's a base
API. So for agent core, this is split
between a control plane API and a data
plane API. So think of this as at
configuration time and at runtime. So
these APIs are available via the SDKs
that you know and love. So for example,
Bodto 3 for Python. On top of this,
there's a specialized agent core SDK.
This is a Python SDK with more languages
to follow that builds on the base API
and provides some convenience methods
and functions to make it quick and easy
to integrate agent core into your code.
So an example of this is in the runtime
code that we deployed before. Um we used
this SDK to add a decorator to the
invocation method. That was the SDK. And
then finally, we have the starter
toolkit, a CLI tool that we've been
using to get started quickly. So, it
builds the containers, it helps us test
our agents, it does things like that.
So, as you progress with agent core, you
might depend less and less on the
starter toolkit, but it's a great place
to get started and that's why we're
using it today. All right, let's jump
back into the code and see how we can
update our agent to use agent core
memory. And so this is my updated code
that I've got so that my agent can make
use out of memory. So you'll see here
that we've got the SDK import that we
had before for runtime, but now we've
got a couple in here as well for memory
as you might imagine. And so we've got
two. We've got an integrations that
works with strands config and an
integrations that works with strands
session manager. And so this is
specifically for Strand's agents. And so
if you're using a different kind of
framework such as Langchain or Crew AI,
then you can still completely do this.
Um there are integrations available with
some frameworks. Um and you can also of
course use the SDK directly or the API
directly to be able to build this into
anything that you want. What's happened
here is that the Strands agents
community has worked to build these
integrations in. So we've got sessions
manager and config. Let's go and see
where they're used. Um before we get
there, we've got this which is passed
in. So this is a an ID for the instance
of memory that we're going to connect
to. Now for us in this particular case
that's going to be set up for us by the
starter toolkit. So we'll have a look at
that in just a moment. Um so if we just
scroll down here, I'm just going to skip
over this for now, but I'll be back here
in just a moment. Um let's just go and
have a look at the way that the agents
built up. So here's the agent code. Very
similar to what we had before, but now
we've got this session manager here. And
so the session manager is configured
with the memory configuration there. So
we've got the agent core um memory
session manager object configured with
the memory configuration. So we've got
to have a look at that. Um well here it
is just up above here. Um and there's a
couple of things here that are going
into the configuration so that the agent
can connect to the right part of the
memory which has been um set up for this
type of agent for this agent on my
setup. And so those two things are the
session ID and the actor ID. Of course,
we have the memory ID itself so that we
can connect to the right memory. Then we
have session ID and actor ID. So this
means that when we're connecting with
memory, not only are we connecting to
the right memory, that I guess that's
the memory ID, but we also connect to
the memory which is to do with this
particular user, that's the actor ID,
and then this particular session, that's
the session ID. Um, and that means then
that we can get things like the
short-term memory from this session, but
we can also get long-term memories from
this particular user across all sessions
if that's what we wanted to do. And this
is just a simple example of how to get
set up with memory. Now, the other thing
that you might have noticed is that this
agent is actually contained inside of
this function called get or create
agent. And that's because we've got a
bit of a race condition which happens
here when our agent is invoked. So these
two values, the session ID and the actor
ID, these are only available to us when
our agent gets invoked. But we need to
have the agent in order for it to be
invoked. So how do we deal with that?
Well, if I scroll down to the
invocation, the entry point that we've
set up for agent core, what you'll
notice is that it goes and runs. it goes
and gets the agent from get or create
agent. And we're doing some lazy loading
here. So, if this is the first time it's
been called, then we look at our global
agent variable. That's just one way to
do it. Um, and if that doesn't exist, if
it's none, then we go ahead and create
that agent and then we return it. If we
come back and we're invoking our agent
again within our up to 8 hours of
runtime that's possible with agent core
runtime then if we're coming back again
we go and get the existing agent so we
don't have to make it again we don't
have to connect to memory again all of
those sort of uh computationally
expensive things we don't have to do
again so we're doing our lazy loading
and that's all we need to do and then
the rest of the invocation is pretty
much just like we had before. So, we're
back on the command line now and we're
going to use the starter toolkit to
configure our agent again and then
launch our agent again. And this time,
we'll step through in a little bit more
detail so that we can see what's going
on and we can see where we actually set
up memory. So, I'm going to go ahead and
enter on this. And so, what's happening
here is that the starter toolkit is
stepping us through all the necessary
bits and pieces that we need to get the
agent set up. So, it will create a RO
for us. It will do all the ECR
configuration for us where it's going to
use code build to actually build up our
container and then put it into ECR which
is a container repository for us. So
that's all managed for us in the
background by the starter toolkit. I do
then need to select the dependency file.
So this is our pi project toml file or
it could be a requirements.txt if that's
how you're working. Um and I just need
to go and select the one from my
deployment directory that I set up. So
there it is. That's my PI project toml
file. Um then it's going to ask me about
whether I want to set up some um more
sophisticated authentication using
oorthth which I don't for now. So I'm
going to say no. Do I want to do any
request header allow listing? I don't
for now. So I'm going to say no. Um and
then it's going to move on to the memory
configuration. So it's saying here that
I do ex have an existing memory set up
inside of my account. Um so I have a
couple of options. I can either use that
memory or I can create a new memory or I
can skip if I don't want to. And so the
first time I launched this agent, I
skipped because I wasn't using memory.
This time I'm going to press enter to
create a new memory storage area for my
agent. So let's press enter. And it
says, do you want to enable long-term
memory extraction? So yes, yes, I do.
Um, and that's the configuration setup.
Now, it's important to know that this
configuration step didn't actually
deploy anything. What that's doing is
setting up the configuration files ready
for us to do the deployment using the
launch command. So if I use the agent
core launch command, um then it's going
to go through all of those steps. It's
going to um package up my agent. Um it's
going to use uh code build to actually
build up the container. It's going to
put it into ECR for us and it's going to
put it up into agent core runtime. So
look, the starter toolkit really is very
helpful. And now the launch command has
finished. I'm just going to give it a
couple more minutes just to make sure
that memory has finished its setup and
then we can go ahead and do some test
invocation. So, as we saw briefly
before, we can use the starter toolkit
to invoke our agent from our laptops
even though this is running up in the
cloud. So, I can just send this invoke
command. I'm just going to say hello to
the agent and see how it responds to us.
Now, one thing to note is that with the
agent code that we're using in this
tutorial, in this example, um it doesn't
use a streaming response. Even though
runtime totally can use a streaming
response, it doesn't use it. And so, in
this case, we have to wait for the
entire response before it's going to be
sent back to us. Anyway, that's happened
whilst I've been talking and it's saying
hello and getting back to us and talking
about having a conversation with us. So,
let's go ahead and try and use some of
its capability with its new memory
capability. So, I'm going to paste in a
command here to invoke. Um, and look,
I'm saying here, remember that I
absolutely love hot tea, especially Earl
Gray, and I prefer it with a splash of
milk and one sugar. I'm also sending in
a specific session ID. I do that so I
can just be in control of it here as I'm
invoking it from my command line. And I
also send in an actor ID as well, just
for now of user one, two, three. So,
let's send that into the agent. Um, and
see what it responds to us with. Um, it
will probably just say, "That's very
interesting, isn't it?" because I didn't
actually ask it a specific question. Um,
so it says, "Yeah, I'll remember that
you absolutely love hot tea,
particularly Earl Gray." And then it
talks some more about my preference of
tea. Okay, so I've waited 20 or 30
seconds because it takes just a little
bit of time for a long-term memory to be
sort of realized and persisted. So now
I'm going to come back and I'm going to
talk to my agent again. So let me just
paste in another command here. Now this
time I'm saying what kind of hot drinks
do I like and how do I prefer them to be
prepared. Now in this case I'm sending
in a session ID again but notice at the
end here rather than hyphen A which is
what we had before I've now got hyphen
B. That means that I'm going to be
talking to this agent in a different
session. So this is a different um
container microVM which is being spun up
for me. different runtime environment, a
different session, but I've got the same
actor ID coming in. So, I want to see
here that my agent has retained this
long-term memory. And in effect, this
could be me coming back to the agent the
next day or the day after or in a couple
of weeks time. So, let's just hit enter
on that and see what happens. And the
agent comes back with, "Yeah, based on
our previous conversations, you've
shared that you absolutely love hot tea
with Earl Grey being a particular
favorite." So there we go. The memory
has remembered my user preference and in
this case it's my preference for T.
Integrating code interpreter is easy as
well. Um we could for example switch out
the calculator tool that we've been
using for code interpreter and then
update the agent and now our agent has
access to a secure code execution
environment. Finally, sometimes we just
need to see what's going on inside of
our agent. If you've got Docker running
on your machine, then you can use the
starter toolkit to build and run your
agent core runtime container on your own
machine. When your agent's deployed, you
can use the starter toolkit again and it
gives you the command you need to tail
the logs out of Cloudatch. And when you
want more detail and more detailed
analysis of specifically the agentic
loop and the performance of your agent,
then there's a URL to get to the
observability dashboard for your agent.
Lots of information in there. So there
you have it. We've taken an agent from
running locally on my machine to being
production ready in just a few minutes
with memory and code interpreter and
observability. Of course, there's so
much more. Agent Core gives you a
complete platform for building
enterprisegrade Agentic applications.
All of the code from this video is
available in a blog post over on the AWS
Builder Center. The link is in the
description below, of course, and the
post includes a lot more detail on all
of the steps that I took and exactly
what you need to get started. And if you
use Crew AI or Langchain or Llama Index,
well, maybe give Strand's agents a go.
But if you do use those frameworks, then
I'll add some links in the description
to posts on getting started on those
frameworks with agent core as well. The
best part of all of this is you can just
use the capabilities of agent core that
make sense for your existing or new
project. So bolt in some memory or add
that code interpreter, scale the code
with runtime, use whatever framework you
want, use whatever LLM you want. you do
you and do it on Agent Core and then let
me know what you're doing. Pop in the
comments below. If you've got any
questions, then don't hesitate to reach
out. You can find out how to get in
touch with me in the description below.
If you've enjoyed this video and want to
see more like it, then subscribe to the
AWS Developers YouTube channel and click
on the notification bell so that you
know when a new video is being posted.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll
see you in another video. really soon.
