Welcome to the FCT Global Going Long
podcast. Today I'm pleased to be with
Connor Tesy of Brookfield. Connor is the
president of Brookfield Asset Management
and he's also the head of Brookfield's
renewable power and transition business
and chief executive officer of
Brookfield Renewable Partners. In this
role, he's responsible for investments
operations and the expansion of the
renewable power and transition business.
Connor, thank you so much for joining me
today. Thank you for having me. Pleasure
to be here. Let's get started with just
a little background on you. Can you've
been at Brookfield for quite some time
in a variety of roles? Um you've along
with running Brookfield Renewables have
been president of Brookfield Asset
Management. So just just give us a
little how'd you get here? What's a
what's a little your path? Sure. So uh
I'm Canadian. I grew up in Vancouver. I
did my schooling in in Canada and then I
joined Brookfield 13 years ago. I've
been here a while and I started in
Toronto uh in the private equity group
and one of the great things about
Brookfield and one of the great things
I've enjoyed thus far is I've been able
to work in different offices, different
groups. So started in Toronto in the
private equity group. In 2016, uh, I was
asked to move to London and join the
renewable power business and, uh, made
that switch simply to be a member of a
team we were trying to build out here in
Europe and been here for nine years. The
the roles have changed, but uh, I've
stayed here based uh, based in London.
That's great. That's great. Well, we are
sitting in London and we are sitting
here talking about this on uh the first
week of April um right after tariff gate
liberation day or whatever we want to
call it. Um it's still early days in
terms of how uh the tariffs will evolve
and how policy will evolve. But as you
think about your business, which is
mostly investing in long-term assets
with so much short-term market turmoil,
h how do you how do you how do you
square that circle? How do you balance
those two? Sure. So maybe come at that
from a few different directions. There
are some mega themes around the world.
I'm sure we'll talk more about them
today. Whether it be digitalization of
the global economy, decarbonization of
the global economy, um deglobalization
of the global economy, those trends are
going to continue for years and decades
to come regardless of last week or
yesterday or or or tomorrow's
announcements. to react to the events
of, you know, the last few days or or or
the last week. What impact do we think
it's going to have? The tariff
announcements are a supply shock, but
they're a supply shock like many other
supply shocks we've had around the world
in the last four or five years where it
was disruptions to shipping lines,
whether it was pandemics, etc. and and
generally supply shocks, they will lead
to short-term negative impacts on the
economy, but those are short-term. But
what they do lead to long-term is very
significant investment in resiliency and
redundancy of supply chains around the
world. And that will create a a large
and growing and greater demand for some
of the real assets that long-term
investors seek to invest in. and and
long-term investors right now are really
trying to decide um which of these which
of these things are the the announcement
of the day and which are really
fundamentally changing. So as you think
about um supply chain shifting over
time, I think we we sort of know the
direction of travel there. Um but
companies are uh struggling with where
to put that infrastructure. Um h how do
you think about that? Is it optionality
and being able to do things in different
places? Is it not having all your eggs
in one basket? Is it picking a winner
and just sticking with it? Like h how do
you how do you kind of think this
through in this environment? You you
started with optionality. I I really
liked your your second uh one which I I
I almost describe it as insurance. Um
the the the world went through a period
and obviously this is a gross
oversimplification but the world went
through a multi-deade period of focusing
almost purely on efficiency and uh
efficiency is great. It can lead to the
absolute lowest cost uh production of a
good or service but it doesn't have any
resiliency or redundancy to any sort of
disruption. And when you get those
supply shocks like we've seen over the
last four or five years, let's be clear,
we're not we're not going from one end
of the spectrum to the other end of the
spectrum, but we are simply seeing an
environment where whether it's
governments, whether it's corporates,
they're increasingly looking for a a
greater amount of resiliency in their
supply chains.
And we we actually see this in two
places. There's one more more talked
about than the other. Um, this theme of
onshoring that everyone talks about, the
production of of critical goods and
services at home, that that generates a
a lot of publicity. It requires a lot of
global investment. Um, the the other one
that flies a little bit under the radar
in our minds is um the largest,
greatest, most profitable, fastest
growing corporates around the world. Um
while these are the best companies the
world has to offer, they don't keep tens
or hundreds of billions of dollars lying
around to build some redundancy or
resiliency in a supply chain once in a
generation. And and therefore those
corporates are creating a demand for
long-term investors to provide the
capital to create more resiliency in
those supply chains. That's the other
impact of del globalization that that we
think is not getting as much headlines
as that that overarching onshoring theme
almost the ability to, you know, if you
will, rent versus buy in terms of not
not just being stuck in one place. Rent
versus buy or or, you know, provider
plus one or provider plus two in terms
of alternatives. And it it doesn't need
to be because of geopolitics. It can be
because a ship gets stuck in a canal or
or or uh you know there's a disruption
in a manufacturing facility. We're just
seeing a a global demand for a bit more
resiliency at the expense of a bit of
efficiency and that's different than
what we saw maybe five or 10 years ago.
Right. As you said, the pendulum really
went one way and we learned that lesson
in co and and we're not swinging right
we're not going the other end of the
spectrum. We're just going back towards
the middle a little bit. A little bit.
Great. So, you talked about three mega
trends. One is
deglobalization. Um, one is uh
digitalization. Um, and so maybe we can
come to that one next. And then we'll
come back to decarbonization. But in
terms of your business and the
digitalization or the use of AI, clearly
that is making things more efficient
even if they're more resilient. But how
do you um everybody's trying to figure
out how it's going to really change
their business over the next you know
two, three, five, ten years. How do you
see that here? Yeah. So so I I'll I'll
make two comments there. When we think
of
digitalization and how we view that
opportunity, we very simply view data as
a commodity. Data is the fastest growing
commodity around the world and it needs
to be transported, stored and processed
just like any other other commodity and
the investment in the transportation,
storage and processing of data is a very
large opportunity because the growth in
that commodity is exponential on a level
that we've we've seldom seen. um in
terms of
um the impacts of AI and where we are
seeing it is very simply it is a huge
driver of productivity enhancement and
that is so important in so many places
around the world right now where growth
is stagnating or growth is slowing but
governments do not have the balance
sheets to to invest to support that
growth and that's really creating the
need for two things. One, either
productivity enhancement to drive that
growth improvement or private investment
to fill that void that government
investment is leaving behind. And um we
see both of those things creating
fantastic opportunities for not only the
use of AI within businesses but also
investment opportunities to support the
growth of AI going forward. So some
people have argued that the the growth
in demand for data and the data centers
and so on is overhyped that it is sort
of like the you know telecoms of
whatever it is 20 years ago when
everybody did a cable everywhere. Yeah.
What what do you think you you've talked
about exponential growth is it are we
are we catching up? Is it we going to
use less? We just we just got to build
it. So, so we're we we subscribe to that
theory and I'm going to get the quote
wrong, but people underestimate the
impact things people overestimate the
impact of things in the short term and
they underestimate the impact of things
in the long term. Uh I'm sure I didn't
get that entirely uh quoted perfect, but
um we do view AI as uh very
transformative and while we do not know
the exact path it will take to getting
there, we view AI kind of like the
internet. You know, at the beginning,
people who used it were first movers,
but fast forward 10 or 15 years,
everyone uses it and they don't even
think that they're using it, but it
makes the world more efficient. Um,
everyone uses email, everyone, you know,
interacts on their phone now and we
don't even think about it. We see AI
integrating into businesses, uh,
personal consumption like that over the
next 5, 10, 20 years.
When it comes to the demand for AI, I
think there's I think there's two things
that are unique about AI versus maybe
that example from 25 years ago. Um,
again oversimplifying, but 25 years ago,
the way to win in the internet
revolution was to have better code. And
that meant you needed again
oversimplifying but a few people with a
few computers and some excellent minds
and and you could create a a
marketleading product. The difference
about AI is it requires significant
amount of capital intensive
infrastructure to be used. Uh, you need
data centers. You need the power that
supports those energy consumptive data
centers. You need to reinforce the grids
that move the power to those data
centers. These are investments of tens
hundreds of billions of dollars to
support the growth of of artificial
intelligence. And because of that, one
of the differences between what happened
25 years ago and what happened today
is the growth is being dominated by
market leaders that have that access to
capital to support the build out of that
backbone. So investors like us and and
many of our peers around the world that
are investing in digitalization, we are
not investing on spec. We are only
investing in those hard assets that
support AI when there is a long-term
contracted offtake on the other side.
And and that dynamic is very different
from the one from two and a half decades
ago where it was a capital light
revolution. This is a very capital
intensive resolution and we think that
greatly diminishes the chance of of
overbuild because there always needs to
be a demand provider on the other side.
The the second thing is
again with these technologies that are
going to have an impact in the near term
and a significant impact in the long
term they never grow linearly. It would
be crazy to think that they would. And
you know, over the last six or 12
months, there's been a number of
headlines where people have suggested,
"Oh, is this growth overhyped? Um, was
the forecast too
aggressive?" One of the most important
things is as AI continues to get
developed, it would be very natural for
it to become more efficient, to be
produced in a more cost-effective
manner. And every time that happens, all
it means is AI is going to become
commercial and functional in a greater
amount of use cases. The efficiency in
AI is going to drive greater demand in
AI. We we we see very little chance of
overbuild at this point. Okay, that's
very helpful. The demand is essentially
insatiable at this point because it's
the the capabilities are just
increasing. Yeah. And and and be you're
absolutely right and sorry to cut you
off, but the
the one thing
um without being too pointed on this
fact is there were lots of demand
forecasts for AI that were very very
very robust. Um there still are. Um the
reality
is that was demand was not going to be
the restrictor on this. Supply was going
to be the restrictor. And even if you
were to haircut some of those demand
forecasts quite meaningfully, supply is
still the the demand still outweighs the
supply. The supply demand imbalance is
still in favor of those that can provide
the the necessary inputs to enable the
growth of AI. And until that changes,
which is very tough to see in the short
medium term, um again there there's no
chance of overbuild. Yeah, that's very
helpful. One of my um you you mentioned
that the who knows where AI is going to
lead and I think that's one of the
things we all have to really keep in
mind right now and and one of my
favorite analogies about that is the um
when the elevator was first invented it
was to get you from the ground floor to
the fourth or fifth floor but what it
led to was a city like this right so how
do you get from there what's the what's
the what's the equivalent right yeah so
interesting yeah um okay so that is uh
it is a capital intensive um endeavor.
Um so is decarbonization and renewables.
So let let's talk a little bit about
that. Um you have spent a lot of time on
this and invested a lot of capital in
it. Um you know politically it goes one
way or the other but what are the
long-term trends here in terms of
renewables? Sure.
So sometimes people are taken aback when
we say this. We're we're very fortunate
to be the the managers and custodians of
one of the the largest renewable power
portfolios uh around the world. And
people are shocked when we say
renewables haven't grown exponentially
over the last 5 to seven years because
they're clean. They've grown
exponentially over the last 5 to seven
years because they're cheap. and and
they have grown because technology
advances have made renewables the
cheapest form of bulk electricity
production in almost every major market
uh around the world. And that is true
regardless of ESG sentiment, regardless
of government policy, regardless of
tariffs or subsidy regimes. And it
doesn't matter if it's widget
manufacturing or service provision or
electricity production.
um people will always take as much of
the cheapest alternative before they
they turn to a a a secondary source and
that is what is driving uh the growth of
renewables around today. Now that is
that is not in any way to suggest that
decarbonization hasn't been a meaningful
tailwind. Of course it has. But the
primary driver has been economics and
capitalism a and those tend to not um
adjust so much with with sentiment or or
regulatory change. We we spoke a lot
about digitalization and that that
layered into speaking about
decarbonization. One of the things
that's been very interesting about
electricity production in general is we
went through a period of 20 years where
electricity demand essentially didn't
grow. GDP growth which drives
electricity demand was offset by energy
efficiency and at some point you know
five or six years ago not due to AI but
due to broader electrification of
industry of transport
um of the global economy for the first
time in two decades we began to see a a
long-term runway for electricity demand
growth that was only accelerating
operated and enhanced by this new
incremental driver of AI which is very
very energy consumptive and that is what
is driving the growth of renewables
around the world today. electricity
demand is going up and what is going to
be the largest uh serer of that growing
demand the cheapest option and there is
not a government or region around the
world that wants to deny its its people
or or or its country access to cheap
electricity that is a competitive
advantage on a global scale right now
and when you think of global objectives
of lowcost electricity of energy
security. You don't need to import the
sun. You don't need to import the wind.
A and decarbonization. Renewables are
great because they're kind of that gray
shaded area in the middle of that vin
diagram. So, um we continue to see a
very robust
uh demand picture for renewables for a
very long term uh into the future. Um
and and that's largely being driven by
corporate demand.
Yeah, that it's it's just a better
technology. It's just a better
mousetrap. Yeah, exactly. And and and
not not to go down a rabbit hole here,
but um one of the frustrations spending
a lot of our time in in in power
generation and renewables is people want
to classify renewables as one thing.
It's all renewables. The reality is I if
you focus on the lowest cost, most
mature technologies in our minds
primarily onshore wind, onshore solar,
battery storage, distributed generation,
those are winning on cost and those are
winning on cost today and they're only
going to further cement that position
going forward, which is what's driving
their growth and will continue to drive
their growth. And the and the security
point is a really important one as well.
Yeah. Yeah. because particularly in a
world with um tariffs, geopolitical
problems and so on, uh you don't need to
import an input and and
and there there there's another almost
underappreciated
um driver of renewables.
We should be clear that the the
immediate increase in energy demand is
great for all production types of
energy. It's good for nuclear. It's good
for gas. It's good for renewables. Um
for all the reasons we just said, people
will fill their boots with renewables
before turning to a more expensive
alternative.
Um
but in this environment where there is
growing demand in the short to medium
term, the most valuable thing you could
have is unused generation capacity. And
there are some owners of power
facilities around the world that have it
and they are performing very well today
because that that is very valuable. But
that is a very that has very limited
capacity. The next most valuable thing
is power, incremental generation
capacity that you can bring online
quickly. And the second joy of
renewables is they are not only cheap,
but they can be brought online much
quicker than many of the alternative
forms of power generation. So they win
on cost and they m win on time to
market. Right. You can't build a nuclear
power plant uh quickly. No. and and and
um you know I I would be very confident
you can build a solar farm that's built
3 to 8 feet above the ground. You can
start on four sides and meet in the
middle. Everything ships in a regulation
size shipping container. You can build
that quicker than a gas plant as well.
Yeah. Yeah. Very interesting. Um and so
if you think about, you know, a lot of
the assets that you're investing in,
maybe you can build it fairly quickly,
but they're still they're still
long-term assets. They're they're not um
you know they're not capitalite. They're
they're typically not liquid. Many I
mean some things are but many of them
are not liquid. Um how do you think
about the illlquid assets uh relative to
sort of the the need for a short-term
return? Yes. Uh and particularly in a
time of market turmoil. Yes. uh worries
about liquidity is is it does it just go
in another bucket and it's so illquid
that you know you just don't touch it or
are you worried about any contagion
between the the illquid and liquid sides
of portfolios? So so maybe come at that
two different ways. We we often get the
qu question less so about liquidity but
more so about short-term versus
long-term investment horizons. And
um we really focus on investing in real
assets. And and to be clear that goes
beyond infrastructure or power
generation. This is real estate. This is
manufacturing. This is the production of
critical goods and services. Our
business very simply um is about
producing strong returns while taking
very moderate risk. That is what we live
by every day. And and when we have that
discussion about shortterm versus
long-term often what are people worried
about in the short term? Um let's take
the last few years as an example.
They're worried about inflation. They're
worried about market volatility. um
they're often worried about if there's
an investment trend um can I invest in
enough scale in that trend in a short
period of time to make it worth my
while. By that
definition, real assets have actually
performed exceptionally well in the
short term. Even though they are
long-term assets by nature, they they
are an inflation hedge. um they provide
stability uh in terms of returns that
are uh somewhat insulated by day-to-day
movements in capital markets. Um and
they are tremendously sized uh market
opportunities and that that last point
is the segue to liquidity. Make no
mistake, um, owning a real asset or a
real asset platform I is less liquid
than owning a stock that you can get in
and out of with the click of a button.
But with the rapid
growth
of I'll say institutional investor
demand, but in fact all investor demand
for a growing amount of real assets.
We're seeing that market get um much
much much more liquid. We would suggest
the real asset market is not any more or
less liquid than private markets in
general. Okay. All right. That's
helpful. There's been um a uh as you've
said, there's been more interest in real
assets over the last number of years,
but it hasn't had the kind of growth
that private um equity has, for example.
So, are you um not too concerned that
people are overallocated? because I
think in the private equity market now
there's a lot of concern that
institutional investors are
overallocated. Yeah. In fact, I think
we're seeing the opposite. And not and
not to tie it back to to the question we
we just discussed, but um if anything,
the
last five or six years have really been
an incredible case study in the benefit
of owning private real assets. Uh they
they are critical. They perform um when
GDP is expanding. They also continue to
perform in periods of market contraction
because they are critical in nature. Um
they act as an inflation hedge. Nobody
worried that much about that 10 years
ago. It became a lot more relevant in
the last two three four five years. Um a
and I don't think there is much debate
that um public markets are becoming
increasingly volatile and and that is
certainly uh creating a a great tailwind
for private real assets that perform
exceptionally well. They can provide
those strong returns with moderate risk
over the long term. Um but the they they
perform much more consistently over that
time period and that has a a growing
important in a growing importance sorry
in investors portfolios today. More of a
balance to that portfolio. Absolutely.
And apologies if this wasn't obvious but
um we don't think that's a short-term
reaction to anything. That is a
multi-deade trend. you know from 2000 to
2010 people were just dipping their toe
into investing in real assets in in 2010
to 2020 that growth accelerated now it
is mainstream I think the next leg of it
is it's a growing allocation in
portfolios I is point one and two it
begins those types of investments
increasingly become available to a
greater number of investors historic
torically um I'll I'll
use the example of large private direct
investment in real assets has typically
been for large institutional investors
around the world. Increasingly now we're
seeing it in insurance uh portfolios.
We're we're seeing a growing allocation
from retail investors. We think we are
still in the early innings of that
growth. So if you look forward 5, 10,
15, whatever, you know, whatever,
wherever years, um, how do you think the
market is going to be different? Sounds
a more allocation to real assets, still
quite a bit of private, uh, public sort
of doing their thing. Public's always
going to be there. It's it's very
important. Uh, we think the market needs
a balance of both. We do think a a a
growth in the private markets is
logical. The the the other thing that we
feel very strongly about is the breadth
of investors that will look to invest in
private assets will increase very
dramatically. Again, I'm going to get
the quote wrong, but you know, the
typical portfolio, you do x amount of
stocks and x amount of bonds. Well, that
assumes you can only invest in public
markets. We're increasingly seeing more
and more ways for more investors to
access the private markets. Um it's not
going to be a 6040 split of only
publiclix. It will be a split between
publics and privates for for all
investors. Great. Um and as you look
forward, um you know, maybe you've
talked about many of them already, but
you are a long-term investor. You do
look at these trends over long periods
of time. you know, is there something
that we're not seeing besides, you know,
what happens in the next, you know, is
it demographics, for example, are always
very hard to invest in? They always
sneak up on people. Um, you know, the
the private credit market has been very
different over the last 10 years, say,
than than the prior um and could be very
different again. Are there uh you know,
if you're if you're sort of predicting
what what's going to be interesting over
the next few years, what do you think?
Yeah. Can can I give you a trend that
that's happening within our portfolio
that we find incredibly interesting, a
little bit counterintuitive, and we
don't see it slowing down, which is I
don't have a specific stat to back this
up, but maybe from the period uh 7 years
ago to 10 years ago, our business was
primarily a buyout business. You know,
we would buy 100% of a business. we
would look to operate that business
better over the life of the investment
and then seek to sell it. Over the last
four or five years, a growing amount of
our investment has been in
partnerships, but in partnerships with
leading corporates and institutions
around the world. These are these are
the largest, most profitable, fastest
growing companies around the world that
have tremendous access to public capital
and yet they are still choosing to
partner with private capital to to fund
the growth and opportunities within
their platform. A and it's not across
any specific asset class.
Um, we helped Intel uh we supported uh
half the buildout of one of their
semiconductor facilities in the United
States. That was 16 billion dollars. Our
our half. Intel has lots of access to
capital, but still they chose to partner
with private capital. Um, we have a
clean energy partnership with Microsoft,
debatably the greatest corporate in the
entire world, and yet they're still
looking to partner with private capital
to build out the supply chain to to
support the growth opportunities in
front of them. Uh, we we've done large
uh partnership transactions with
Deutsche Telecom. We continue just to
see a long pipeline of these
opportunities of partnering with
incredible businesses around the world
that have great access to capital but
are still choosing to partner with
private capital to capture the growth
opportunities ahead. That's been
happening within our business for three,
four, five years. We only see it
accelerating going forward. Yeah. And
that makes sense because these great
companies have certain skills. um their
technology companies or telecom
companies or whatever they are. Uh so
it's it's probably is it a it may not
just be the capital, right? It's it's
the expertise. You nailed it. It you're
absolutely right. It's it's not just
it's two things. One, it is not just the
capital. It's having not just a capital
provider but also an operating partner
um in capturing the these objectives and
in building out these initiatives.
The the other thing, and this ties back
to some of the huge themes we talked
about
earlier, we don't mean to say this
flippantly, but these trends of
deglobalization, decarbonization,
digitalization, nobody disputes them.
But the scale of these trends and the
capital requirements to capture the
growth opportunities in these trends are
so significant that quite frankly they
outstrip what is available from
governments and they outstrip what is
available from the public markets and
and that is creating a very large and
attractive opportunity for for private
capital. So, some of it is the capital,
but you're absolutely right. It's the
operating expertise and the the ability
to be an operating partner as well as a
c capital provider, right? It's not just
the money. Yeah. Well, thank you so much
for uh your insights. I think that this
your business is one of the ones that is
sort of it classically typifies the
short-term long-term trade-off because
you've got um you know such long-term
assets in some ways um an ability to
focus on on those things. Obviously, we
very much appreciate you're being part
of focusing cap on the long term and you
can see why here. Um, but I really
appreciate your insights and your your
time and um and ability to to try to to
try to look beyond, you know, today's
headlines to what's really what's really
going on. So, thank you. Well, thank you
for having us. It was great to be here.
Great.
