[Music]
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, we say goodbye to tired market
takes and superficial sound bites.
Because here, instead of skimming the
surface, we dive into the heart of
capital allocation, striking the perfect
balance and exposing the subtleties that
reveal the topic's true essence. Prepare
to have your perspectives challenged as
we open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. We've enlisted the
wisdom of visionary leaders in the
industry. And just like a meticulously
crafted wine, we'll allow their insights
to breathe, unfurling their hidden
depths and transforming our
understanding.
This is season 2, episode 8 of Capital
Decanted, the future of asset
management. I'm John Bowman and I'll be
your sole host today. First of all, a
huge thank you as always to our
returning title sponsor, Alternatives by
Franklin Templeton. We are so grateful,
as we say every episode, that they're
back to partner with us. They've got
over 40 years of alt investing
experience, over 260 billion of AUMUM,
and their specialist investment managers
now cross six different asset classes,
real estate, private equity, private
credit, hedge strategies, venture
capital, and digital assets. And of
course, all of them operate with the
client first mentality that has always
define Franklin Templeton to help
prioritize investment outcomes. So,
thanks again, Alternatives by FT. Well,
listeners, we have a special episode
today. As longtime devoted versions of
all of you will know, we typically break
down the history and complexity of a
topic and then we'll invite a guest or
two usually in to break down that topic
further. Well, today, like we've done on
a couple of other rare occasions, we're
just going to have a one-on-one
conversation. And this is for good
reason that we are switching things up.
Because with the tectonic plates in
trade and geopolitics and economics and
national security seeming to shift under
our feet in what seems like real time, I
thought it was opportune and maybe even
imperative for us to step back to talk
about some of the major themes defining
the future of the industry, but through
the lens of what's happening all around
us in real time. And as many of you know
in our larger circle of the Kaya
community, we've been conducting seauite
roundts around the world this year in
2025 to help inform and shape our
long-term organizational strategy, which
I'm calling vision 2035. And those
conversations, just like the one I'm
sure you're about to hear, have taken on
a more sobering, urgent, dramatic turn
in recent weeks and months, as the
phrase regime change and structural
inflection point and phrases like that
keep coming up in our conversation. Is
it could it actually be different this
time? That is a taboo phrase, but once
in a while it is actually different this
time. So today, I want us to link that
uncertain temporal chaos, you might call
it, with future themes and trends that
we should be watching. And there is no
better guest to do this with me than
Kevin Quirk. Kevin is global head of
investor relations for Bane Capital. And
we're going to talk a little bit about
this exciting new role at the iconic
Boston firm. But candidly, Bane is not
actually why I invited Kevin in for this
special episode. Because Kevin's story
really starts with his mentor all the
way back in the mid70s, a gentleman by
the name of John Casey. He is a legend
in our ecosystem whose fingerprints I
promise you are ubiquitous across the
entire industry. So just to paint the
picture of John's influence, a regular
joke that I've come across over the
years on John Casey goes something like
this. So this American is part of a huge
crowd in in St. Peter's Square in Rome.
And he could barely make out the two
figures that suddenly walk out and make
an appearance on the balcony of the
famous Basilica, St. Peter's Church. And
so the American turns as he's squinting
up into the sunlit and sunblocked
balcony to this Italian youth next to
him and he says, "Is that the Pope up
there?" And the youth responds, "I don't
know if that's the Pope, mister, but
that is John Casey with him." So that is
in a nutshell obviously with satire
thrown in who John Casey is and his
iconic state and understanding and
profile within the industry. John Casey
founded Rogers Casey in the mid70s that
became one of the most prominent pension
consultants in the world before its
acquisition by Bar 20 years later in
1996. And it was at bar
postacquisition working with a young
Kevin Quirk that he had hired in which
this seedling of an idea to parlay that
experience advising asset owners into
advising asset managers began to
germinate and sprout and blossom. So in
2002, Kevin and his mentor and superior
at Barra launched Casey Quirk, an
investment management and strategy
consultancy that add its zenith advised
more than 3/4 of the top 25 asset
managers in the world. Casey retired in
2015, formerly handing off the reigns of
Casey Quirk to Kevin. Sadly, John passed
away in 2020 and then 2016 in between
Deote acquired Casey Quirk. But for two
decades, for most of us practitioners,
Casey Quirk was the author of the most
sought-after thought leadership in the
industry. They were the authoritative
state of the profession. And I would say
for you younger entrance into the
industry, particularly after regulatory
changes, most notably REG FD in 2000,
and then huge trading fee compression
that forced the sell side to abandon
lots of the broader thematic research
that many of us were accustomed to in
the '90s because they simply couldn't
justify the cost of that research with
associated trading revenues. So the
sellside exited this thematic long-term
thought leadership business and Casey
Quirk filled the gap. They became this
rare and valuable jewel for long-term
thinking on the asset management
business. I first met Kevin before the
Deote acquisition perhaps around 2014 as
we were both part of this institutional
investor membership forum for CEOs and
at these annual gettogethers Kevin would
often have this standing segment on the
latest trends in the industry for the
global leaders in the room which
honestly besides the networking was
always the highlight for me and I think
most of the CEOs in the room too. So, as
the world seems to be facing
unprecedented challenges and
uncertainty, Kevin was my very first
call to help us think through where we
are and where we're going. So, I am
delighted to welcome into studio Kevin
Quirk. Stay tuned and he'll be here with
[Music]
us. Well, welcome back to this episode
of Capital. And I'm just delighted to
have in studio my old friend and the
global head of investor relations for
Bane Capital, co-founder of Casey Quirk,
as we'll talk about at length here,
Kevin Quirk, welcome to Capital
Decanted. Thanks, John. Great to be
here. Well, this episode is timely.
Perhaps Kevin, even when we thought of
the idea, more timely than we would ever
have, I don't know about hoped for,
perhaps dreaded, because much of the
foundation of what has defined asset
management for I would say the last four
decades, most of you are in my career,
perhaps even first principles of what
the global order seemed to have been
constructed on the apparatus that has
built up most of our careers is under I
would say full scrutiny, full review,
and it's impossible to the fundamental
al shifts in philosophy and worldview
that we're seeing around us. And today,
we're going to try through lots of
gymnastics and discipline to somehow
connect some of this temporal chaos with
the long-term trends that you and Casey
Quirk have been synonymous with for
three decades. So, we'll certainly talk
about the current, but we're going to
try to again look through that lens of
the current storm to what might be
happening 10, 20 years from now, which
is again what I've always found so
unique and helpful from you, Kevin. So,
I look forward to this. The listeners
had the benefit of a very quick brief
overview of the trajectory of your
career and Casey Quirk and what you guys
did. And I'd love to start, if you don't
mind, with maybe your interview. I think
it was 1995, but you have talked
publicly about your first introduction
to John Casey and who sadly we lost in
2020. But tell us a little bit about
that conversation and how it literally
changed the course of your career. For
sure. He was an amazing person. It was
1995 and John at the time was the CEO
ran Rogers Casey which was the I believe
the third investment consulting firm
that he had really been involved in
founding and really reinforced the fact
that this guy was an incredible
visionary when it came to the
investments industry and certainly a
person who should take a lot of credit
for what the modern investment
consulting industry looks like. But that
first interview with John in 1995, I was
in my second year of business school and
I had had interviews with the then
Rogers Casey franchise to potentially
join them in a nent management
consulting business that they were
working on to not advise the
institutional investors of assets but
rather the investment managers
themselves. And John was effectively my
final interview in the process and it
was a fascinating conversation and it
turned into a very lucrative
relationship for both of us over the
long term. But he told me what he was
thinking about and what he was doing and
it became clear that he knew everybody
in the industry. This was a guy who knew
everyone around the world. He was very
well regarded and he had found himself
in a position where the asset managers
were coming to him for advice because
there was really no one at the time that
was in the business in a formal way of
advising asset management firms
certainly in a meaningful way. So, John
talked to me about this Nason effort.
And of course, I was about to be coming
out of grad school deeply in debt and
looking at all these large companies
that I could potentially join. And John
offered this very out of the box idea to
me to help him start working on this
effort with a number of people that he
was working with at the time, although I
was probably the only one that had real
management consulting experience. So
anyway, that was the first conversation
with John and in the end I decided to it
felt like at the time take a little bit
of a flyer relative to the other things
I was thinking about at the time. But
that's how it all started. Yeah. Well,
you talk about measured risk that worked
out well. Taking a flyer that was the
right flyer to pursue. I will tell you
there were some days, John, when it
didn't necessarily seem like it was the
right flyer to take, but we got through
it. Well, it's never a straight line.
It's never as romantic as it sounds. 30
years in retrospect nonetheless, but
clearly a good move. We're going to talk
a little bit about I don't know if you'd
frame it as your second, your third,
your fourth career at Bane in just a
moment, which is very exciting. But as
you think about those 25ish years with
John and then you moving in eventually
to the leadership role upon his
retirement 10 or so years ago, what do
you miss most about that building stage
and that consulting stage that unique
insight that John had very early that
you obviously adopted and shared and
parlayed into this great practice for so
long? I would say first I'm extremely
proud of what we built over that call it
25 plus year period and probably the
thing I'm most proud about is the people
that got involved in the business and
we're so committed to the growth of the
business and by the way continue to this
day being committed to that business as
part of deote so on a day-to-day basis
the thing that I miss the most is the
people I really feel like this group of
partners and senior people that we put
together over time really became the
standard bearer for what we did in the
industry. I certainly miss the people. I
think the journey, as you said, along
the way, there are parts of it that I
look back and I reminisce about and I
think, God, those were really great,
interesting days. I'm not sure I could
do it again, to be honest with you. And
I think part of it was youthful naivity
going into what we were going into, but
it was incredibly exciting. I worked
with some great people. John was a
wonderful partner to that next
generation of people. You know, in the
early days, it was people like Chris
Aceto and David Bower and Jeb Dogget who
were the early founders of Casey Quirk.
And John was a very much an adviser and
a relationship person, but he let us run
the business. He let us grow the
business. And I think that's what a lot
of us, we of course had to evolve into
adviserss ourselves, but we really
enjoyed the business building, the
concept of wanting to build something
big, something important, something that
could really have impact in the
industry. We really, I think, prided
ourselves on our thought leadership and
our forward-looking views. We prided
ourselves on our focus on the investors
and our clients clients and really
trying to define what they needed and
they wanted and what was right for them
for the future. And that was always I
think central to the advice that we
brought to our clients and I think that
was that purposeful approach to strategy
within the industry was something that
really served us very well. I don't know
that I say I miss that. I think that I
look back on it with a tremendous amount
of fondness and I see it as part of the
journey along the way. I think as I look
I fast forward to where the firm is
today. It's as part of Deote. I look at
it as it's in that next generation's
hands. But it's also in a place where it
has to evolve further in order to
continue to be relevant and important to
the clients and in an industry that has
changed so dramatically since we began.
I mean, if you really look back in the
mid 1990s, this was an industry that was
growing strong double digits. It had an
amazing tailwind behind it. The
alternatives part of the industry barely
even existed. And a lot of these
businesses were basically cottage
businesses. They didn't have formal
leadership. They had grown far beyond
what anyone probably imagined they would
have grown to at that point. And they
were about to grow to levels unthought
of. We really were very lucky in one way
that our timing was very, very good. We
caught that beginning of the hockey
stick for the industry and obviously
it's evolved tremendously since then.
You think of the phases that the
industry has gone through from that
point through the dotcom bubble bursting
and then the runup of markets again and
of course the global financial crisis I
think really changed the industry
permanently. That was where we had the
great reckoning. There's just so much
that's happened in the industry along
the way. So when you think about where
we are today, I probably spend less time
thinking backward and thinking more
about what do you have to do to remain
relevant going forward. Well, well, I
think that last point is just a perfect
summary of what made Casey Cork great.
Cuz selfishly, by the way, you may not
miss it. I miss you guys. And speaking
on behalf of the industry, there is a
gap that you've left. I told the story
in the intro that I think you and I met
maybe 11 years ago because I just
returned from London and we both found
ourselves as part of this institutional
investor CEO roundt you might recall and
you were this standing segment if you
will at each of these annual
gettogethers gatherings of leaders of
the largest asset management firms in
the world coming together to talk in a
safe zone and you gave the state of the
union and that's I think the beauty of
what KC Quirk was is that when a lot
that research from the cell side and
other thought leadership bodies had
largely drifted or gone away or become
obsolete. You were to use your word the
standard bearer of what we relied on. So
just again from all of us in the
industry you served us very well and you
should feel very proud about your time
there. I want to give you just a moment
to talk about your role at Bane which I
think is fascinating. It's a brand new
role. It's a brand new practice in some
sense for Bane as you and I have talked
about. So you went from serving some of
the largest asset managers in the world,
being somewhat of a clearing house for
all these voices and intelligence to
working for just one. So tell us a
little bit of how that came about and
what you're doing now. Well, it's
interesting. I remained part of Casey
Quirk 8 years into my time at Deote and
frankly I was very happy doing what I
was doing. The Deote folks really took
very good care of us and our business
and continue to. My plan was to continue
doing the work that I was doing there.
And this opportunity really came a
little bit out of the blue. It was a
fantastic opportunity for so many
different reasons. I mean, for me to
leave what I was doing, especially at
this point in my career, would take a
truly extraordinary opportunity at an
extraordinary firm. I've obviously known
Bane for a very long time. We were
involved in some of the business
building efforts that went on in
different parts of the business over our
time at Casey Quirk and I just had
tremendous amount of respect for the
firm. The way they conduct themselves,
the principles, the focus and the
objectives of the organization have
remained so strong and true for so long.
So I start from that point which is just
an enormous amount of respect for the
organization. And then the fact that as
you said there was not a full-time head
of IR investor relations for the firm
which for Bane means responsibility for
capital raising and taking care of our
clients all over the world across all of
our investment platforms. The decision
was made 2 or 3 years ago to create a
formal dedicated role for the
organization. I was candidly I was just
in the right place at the right time.
There seemed to be a good fit from
Bane's perspective. I was certainly very
very excited about it because it was an
opportunity for me to put all the
thinking and work that I had done for
decades into practice. As you know,
John, the vast majority of the work that
I did during my time at Casey Quirk was
focused on growth strategies really. How
do you think about growing a firm? And
that can really span every element of
the firm. Everything from the investment
capabilities and products all the way
through sales and client management. I
spent a lot of time across all these
capabilities, but naturally a very big
part of it was around capital raising
and the taking care of clients part in
that organization. And at Bane, this is
an effort that has been here obviously
for a long time, but its growth in the
last couple of years has been dramatic.
There's been a lot of investment in the
investor relations area as the firm has
grown and especially as the firm has
broadened the capabilities that we have
from an investments perspective and
there are a number of capabilities
within the firm that have I think a lot
of runway left in terms of how they will
grow their businesses. So from my
perspective, both from an investment
standpoint and from an investor
relations standpoint, there was a lot of
opportunity to grow and build something.
And that's something that I really loved
and enjoyed my entire career. And then
the other part of it, of course, is the
people. As I said, in order to leave the
great people at Casey Quirk behind, I
would definitely have to be joining an
organization with great people. And this
is an organization full of great people.
I've been here a little less than a year
and I can tell you that it's as
advertised. It's an incredibly strong
group of people that I work with here.
Incredibly collaborative, incredibly
proud, very smart. It's been an absolute
pleasure to be part of the group so far.
Well, I'm happy for you. It sounds like
an exciting challenge. I can see the
bounce in your step even though you're
sitting figuratively speaking. So good
to see you rejuvenated and enthused. As
a further setup to today and how we
think about moving forward, let's just
talk a little bit about how we got here,
Kevin, because you made a soft
reference, you made an illusion to when
you first started, you were, in my
words, effectively consulting with 60/40
portfolios or 6040 flavors of asset
management strategies. Can we talk a
little bit about given you were sitting
in the poll position to see this kind of
blossom the history of private capital?
What was the original insight or
problems it was trying to solve? Jobs to
be done if you will that led to this
explosion in private capital. There are
probably better people to answer that
question than me, but I'll do my best in
terms of formation in the foundation
because I've talked to a number of true
founders of the industry along the way
when I've been doing my work. If you
think about the industry broadly, this
has often been a supply driven industry.
So a lot of the innovation and a lot of
the things that people do from an
investment standpoint, it comes from the
supply side. It's really pushed out to
the market. And I think when you go back
to the real modern beginnings of the
private capital business, some of it was
driven at least by the idea that the
investment banks or the investment
bankers were looking for better
alignment for themselves to build good
companies. They were many of them and
were transactors, right? They were
brokering transactions between
companies. But I think the innovation
that happened in private equity
especially was the concept of alignment
and the idea that you would invest in a
company and then find a way to make
money if you created value for that
company not simply for transacting on
that company. I think that's the
original kind of incarnation of the
business and of course there were
businesses that needed fixing. there are
businesses that they looked at it and
said, "Gee, we can do something with
this business and if we own the
business, that might be a better way for
us to align ourselves with fixing that
business." So, I think that was probably
as big a driver as any in the creation
of the business. But over time, I think
if you go past the incarnation of the
private business, I think then the
evolution of the business started to
change. And if especially if you get to
the global financial crisis and you
start to think about capital formation
and what corporations and companies need
to finance themselves, especially
because of regulation, there was an
opportunity to finance companies in a
different way, namely to finance them in
a private version as opposed to in a
public version. And I think really since
then what's happened is the massive
growth of the private markets ecosystem.
So the capital markets that exist today
and the ecosystem in the private markets
that exist today is just so much more
developed than what we saw even 15 or 20
years ago. I think now what you see is
an alternative financing mechanism
that's become a much bigger part of our
overall capital markets which is also
why we see it being a much bigger part
of investors portfolios. That's I think
the beginning to where we are today in a
thumbnail, a quick version of how we got
to where we are today. Yeah, I like how
you put that with the first incarnation
because I've often articulated as the
70s and 80s corporate raider high yield
was
industrialized. Much of those
characters, those icons that we've read
about, maybe even watched Hollywood
films about started their own firms.
That diaspora started basically the most
of the modern private equity and private
credit firms. That is starting to hand
off to the next generation. more
alignment, more professionalism is
happening to create this next
incarnation. So as you think about the
last 10 years post GFC when this really
exploded, this new financing
opportunity, regulation was starting to
maybe inhibit traditional forms of
finance, the not going public, staying
public longer. I'm not want to lead the
witness here, but what were those
supercharging themes that maybe took it
from an industrialized alignment for the
founders to something that was a key
part of the pie for all portfolios?
There's a number of factors. I think
that as you mentioned and we've just
talked about regulation I think ended up
especially in the GFC becoming a pretty
important factor for fueling the private
financing mechanisms or the private
finance ecosystem that has evolved from
there. So that's a big driver. I think
that you also saw demand from the
investor side. So investors, the most
sophisticated investors hadn't been
involved in private capital for a number
of years, really some of them for
decades at that point. So I think that
familiarity and experience in the
private markets, especially from a
returns perspective, was another major
driver. So demand started to really
build for private markets. So you've got
that capital market system evolving and
then you've got demand to invest in it
evolving at the same time. So those are
two things that are certainly
turbocharging it. I said before that the
system is very supply driven. I think
coinciding with that you saw the
emergence of some pretty powerful and I
mean that in an economic term powerful
firms who became much bigger and more
powerful and the ability of those firms
to start to do different things. When I
say that, I mean the big private
capital/ternatives organizations became
economic powerhouses in their own right.
And they really began to think about how
do they evolve their business? What more
can they do to serve their investors in
a better way? How can they build more
stable, durable businesses over the long
term? And so you saw a big evolution
happen there as well. So I think there's
some confluence of those factors and
probably some others that we aren't
thinking about right now. But those were
some of the bigger drivers I think that
really supercharged the industry. So I
think that brings us to today with some
nice background and Kevin honestly if we
had had this conversation maybe even 3
months ago. I think this answer perhaps
the way I posed the question would have
been fundamentally different because
beyond the cyclical realities of what
we're all aware of. You're sitting now
in a Bane chair as you described. The
system's a bit clogged up. Fundraising
is slower. There's a lot of dry powder.
Distributions have been slow to
non-existent depending on the segment.
So there were cyclical headwinds
already. And now you're throwing in
these massive structural questions of
geopolitical chaos, questions of regime
change, of is US exceptionalism and the
reserve currency at risk, trade wars and
how is that going to play out that
drives I think pursuit of certainty or
at least the perception of more
certainty, the perception of more
liquidity, the perception of more
flexibility, right? So, how do you think
all of this, and I realize this is a
very tough question with a long preface.
How do you think the next 5 to 10 years
play out given that you've got now both
cyclical and structural worries,
anxieties that are new to this somewhat
still, I would say, teenager adolescent
business that is still coming into its
own. As you said, had we had this
conversation even 3 months ago or 6
months ago, we might have had a little
bit of a different answer. Although I
don't think
fundamentally the answer is necessarily
that different. I think that the
environment that we're living in right
now, which is I would say it does feel
chaotic at times and and it certainly
feels there's some uncertainty in the
sense that you don't know what's going
to happen from day to day. I still think
that the industry itself is actually
relatively well positioned. I think that
when you think about the private slash
alts industry, it's one where you
actually have a fair bit of flexibility
in what you do. So when you look at the
portfolios that were managed, when you
look at the companies that were managing
in the privates business, you're in the
business for the long term, right? It
goes back a little bit to that
innovation and that alignment we talked
about that that started the industry. So
from that perspective, I think that
sophisticated investors and the GPS
firms that are managing these companies
actually are quite flexible. And so I
think when I look at our own firm, when
I look at some of our peers, I think
they're evaluating the environment that
we're living through right now and doing
it on a company by company basis,
thinking about what some of the
implications are going to be with
regards to any number of things, whether
it be tariffs, whether it be regional
shifts, whether it be financing and
interest rate changes, and really
evaluating what does this mean to any
one of the companies that we own. and
then how do we proceed forward? I still
think that this business is probably
best positioned as anyone to help
navigate this situation without sitting
here today and saying what the heck is
going to happen next year or the year
after. I'm not sure anybody really knows
exactly where things will settle. But in
these periods of chaos, almost always
any period of chaos that I've been
through in my career, there have been
challenges and problems and there have
inevitably been fantastic opportunities.
And I think that that's the way we look
at it. I think it's the way a lot of
investors in our business look at it. So
I think you should expect that there
will be firms that will navigate this
very well, some exceptionally well,
maybe some that will have more
challenges in navigating the
environment, but I do think that it is a
business that's built to weather the
storm. And I feel like we're going to do
that and it's just going to be yet again
another very, very interesting and
challenging time that has to be
navigated. That's kind of the way I look
at it today. And maybe that's partly
being able to look back over 30 years
and say seeing different periods of
chaos and seeing how the industry
emerged from it. If you really think
about it, probably in the depths of the
GFC, that's about as much chaos as I can
recall and many of our clients at the
time thinking this kind of feels like
the end of the world. If you really fast
forward from 2009 at least to 3 months
ago and you look at the evolution of the
industry, the improvements in the
industry are amazing. I mean really the
investors are much better served today
than they were 15 years ago. And I think
the GFC in many ways actually created
the foundation for a much better
business. So, I think that as we look at
this chaotic environment that we're in
right now, whether you agree or disagree
with policy shifts and so forth, I think
that the chances are that this industry
will emerge even better than what it was
before this started. We don't know what
that will look like exactly. I'd put my
bet on the industry actually evolving
and emerging in probably a better state
than it was when it started. Well,
perspective is wisdom, Kevin. I don't
think there's anything to apologize
there. I think you're right. You're
hinting at something we talk a lot about
on capital decanted. And we're not
making predictions necessarily, but once
in a century epidemic, the GFC, one of
the worst recessions and market
turnovers. Again, it felt in the moment
like the world was ending. And I don't
want to dismiss it feels that way again
in different variations and flavors.
Often those vintages where people are
disciplined and courageous to still
invest even when everyone else is
running out out of the building on fire
as we often say tend to work out pretty
darn well. So I think you're right to be
thinking that way. I certainly hope
you're right. As both a leader of Kaya
and an investor myself, I hope you're
right. So, let's double click a bit more
into some of these themes that I'd love
your thoughts on. I know listeners would
benefit from your thoughts on again 20
or so years ago, you saw this active to
passive trend play out on the public
side, on the fundamental public side,
the world I grew up in, the industry we
both grew up in. And I'm wondering what
your thoughts are. A lot of people have
read the tea leaves on the Black
Rockck's very expensive and active 2024
with Pquin and much of what they're
trying to do in in betting Aladdin and
some of these other private capital
acquisitions to basically be an offerer,
a provider of passive low beta private
capital strategies. Is it appropriate to
go that way is maybe the first question.
And second, do you think that is in fact
where many of these, you called them
powerhouse private capital firms are
trying to take these offerings? I do
think that the public markets, the
public equity markets can be looked at
as some form of precedent for the
private markets and the private equity
market. However, I do think that there
are probably some important differences
that say to me at least for the
foreseeable future that it may not play
out exactly the same way. I think if you
start the simplest issue and that is the
spread of performance or the spread of
returns when you look at a peer group in
the private markets business that spread
is still dramatic. There's a big
difference between the median performer
and the first quartile or first quintile
outperformer over some market cycles in
the public equities market. What
happened is that magnitude shrunk and
shrunk and shrunk over time to the point
where the investor looked at it and
said, "Boy, it's pretty difficult to
delineate these great active managers
from a benchmark." So what many
investors chose to do is basically buy
the beta for as cheaply as they could
and then to the extent that they wanted
active returns they spent that time in
other places like portfolio allocation
or asset allocation or investing in
parts of the market where active
investing seemed to generate a greater
investment return. I think in the
private market space that median
performer for the most sophisticated
investor today is probably not going to
generate exactly the returns they're
hoping for. So that tradeoff that you
make in terms of paying the fees that
you pay for that active return, assuming
you're pretty good at picking good
investors, is still worth the trade.
It's still worth that trade-off. And
then of course there's all the
challenges of actually replicating the
beta in the private markets. I think the
way it may play out in private markets
may look a little bit different and it
may already be evolving into this place.
I think you're going to see certain
investment firms who will manage their
capacity in a place like private equity
very carefully and they will optimize
their capital formation around
investment returns and they'll have some
target of investment returns that
they're focused on and they will raise
the capital that they need to do that
and that means they will raise enough of
the capital they need to do that but
importantly not too much capital that
they begin to force themselves into
places where they don't want to invest.
I think you might also see firms get
into things like more aggressively into
things like more liquid vehicle
structures that again may be forcing
them to invest a little bit more than
maybe more aggressively or more quickly
than they want to. have a little less
flexibility with regards to the timing
of the investments and then raise big
sums of capital around that. It's
possible that those firms effectively
become the private markets beta of the
future, right? The really large capital
raisers who put all these things in
place and they may exist in that new
beta space, if you will. And then I
think there are going to be the firms
that focus more on truly on returns. I
think the real question over the long
term of course is going to be does that
magnitude of returns ultimately shrink?
Does it come down to a point where that
trade-off is no longer worth it from a
call it an active although they're all
active in some shape or form in the way
I'm describing it here and that's
something we're really going to have to
watch. for ourselves. By the way, at
Bane Capital, we are very focused on
investment returns. We are very focused
on optimal capital formation for any
fund that we are raising. So, we spend a
lot of time before we raise capital
thinking about the amount of capital we
want to raise, we need to raise to earn
the returns that we want to and need to
get for our investors. That's important
to us. We're a privately held company.
15% of our funds are invested by
ourselves, which is a very high ratio of
eating your own cooking. So returns
really matter a lot to us and that's a
focus for us. I don't think that's going
to be for everyone. I think different
firms will have different objectives and
different goals. That's our goal. That's
our objective. That's what we're focused
on. So you've hit on a couple sub themes
of this line of thought that I just want
to develop a bit further, Kevin. So you
talked about M&A, you talked about
getting bigger, the power law as we've
sometimes called it in this industry.
I've already mentioned Black Rockck, but
very traditional asset management firms
again that you probably advised years
ago that were the behemoths in the long
only asset management world of the '9s
and 2000s. Tro Price and Wellington and
as I said Black Rockck and Franklin
Templeton, they have been extremely
active, voraciously active in acquiring
alternative private capital firms in
particular. It was a buyer market up
until about COVID cuz this was unique
and it was counterpositioning. Suddenly
everybody wants a piece of this and that
convergence of private and public seems
to be gaining steam. I mean, even as of
this recording, I think it was last
week, Wellington, Blackstone, and
Vanguard are suddenly getting married.
We're not exactly sure what that looks
like, but they've announced an
unprecedented partnership. Do you expect
this to continue and what shape do you
think it will pursue and what form will
it take from here? I think that the
industry will continue to see M&A
activity as it has. I think that the
growth in the industry from a product
investment standpoint is clearly tilted
toward the private business simply
because of that ecosystem I had talked
about before where the private markets
are just outpacing the public markets in
terms of capital formation as a form of
corporate financing. So that by itself
will continue to drive that part of the
business and drive demand in that
investment area. I think for the
traditional firms they are in a position
where they have to find ways of growing
their business and they will of course
continue to look into the alternatives
and the privates part of the business as
ways to grow their business and of
course they have some terrific
advantages. They are often very big in
the broader wealth or consumer space.
They have big brands in the places that
they operate. So they have this capacity
if you will. they've got this
distribution capacity that they can feed
into. So they have to find that optimal
product set to bring into that
distribution capacity. So I think M&A
will absolutely continue to be a big
part of the way these firms think about
growing themselves. I'd agree with that
and it seems like it's only accelerating
week to week with the news slow. So
again, maybe asking you to put on your
old hat. You're sitting in the office of
a CEO of a client. They're struggling
with this tension you just alluded to of
return generation, purity of generating
investment outcomes and asset gathering
growth. My guess is this is a tension
and a dilemma that you had discussions
on countless times with your exclients.
So my guess also, Kevin, is that some,
to be fair, especially a few names we
might have already mentioned, would say
that's not nearly the mutually exclusive
tension you're making it out to be. We
think we can do both. How do you think
about the segmentation of this business
taking shape? Does it evolve into kind
of these boutique single lane really
brilliant single strategy firms that
stick to their knitting and then these
big powerhouses behemoths as you've
talked about? Is there a third segment?
Do you see more delineation across those
two? How do you think this will play
out? I think that we've seen a lot of
the way the industry will play out
before. I think a lot of the evidence
that we can turn to sits right in front
of us. Meaning that I do think that
these behemoths will continue to be the
behemoths. They will continue to focus
on that. And I think what's important to
the behemoths is that they have big
distribution footprints or big client
footprints. They're going to probably
have to and want to play in every single
market segment they can possibly play in
to scale their business. So whether
that's the institutional business, the
wealth business, the defined
contribution business, the North America
versus Europe versus Asia, whatever it
may be, they're going to want to be
accessing every client base that they
can access. And for them, I think having
strong distribution capabilities, having
a strong brand ultimately in any market
segment they're trying to penetrate will
be very very important for those
organizations. And I think you see those
kind of organizations coming both from
the traditional side of the business as
well as the privates and alternative
side of the business today. That's
probably the big difference that the
privates and alternative side has
evolved dramatically in especially the
last call it 5 to 7 years where they're
really putting themselves in the
position to have that kind of client
footprint. So yes, I see that as one
model and the challenges for them will
be being able to bring high quality
product to their investors. I think then
you'll see the other group, if we're
going to simplify it into two simple
groups, I kind of think you can. That
other group is probably going to be
investors, the ones that are really
focused on investment performance and
their focus may be narrow or it might be
broader. It could be either. But the
real orientation of those organizations
is a focus on operating in areas where
they believe they can deliver outsiz
returns. relative to a benchmark,
relative to something that a beta
someone can buy as we talked about
before in whatever form that that comes
in. And I think that can be in any part
of the capital markets really, but I
think those are probably in a lot of
ways the simple two models that exist in
asset management. We can get into the
different variants of each one of them,
but in a lot of ways, those are really
the value propositions that are offered
in the asset management business. So, it
kind of to me makes sense that those are
probably going to continue to be the two
types of models. And I think the
challenge for many firms, and I'll tell
you this as an adviser for the better
part of the 15 years following the GFC,
that many firms were caught in the
middle of those two models. They didn't
really know what it is they wanted to
be. And I do think that you kind of have
to pick one or the other. Again, there
are variants of it, but generally
speaking, if you aren't clear about what
your core value proposition really is to
your investors, I think it does get in
the way of your strategy, and it gets
away in the way of how you execute on
your growth model. And hopefully in the
way that I explain Bane Capital as one
example, you can see the difference in
that kind of thinking relative to the
way another business model might think.
Yeah, I think that's a key insight there
is that the murky middle or towing the
line, one foot in each lane, however you
want to describe it, I think is more
perilous than it's ever been. And I
think it will become a lonely, dangerous
place, too. So, thanks for the
consulting hat on that one. You made
reference to the new client base, the
the shiny new toy that is probably
talked about in this business more than
anything else, which is the wealth
channel. And we also talked about in an
earlier context this idea of product
innovation towards more liquid or
semi-liquid forms of accessing beta or
alpha in private capital. We've done a
couple episodes on this show on
democratization. It's funny to your
point on where you're coming from in
building this capability. You're either
building the manufacturing because you
come from a traditional asset management
side. You've got this distribution
capability. Suddenly, you need the
expertise of private capital, which is a
completely different skill set. And then
on the other side, if you're a big
private capital firm trying to now reach
two-legged investors, you've got to
build a massive distribution system that
the others have. So regardless of which
way you're coming, you've got a huge,
very steep curve that you're building.
So I'm curious as you assess the shape
of this, the pace of this, it seems like
this race, this arms race is heavy, both
from a product, a talent, a resources
standpoint, a branding standpoint. How
are you assessing where we are in this
process and what should we be watching
as it develops? If we just isolate the
private markets part of this, which I
think is the focus, I think the parts of
our broader asset management business,
we know how that's kind of played out.
But in the private markets business, in
the wealth area, there are parts of the
wealth continuum that are obviously
fairly well penetrated at this point all
the way through parts of the market that
are just the brave new world. There's
really barely anything that's happened
so far. So I think that if you take a
simple continuum of the wealth market
and you say okay let's take the ultra
high net worth side of the continuum
where you might have not only what I
would call conventional ultra high net
worth but family offices and something
that looks almost more like an
institution. That part of the business
today I would say is very sophisticated.
I still think there's a lot of growth in
that business for private markets. It's
a very fragmented business and it's a
very in some cases secretive business.
That part is a very generally speaking
very sophisticated business. Obviously
they are qualified investors and they
typically have been investing in these
private markets for decades. So that
part of the wealth market which
obviously represents a pretty big
proportion of the overall wealth market
I think will continue to evolve in many
ways like the institutional market will
evolve. And then I think if you move
down the continuum and you get into more
of the I would call it conventional
high- netw worth market, you've got
decent penetration and you've got some
investors that are investing heavily in
private markets and then some who are
not investing at all. So again,
opportunity in that part of the market,
which again is we're talking typically
qualified investors and so forth. So
people who have at least the capacity to
invest in this area, that part of the
market, it takes up a pretty good chunk
of the wealth market. But then once you
get to the other side of it, you get
into that mass market in the retail
market called the lower end of the
wealth market. In aggregate, it's a
massive amount of capital. The amount
just in the United States alone, by the
way, it's a massive amount of capital.
And if you go outside of the United
States, it's obviously even bigger. But
I think that in that part of the market
you've had historically a couple of big
impediments. One is regulation which I
believe will be solved and evolved
around. And then the other is vehicles
and especially liquidity. So I think
that's maybe the most interesting thing
that's happening right now in the market
is you see certain firms out there with
a real focus on I think what they would
call it democratizing private market
investments to the consumer to the mass
market and I think that's a really
interesting place to watch. I think in
that part of the market what is
happening is these large firms
especially having a lot of interest
around vehicle innovation. what can we
do to create more liquidity? So, you see
things like BDC's and interval funds and
things like that. And that's especially
interesting in places like private
equity. I think probably a little less
interesting in places like private
credit, which it lends itself a little
bit more to, but as we talked about
before, there's some pretty big
challenges with vehicles like that. But
I do think that that innovation will
continue to be worked on. I think for
some of those larger firms that are
really seeking big footprints, big
client footprints, that will be the
place to watch. And if they can tap into
that part of the market, obviously the
penetration levels today are extremely
small. I mean, the allocations are 1% or
less. It's a very very tiny part of that
overall business. So the upside there if
the innovation can happen, I think is
really interesting. And as we talked
about throughout the podcast, this has
historically been a supply side driven
industry. So I think you should expect
that innovation will continue to come
from the manager side of the equation.
And I think that we should expect to see
some some innovation. I think there will
be challenges and probably mistakes and
things that will push it backwards at
times, but this will be the real place
to watch in the wealth market. I think
that last point Kevin is so important as
you might imagine for Kaa reconciling
and toggling getting the balance right
between fiduciary care and even
perceived client demand. Sometimes as we
all know what clients want isn't always
the best thing to deliver at least in
the exact way they think they might want
it. There have been a few kind of
mulligans hiccups along the way which
you kind of alluded to we should expect
in a period of rapid innovation in any
industry. There's always a bit of
hiccups in the early days. Would you
diagnose those as the product innovation
hasn't quite got it right? The
communication hasn't gotten quite as
strong as it seasoned as it needs to be.
The training of some of this talent that
maybe is more versed in traditional
asset management isn't quite ready to
handle some of the inquiries and the
concerns. Where do we still need to oil
the machinery here to get it right? I
think in any evolving market in our
industry, it typically comes down to two
things. One is that product and vehicle
innovation. And have we gotten it right
so far? I'm almost certain the answer is
no. There even within if you look at the
various choices available from a vehicle
perspective today, you're still talking
about four or five vehicle types that
are evolving. And it's not clear to me
that one in particular has emerged as
the dominant form yet. And I think that
makes sense because we're just in a very
early in baseball terms, we're at first
or second inning kind of thing here.
Probably more first than second. So we
really don't know until we advance this
a little further along. And then the
second factor is of course the investor
themselves and their experience with it.
And I think the experience typically
goes through some kind of evolution as
well that it typically starts with some
kind of capital raising and a
normalization of the product and being
brought into the portfolio and then at
some point there's some dislocation.
There's some kind of market dislocation
that creates a problem. And once that
problem happens you watch how the
investor reacts. Some of the investors
will react in a troubling way. Some will
probably react and say, "Oh, okay, maybe
if we just evolve this a little bit in
this direction, it will be better for me
and I'll make it work better." And then
on the provider side or the supply side,
they'll look at it the same way and say,
"Gee, okay, if we just do this and make
some tweaks, this could make it better."
I think it'll follow some kind of cycle
like that as it has in the past and then
we'll see how it evolves. I do think
that the biggest issue around this and
maybe some of this is due to the fact
that the mass market has gotten very
conditioned to liquidity, daily
liquidity or more so now intraday
liquidity. So I think that that
conditioning of liquidity of the
portfolio for the mass market has to be
deconditioned or unconditioned or
whatever the right word is in order for
the investor to get comfortable with it.
And that's that cycle that I talk about
happening. That normal cycle is going to
have to play itself through, I think,
before we actually see mass adoption. If
we ever see mass adoption, but assuming
that we see some adoption, it's going to
have to play itself out. So, I think
there's still a lot to watch here. I
don't know what that end state's going
to be exactly, but it's a lot of
experimenting and seeing where it's
going to go. Now, we'd agree we're in
first, second inning at the latest. But
I think what we're concerned about is
there's already relievers up in the
bullpen. We don't want to pull the
starter so early. Let's get this right.
It's a long game. Just to kill the
metaphor a bit. One more trend before we
get to a couple closing fun questions.
Kevin, what about human capital? And I'm
asking this both from the perspective of
the long-term trajectory questions on
private capital and the chaotic current
scenario and environment we're in now.
Historically, as you know better than
anyone, the talent recruitment,
professional development track has been
very vertical, very homogeneous. I think
it's been a weakness for this industry
for a long time that never really has
had to be addressed. We all look in the
same pools to find talent. We feed them
the same feed stock and they grow up and
to be exactly the same type of person.
Do you think that that needs a complete
reset given all these current and future
issues? It's a great question. I still
think that this industry attracts some
of the greatest talent available. When
you think about some of the really
lucrative industries that exist, this is
certainly one of them. So obviously that
is at its foundation a pretty strong
attraction for looking at this industry.
I think that though you are right in
that this is no longer the opaces of the
entrepreneurs that existed back in the
80s and in the '9s when they were
originally creating these businesses.
And so I think it may be a little bit
more about how that talent exists as
successful transitioners of businesses
as opposed to successful creators of
businesses. I think that forever in
asset management the concept of
generational transition has been a
challenge and it doesn't always work
right it doesn't always work. I think
the businesses that create really strong
apprentice models where they're very
very good at creating apprenticeships
for their people and they're able to
evolve, develop, evaluate their talent
and then make good choices about how
they transition talent and leadership
over time. That's going to be everything
for these businesses. And I think
history will tell us that some
organizations are able to do it.
Probably far more are not able to do it.
It's a really really difficult act to
pull off. I think that's the primary
thing I think about with regards to
talent at least in the scale businesses
that we're talking about. I do think
that the barriers in the business still
for very very talented people and
returns can be relatively low. They're
much higher than they used to be, but
they're still on a relative basis kind
of low. The possibility that you're
going to have and the probability in
fact that you're going to have the
entrepreneurs who are creating the next
great companies in our business is
actually quite high. It's happening as
we speak. There are great companies
being created right now for sure. We
don't know their names and we don't know
the people. 10 years from now, we
definitely will know who they are. That
certainly exists. But I think in the
space that we operate, it's much more
about that transition and development of
talent. I think that's the real focus. I
don't have any concerns about attracting
talent into the industry. I can tell you
from the seat that I sit in here that
the quality of the people that are
interested in Bane Capital is extremely
high. It's a very very impressive group
of people. At least from my seat, that
talent opportunity still seems very very
strong. Well, you bring up a really good
point on different eras call for
different skill sets in the room around
the table, right? And often the
builders, the entrepreneurs, and great
investors don't always translate into
great operators of larger systems. So,
we often use phrases like system
thinkers, lateral thinkers,
multid-disciplinary problem solvers. And
uh I think we might need a bit more of
that than maybe we've needed in the
first 30 to 40 years of this business.
So, I think that's really helpful.
By the way, John, I'd agree with that. I
think one of the simple evolutions of
the business, I think, has been that
there's a recognition of the people who
are good at investing. There's
recognition of the people that are good
at relationship building. And then
there's a recognition of the people that
actually know how to run businesses and
they've separated those roles or
dedicated those roles in clearer ways.
And I think the industry's actually
gotten a lot better at that than where
we existed 15 or 20 years ago. Let's
close with a couple fun questions. kind
of hot seat questions that again at the
center of the hub of a lot of spokes and
and conversations and interactions you
have all the time. First of all, maybe
the proverbial 3:00 a.m. question. If
you're a CEO today at Bane or any of
your contemporary, what are you most
worried about the phone call being about
the disruption, the risk, the hurdle?
What are folks thinking about these
days? I think the risks in the business
or the things that you worry about as a
CEO or a managing partner today in many
ways are not that different than what
you thought about 20 years ago. I think
they remain fundamentally the same
thing. Now the big difference is that is
the environment that you're operating in
today. It's those things we talked about
before those macro factors and some of
the chaos that's been introduced into
the system over the last couple of
months that really can challenge our
industry and challenge any one business.
So certainly those things when I think
about the conversations that you have
with CEOs and managing partners today
that's very clearly a big focus and then
what the impact of those macro factors
might be in where they shift their
capital their resources their investment
on a go forward basis. So it could be
having real strategic impact on a lot of
asset management businesses today, maybe
for the first time in a long time where
they really have to step back and go,
gosh, do I need to reallocate my
resources toward a certain region or do
I need to reallocate toward a certain
market segment or do I have to
reallocate toward a certain investment
capability? Whatever those things may
be, I think in these periods of
disruption, that's the core strategic
questions that you get asked. And so I
think those things are certainly keeping
the leaders up at night, me up at night,
I'm certainly thinking about these
things every day for sure. I think in
terms of the more foundational things
you think about in terms of that phone
call in the middle of the night, it is
more core to any period of time. It's
the am I continuing to differentiate
from an investment standpoint? Am I
performing well? Do I have an advantage?
Have I created a sustainable competitive
advantage in what I'm doing from an
investing standpoint? That's c a big one
that keeps people up at night. Another
is where am I going to raise capital
from in the future? Where will my
capital come from and how will I do it
and what will make most sense for me in
terms of how I want to optimize that
capital base for the business. Another
is talent as we just talked about making
sure that we created strong alignment of
our people and making sure that people
are here for the duration. Those are two
or three of the fundamental ones that I
think just naturally keep people on
their toes and thinking every day. And I
think that will as long as the industry
is an industry, those will be the kind
of things that keep the leaders up at
night. Just playing back your phrase
strategic impact or strategic
opportunity. Maybe the other side of
that coin is trends, themes or
opportunities we didn't get a chance to
talk about. We talked about great
convergence and M&A and wealth and
talent and a whole lot of human capital,
a whole lot of things, but what haven't
we brought up that you'd like to leave
the listeners with that you also think
CEOs should be thinking about? I don't
know that it's something that I haven't
brought up, but rather maybe summarizing
a couple of the points that we dove
deeply into and then just step back for
a moment. I think this concept of what
your business model is and what your
value proposition is as a business is
really a fundamental thing for a CEO, a
managing partner and a leadership team
or a board or an owner, whatever it may
be of an asset management firm. And
really knowing what you want to be when
you grow up and then thinking about how
you allocate your capital and your
resources accordingly has probably never
been more important than it is right
now. And I think by the way it's been
important for a long time. It's been
important at least since the GFC. That
would be to me probably the most
fundamental thing that I would be
thinking about. know what it is you want
to be and make sure you're reinforcing
that with the way you invest and the way
that you allocate capital and resources.
And that, as we talked about, I think
some of these organizations that sit in
more of a middle ground, if you will,
and maybe don't know exactly what it is
they want to be, I think can find
themselves in trouble. So clarity of
purpose, clarity of vision, clarity of
value proposition, I think is probably
the most important thing that can guide
leaders when they're thinking about
navigating this increasingly difficult
business. Know who you want to be. I
think that's a very succinct way of
delivering a very everinccreasingly
challenging message. So Kevin, it is
always a delight. Thanks so much for
sharing your wisdom, your experience,
and your views on what the future looks
like. It's been a pleasure to spend time
with you. John, great to be with you.
Thank you for having me be part of this.
You bet.
