[Music]
Hello everyone. Thanks for joining us
today. I'm Steve Novakovich, managing
director of KAIA curriculum here at KA
Association. And I'm delighted to be
joined today by Jane Bach and Sue Break
to talk more about total portfolio
approach and particularly the
implementation and uh what it means to
work at an organization that employs the
TPA uh model. And so with that, I'd love
to take an opportunity to introduce uh
my my two fantastic guests today, Jane
and Sue. Uh Jane, why don't we start off
with you? Give us just a little bit of a
sense as to your background and your
work that you've done so far with TPA.
Uh thanks thanks Steve. Um so I've been
with WTW for close to 24 years starting
off in Korea actually as an
organizational consultant and I think
that gave me a a good appreciation for
governance related issues. I then um
moved into the investment side of our
business from about 2006
and um have taken I guess different
roles throughout my career uh with the
investment team but primarily being
based in Asia I have had the opportunity
to work with large government schemes
pension schemes and sovereign wealth
funds in the region and that's one of
the reasons that I have stumbled across
to total portfolio approach because many
of the funds that my clients admire um
are practitioners of TPA.
>> Fantastic. And Sue, uh thank you so much
for joining us as well. Uh why don't you
tell us a little bit about yourself and
your background with TPA?
>> Sure. And and thank you for inviting me.
It's a it's an honor. Uh so most
recently uh I uh have been the CIO of
the future fund um which you know is a
practitioner of the total portfolio
approach. Uh prior to that um in the
very early days I um I grew up in uh
dealing rooms and investment banking and
thrived in the sharp elbowed you know
may the best person win cultures uh and
then came to sovereign wealth fund as
one of the architects of New Zealand
super um back in the early 2000s and and
so was one of the architects of the
approach there which I've since learned
to call the total portfolio approach
because I had uh two and a half years,
three years at Willis Tales Watson and
they had done some really good work in
terms of looking at the evidence from a
number of different organizations who
use similar approach and and and tied it
together. So I I got to to design it at
New Zealand super and then I got to fly
it in earnest uh during the co period uh
at the future fund in terms of the
you know the total portfolio approach
machine that had been built there and
those machines are built for times like
that and it was an absolute p privilege
to be able to fly it through that that
period of time
>> and so you forgot to see it firsthand
working at two different organizations
and and how uh the TPA model works and
in a lot of ways too I think one of the
great advantages of that is one of the
things we talk about in our paper is
that there isn't necessarily a singular
definition per se of TPA. So you got to
kind of see how two different
organizations really made it their own.
So I'll look forward to digging into
that a little bit as we as we talk uh
further on this.
So with that, maybe I wanted to start
off with with Jane. Um, and given that
from the role that you sat in, you've
been able to engage with a a whole
number of institutional investors, some
that use TPA, some that don't, some that
transition to TPA. And so, just to start
off with maybe the first obvious
question, uh, can any organization adopt
TPA? Is is TPA for everyone?
So it's an interesting question because
I think theoretically the answer is yes.
Uh that said I think all of the examples
that we see in real life so far have
tended to be you know larger
organizations that are quite well known
reputable and so you might be thinking
well that's good for them but maybe
that's not right for me. But if you
think of TPA as less of a model and more
of a state of mind then I think the
answer is generally speaking yes you can
adopt certain elements of it think of an
individual investor like any of us it is
possible to instead of thinking about
equity equity returns or fixed income
returns to to think about your total
return in a more joined up way now
that's an extreme example most most
organizations
um especially the ones that are
considering TPA are going to have their
own in-house teams uh and will have been
running SAA approaches for many years.
Um but I think at least some of the the
thinking behind TPA is definitely um
adoptable by any investor thinking about
total returns, thinking about being
joined up, thinking about better
communication across teams, thinking
about risk factors, seeing through uh
returns. I think all of that is
eminently doable.
>> So if a if a a plan came to you and
said, "Hey, we're thinking about doing
TPA
and and we'd love your opinion on that."
Would there be anything that you would
look at that might give you a reason to
push back on that decision or have them
think twice about whether or not it was
right for them to transition to TPA?
I I think that my my view on this is
very similar to Jane's. In practice, I
haven't seen anyone um really drive the
model without
a sophisticated and complex portfolio
and therefore without
good risk systems. Um and it really does
fly when you have all of those things.
But I do think there are versions of it
and any it's not a um it's not a half
pregnant thing. You don't have to be all
or nothing. You can take aspects of it
that you know will will improve things.
But I think the the key thing or the
place to start if if an organization is
really keen is is the investment
governance because it is likely to end
in more complexity. Once you start
thinking about, you know, you put the
the total portfolio objective in the
center of every investment decision,
which is essentially what a TPA is, then
the risks of not achieving that
investment objective are al is also
central to the process. Um, and then you
you see all these risks and you want to
be able to manage these risks and there
are ways to manage those risks very
cost-ffectively. I'm a very big fan. Um
but it requires complexity and you know
Roger Owen who's the um you know the
foremost expert on investment governance
will tell you that you know you you
shouldn't run a more complex portfolio
without having the appropriate
investment governance. So it really
starts there and the and the um
you know preparedness to to really look
at investment governance and make sure
that you've got all the bits and pieces
there. If if you want to run it in
earnest in terms of the complexity that
comes.
>> Maybe just to add a thought there Steve
I think really it is about trying to
solve for investment complexity and
decision- making. the the reason that
somebody would consider doing this I
think is because of that governance
angle. If everything is hunky dory and
everything is working fine and you are
absolutely happy with your program, you
don't need I guess a higher plane of
governance then maybe it isn't right for
you. But I do think that most of the
funds that are contemplating this
transition are doing it for those
governance reasons because they believe
it's a better way to manage complexity
that they're facing.
>> And and so to that point, I think, you
know, you you both highlighted, you
know, really interesting factors about
things that may need to be in place to
to do that transition. Jane, you talked
about being able to uh be able to look
at risk factors and have a lot of good
ability to analyze portfolio
successfully. both highlighted
governance as factors and so you know
what that leads me to in thinking then
is uh with kind of looking at those
elements maybe you could speak to a
little bit uh you know I'll start with
you Jane you know what needs to be in
place to be successful in this
transition and you both highlighted
governance so it sounds like that's
something that needs to be kind of a day
one conversation but maybe you could
kind of chat a little bit more about
what are some of the first things you
need to look at as an organization to
start the successful uh transition uh
into TPA.
>> So I think there's sort of hardware as
well as software um to think about here.
Um but maybe hardware is easier. Um you
know Sue alluded to the need for risk
systems. I think often times I see this
transition
in thinking happen when um a fund is
actually focusing less on return and
more on risk. So it's the question about
are you trying to maximize return or are
you trying to minimize the risk of
failure
um you know the systems and the the the
investment that's required to be able to
do that to a higher degree are quite
significant. Um, and if you don't have
even that, you know, maybe the thought
won't even occur to you. But I think
it's it's when you have that clarity of
seeing the risks that are in the
portfolio that you potentially start
thinking about how they impacted that
total portfolio. So it happens almost
naturally. I'm not saying it's a
prequisite though. So um maybe that's
just one example on the hardware side.
um you would also need a strategy team
that is a little bit um more open to
thinking about that as well uh rather
than the old mold of of just here's the
SAA we do it every three years um and
everybody just needs to to follow this
um and then we just manage within these
bands so it needs you you need a
strategy function that is going to be
able to do more than just that um on the
on the software side I'd say couple of
things winning hearts and minds is quite
important. Um, so
I think two things you would need to
have a belief that the current system is
not the best for whatever reason or that
the current arrangement is not working.
Um, I think you would also need some
element of willing leadership. leaders
can also be led in some to some degree
or influenced but I think you also need
basically support
sponsorship from somebody at the top you
know a desire from the top as well for
betterment
um and I think because I think I've
mentioned this before in the paper that
we wrote together but um it's going to
take a while to make these types of
changes so you need the ability to
handle delayed gratification that would
be what I what I'd say for the hard and
soft Right.
>> And and Sue, you know, you talked about
governance. So I I'm imagining then it
it probably and and Jane just mentioned
this, it probably takes some conviction
from the leadership to conduct the
transition in a successful and smooth
way. But also at the board level too,
I'd imagine that you really need to have
uh buyin from the board which could
result in a very meaningful change in
how the board operates and engages with
the plan. So I was wondering if maybe
you could speak to that a little bit in
terms of what you need out of the board
in order to have a successful transition
into TPA.
>> Yeah, again I completely agree with with
Jane. I think the three factors that she
mentioned here with the with some
employee the the leadership the systems
and the culture but um the the culture
at the board is really important and I I
would say that the starting point is
unless you've got an enthusiastic
chairperson
I just I would question your
the hard road you're going to be having
to try and get there because it is
really um it is really a
transformational change. It's a big
change and a lot of the investment
cultures around the world have they
value um fundamental analysis, whites of
the eye, smarter than the next guy, sort
of um alpha chasing. That's what
investment is. That's their model for uh
investors and that's their model for a
good investor and that's their model for
a good investment leader. uh and so for
that kind of organization to make this
change is quite is quite challenging. So
you would need to have a chair who
really who really gets it and really
wants to go there uh and really believes
in the additional it's not only about
risk mitigation. There's plenty of of
evidence and and plenty of audiences
that you speak to who agree that there
is extra return as well as lower risk.
you're you're you know greatly improving
the sharp but you're also able to
harness extra return and um and I think
the the unwavering belief in that and
the governance work are going to be um
essential before you you start because
you know change fatigue is very real in
these projects and um that you know
commitment to it is is is important but
again you know my experiences with very
large very sophisticated uh funds there
will be a a simpler version of that. You
know, people bear in mind that that's
where my experience is is is speaking
from.
>> Yeah, Jane, there there might be a bit
of a chicken and an egg question here,
but um you know, just in practicality,
where do you start? Do you start with
rewriting your governance? Do you start
with building out systems to to be able
to collect all the information that you
need? is what what is what is you know
the actually the very first step
meaningful step that an organization
would would take to move in the
direction.
>> I think the you know as with any change
initiative the first step that often
happens is a recognition
of um you know some of the shortcomings
of the current system. It's a diagnosis
essentially. Um, I think the impetus for
change comes from a place of recognizing
why you need to change. Um, and so I
know that that sounds quite conceptual.
Um, and it's not as if everybody just
does some kind of diagnostic, right? Um,
but when I look at where people start,
it it's as with any human endeavor, it
starts by focusing on fixing problems,
right? So you have to recognize what
those problems are first. Then as you
seek other ways to solve those problems
and you start talking to your peers,
that's where the idea for okay, there's
another way to approach this I think
comes. But you know often times it it
doesn't start from hey I've come up with
a cleverer model or
um shouldn't we just revamp our
compensation system? It usually doesn't
happen that way. It it really is about
fixing a specific problem. Um, in some
funds cases that will be more of a
governance problem. In other cases, it
might be an agility problem. Um, but
what we have found is that TPA does tend
to lend itself well to many of those
problems. At the end of the day,
investment is a people business and so
the problems that we're trying to solve
for are people related in most cases.
So, I'd say you you start from a place
of what is working and what's not
working. And if some of the things that
are not working
are things that can be addressed through
TPA, then I think you start researching
that um and looking at which elements
are right for you. I'm not sure that I
fully squared the question that you're
trying to ask because I know a lot of
people want the quick fix. Just give me
step number one. Um I don't really have
that for you, Steve. I think everybody
has started from a slightly different
place.
Well, that that no, that makes sense to
me. And I think that what I'm really
hearing you talk about is an
organizational embrace. And that's
something that I think really we
discussed in our paper and sort of
permeated throughout that is that it's
something that is every it's a there's a
culture element to it and you want to
have uh sort of that teamed up joined up
approach. And so Sue, you know,
following on with that, I guess one of
the things that I'm curious about, but
you know, in transitioning to TPA, I'm
I'm guessing that there's a chance that
you might have some turnover uh in in
employment uh because maybe the model
isn't uh right for everybody. Is that
something that you experience that for
TPA to be successful, you need to
basically have a full team embrace of it
and if there are folks who can't get
behind it that it they might be better
suited to be somewhere else?
>> Uh I think the answer to that is is is
probably um I think the the biggest
personal impact of working in a TPI
environment is the
autonomy. the SAA where you someone
decides on the SAA and they can do that
with autonomy and then someone decides
on um their piece of it and how they're
going to engage and they can do that
autonomously.
Um that you know I think it's Dan Pink
that said that's one of the you know
basic needs of people being met when
they when they work. They need autonomy.
So you need to be really um conscious of
cutting across autonomy when you're
trying to bring every decision being
made cognizant of what you're trying to
achieve. Um and so the people who enjoy
that are the ones that love working in
high performance teams are purpose-
driven love doing something really
really well for the client. Um but if
you are very high in autonomy
um you're going to hate it. you're going
to hate it. Um so I think I think I've
been through the transformation now four
times and uh you know four times in
depth um multi-year and I've I've gotten
better at it in terms of being able to
warn people about some of these things
and so the pain is less but the very
first one was very painful very painful
um so I think you know get some advice
before you start off so that you're
aware of where those pain points are and
do it in a way that's that is going to
suit the organization you have. There
are some organizations who have made a
very successful model out of not doing
TPA. You know, they have siloed or in
parallel investment streams that are
all, you know, like a a mini model of of
capitalism are all and innovation are
all out there doing something amazing
and the best ones will survive. And in
my experience, I don't know any asset
owners that that works particularly well
with and someone will will write in and
tell me where I'm wrong. Um, but with
asset managers, that's works well
because an asset manager objective is to
beat a benchmark whereas asset owner is
to achieve something with a total
portfolio and that's where the TPA uh
is, you know, is best suited. Gosh, I
hope I'm not putting people off,
Stephen, because I really do think it is
a a wonderful journey, but it has a it
has a people and culture element that's
really, you know, intrinsic to it.
>> But I think really Sue, you touched on
the the key difference, right? You have
we can just be as good as any asset
manager. We'll just hire the same
people, pay them about the same, um, but
maybe give them more purpose. I'm not
sure exactly what what the uh logic
might be, but I think you have had a lot
of asset owners that have been trying to
emulate
the asset management, you know, world,
but at the end of the at the end of the
day, they're very different in terms of
the underlying nature. As you say, you
know, as an asset owner, you have a
singular purpose. Um, and there's a
reason for being. um you know for an
asset manager you have to basically be
the absolute best you can be for many
different clients with many different
purposes right so I think you know
touching on that also helps to
understand why we might see this or it's
a little bit more prevalent potentially
within the asset owner space
>> and and Sue to follow up on your comment
if if I'm a professional in the industry
and either my firm that I'm working for
is switching over a TPA or I'm looking
for opportunity and maybe a firm that
employs TPA has a job I'm looking at.
You already mentioned the comment about
autonomy. If you're someone who really
values autonomy or thrives on autonomy,
maybe the TPA model isn't right for you.
What else should a professional know
about before
joining a TPA organization or thinking
about joining a TPA organization to make
sure that it's a right fit for them?
I think the um
you know that that thing we all say we
have but when we're being self honest
you know maybe no none of us are
particularly good at it certainly the
older we get and that curiosity and
humility uh about different ways of
doing things. the longer you do
something a certain way, the more
codified it becomes in your DNA. And
it's just very hard for you to imagine
because you've seen all the reasons why
it's the right way to do it. And it's
it's quite hard to check change. But if
you if you love an approach that is uh
is always open to what might be the best
thing to put in the portfolio rather
than turning a handle on the process
because that is very nimble is more
dynamic. TPA is more dynamic than SIA
and it's for a buffin like me, I love um
thinking across a broad range of of
particular types of investments that um
will suit a particular need that we
have. So the future fund you know who I
adore uh through the co period the the
you know everyone had been in training
for these kinds of crises with this kind
of model and it was this incredible um
you know here's the pivot we want to
make. We did a really big shift at that
time in terms of this is the marking
point of a new world and we need to be
you know more aware of inflation, more
aware of globalization, more aware of
politicization, you know, um
geopolitical risk etc. And so we made a
number of uh just describe them as
attributes that we needed in the
portfolio. And each of those asset class
teams would go out and club something
over the head and bring it back and go
this and the group would say, "Yeah,
that's what we want. Now that we've got
this, we really want that." And yes,
that comes with some things that we
don't want. Um but we can either
neutralize it with this or we can hedge
it with that. And it's this, you know,
for people who who enjoy that
um big picture thinking, you know, it
was exhilarating um and and you know,
and
you know, does bring better outcomes and
and both the organizations I've worked
at, future fund and New Zealand super,
the dynam dynamism, they're both very
dynamic pro uh portfolios, has reduced
risk and added well, one of them reduced
risk, but added
huge amount of return uh by being
dynamic at the total portfolio.
>> Just I'm just imagining all the
engineers coming together after Apollo
13 um and trying to fangle something up
with whatever is available. Um, but
yeah, it the the way I'd express it
maybe is that if you are one of those
people that doesn't like a lot of change
and likes to be, you know, to to have
visibility on what you're going to do
dayto-day. Um, which is not a crime at
all. That's definitely something that a
lot of us, I think, aspire to actually.
Um, to be, you know, a professional at
the top or the pinnacle of your field.
um and not to have to deal with other
annoyances outside of your particular
area of specialtity, right? There are
many organizations that will allow you
to do that, whether that's in the asset
management field or within the asset
owner field. Um I think there is a level
of vulnerability that you are opening
yourself up to by adopting TPA because
it does require curiosity, openness, and
a learning culture. It requires you to
be wrong at times and for another asset
class team to be more right um for the
portfolio at a given point in time and
you know that takes humility to actually
say actually I'm not good for the
portfolio right now um takes I think a
bit of courage as well as vulnerability.
So you know fostering that type of
culture is very different. Um you can't
take it you you can't take these
metaphors too far. At the end of the day
we're not that different. Um, and if you
meet somebody at either of these types
of organizations, you'll find that
they're actually not that different in
what they're doing dayto-day. But, um,
it is one of those subtle organizational
things um, where you are encouraging or
enabling
that curiosity and openness to actually
add value.
You know, Jane, I appreciate your
comment that it's that not that we're
splitting hairs by any means, but but
there's not the differences might feel a
little bit subtle in some ways from a
day-to-day standpoint for the different
types of models. And so, you know, but
with that, Sue, I want to kind of ask
the same question, but in a slightly
different way, which would be, you know,
you were you hired people into your
organization. So you you were looking
for investment professionals and I'm
assuming that you were looking for
certain qualities or characteristics
that maybe an SAA investor wasn't
necessarily focusing on or as
prioritizing as much as maybe you did.
And so I'm kind of curious, what were
some of those elements that maybe you
think that someone working for a TPA
organization emphasizes a bit more when
they're interviewing and seeking
investment professionals uh to join
their firm?
>> Um I mean firstly I would say it still
needs deep asset class expertise. You
you don't want an organization of
generalists um you know people who are
excited about cross asset class. You
need the expertise. you're investing a
very large, very complex portfolio and
you need people to know what they're
doing. I think with both the
organizations I worked for, um once you
get to the point where the total
portfolio is in the DNA,
you can uh you can focus more on the
expertise and less on the the um the fit
with the culture because that person
won't get away with it. you know, they
won't be able to drag the organization
back into a silo because it just it'll
feel weird. It does feel weird to them.
They go, "What is this place?" Um, and
so it, you know, you can then, you know,
uh, it's quite hard to find those people
who are deep expertise but also still
uh, young enough in their brain to be
able to think curiously and think
differently. It's a very very difficult
skill to find. So it's a it's a slow and
painful process getting the culture to
that point and all the other things that
you can do in an organization to get the
culture there. Uh you know the future
fund have set up a future fund academy
that is is all about making sure that
that that uh kind of culture is is is
maintained. But you know initially you
do have to be very very careful about um
you know the kinds of people that you're
bringing in without compromising the um
the asset class expertise or SIAA
expertise if that's what it is that
you're looking for.
>> And and Jane when you were working with
firms that were making the transition
did did you see them going out and uh
changing who they were hiring or or how
they hired? Did something change in that
part of the process at all in terms from
from in terms of the people that they
were bringing into the organization?
>> I mean, I don't think I saw it up to
that degree. I think most of their
energy was focused on actually getting
their own people on board. Um, so if I'm
honest with you, did it did I get to see
the part where they were like, "Okay,
we're all settled internally and now,
you know, we can focus." I'm sure they
did. Um but a lot of the energy I think
is actually spent as I said before on
shifting hearts and minds of your
existing people who have worked in a
certain way for a long time and that is
you know that requires a fair bit of
energy. Um
but you know over time gradually yes you
you hire the people that are a good fit
culturally for your organization that
will never change. I mean, even when you
were, you know, maybe more of a policy
portfolio SAA type of investor, you
would still be hiring people who are
right fit for the culture. It's just
that your culture is shifting. So, I
don't think that would ever change. I
think all asset owners will be focusing
quite a lot on cultural fit when they're
hiring. Um but in terms of you know
somebody who has fully embraced a TPA
approach you're probably going to put a
a slightly higher credence on things
like um communication some degree of
maybe multiasset capability. I mean what
I saw for a lot of the organizations who
were early adopters of TPA um around
about say right after the financial
crisis there was a visible increase in
the number of strategy people on the
team as compared to previously. So there
there was I guess a recognition that
there was a need for more strategy
expertise to be able to navigate you
know the the world that we were in. I
also noticed that they were hiring
bankers um from from ris you know risk
risk people from bank bank uh previously
from banks. Not all of them necessarily
but there was definitely a move away
from just pure relative risk which was
kind of the mantra at the time to the
need to bring in some absolute risk
expertise as well and also build you
know within the strategy team build up
almost like an investment risk function.
you know how the risk team needs to be
somewhat sep segregated and you know
separate reporting line best practice
all of that but one of the things I
noticed was that there was a a greater
emphasis on investment risk and
oftentimes those investment risk people
were actually working very directly with
with the asset class teams and and I I
think think that there was a period of
education going on where these you know
new experts were actually helping the
organization understand you know the the
risk that we're running through what
used to be considered siloed asset
classes. So, you know, that's just one
example how, you know, we are we are
creatures of our environment. And I
think um you know, that particular shock
to the system did result in the models
that we see today as you know the way
we've coped with those types of crises
has actually given birth to a stronger
model in my view through TPA.
I I I would strongly uh endorse that
Jane and I completely agree after the
you know we were midway through an SAA
review um during the global financial
crisis and as an asset allocation team
and that's when we pivoted to this
reference portfolio concept with a total
portfolio approach again we didn't call
it that and then um it was really co uh
you know at the at the future And again
we were midway through an analysis that
made us pivot. Um so it is it's that
learning you know that learning about
what's really is important but you know
the whole premise of the total portfolio
approach is it's right at the center of
your of every decision and not your
processes. So I agree I think it really
came in earnest after the GFC that this
this idea of thinking about it
differently. And in my experience I I'll
be honest we we stole the concepts from
the Canadians. So I think that was
probably the birthplace um birthplace of
the thingy. Yeah.
>> So Sue, one other thing I wanted to pick
your brain on. Um a lot of this
conversation feels like when we're
talking about it uh in terms of
implementing and transitioning that it
really is something that's going to be
driven by, you know, the CIO, the board,
other senior professionals in the
organization. If I'm a little bit lower
down on the orga chart, if I'm a more
junior professional, what is my role uh
in a successful TPA? What is what what
what can I do to encourage my firm to
transition there? Or when I'm in a firm
like that, how do I what what role do I
play? What part do I play uh in in in
all of this?
>> I mean, I I think there's a lot. I
really do believe that leaders are in
all uh you know seniorities of an
organization and believe in hierarchies.
Um and so there's a lot you can do to
influence other culture by uh raising
risks that are not being addressed um by
um implementing it in your own area in
terms of just constantly being that
person that brings up what are we trying
to do here? um by shortcomings in the
governance because that is often where
these things start. Um and and just
being um you know it's harder as a
junior person and I and I agree I admit
that I was in my 30s I think before I
was brave enough to stick my neck out. I
now wished I'd done it earlier and I
encouraged people you know everybody has
value to add to the conversation. It
took me a while to realize that by being
wrong
which is what I was so frightened of. I
was adding value because now the the the
group could go that's stupid and they
could move on to something that was
gonna, you know, end them in the right
place. So, it took me a while to make
consciously make that decision. But be
brave and and and say what you see. You
know, I I I think that it can it it has
a profound impact uh on culture to have
um you know, more and more people doing
that. Maybe to add Steve from at least
for what I've seen from Asia because
Asia does tend to be a little bit more
top down than bottom up, but at the same
time that top down piece is often times
a rotating
um a rotating one where it's not, you
know, 10-year terms, but two or threeear
terms. And so the the layer that's
immediately below the top management is
actually in some ways longer standing
and more influential in a lot of these
Asian funds. Um
but one of the things that I've noticed
and the way I've seen it sort of
percolate through some of the Asian
funds that I work with is actually peer
benchmarking. Um you know there are a
lot of large funds out there that Asia
funds wish to emulate. Many of them are
within very sort of strict um essay type
frameworks where they lack flexibility
and dynamism
and when they go and talk to their peers
they are sometimes shocked to hear
different ways of doing things. I can
give you two examples of you two
different peer studies I did one where
we were speaking to future fund. It was
David Neil at the time um and my client
was completely blown away by the fact
that there were no department related
bonuses. Now that might have changed
since then. This was a long time ago and
Sue can tell me, but at the time David
was basically basically explaining we
have a total fund um approach and so the
bonus is basically based off of the
total fund results and your individual
KPIs and that's it. No departmental
bonuses, no pool of money for the equity
team um versus the fixed income team.
And and the client was so shocked
because they hadn't envisioned that that
was even possible. Um, another simple
sort of um, example was when we visited
CPPIB's real estate team and um, the
client actually asked because they
couldn't actually believe that this
could work in practice. So, in a year
where it's unfavorable for you to deploy
anything into real estate and you don't
pull the trigger, you would still get a
bonus. And the answer to that was yes,
absolutely. And that completely shocked
the client as well, a different client.
But it's things like this that they
bring back and they learn from over the
years and you go back again and the
answer hasn't changed and the results
you see the results over time and I
think that has influenced. So you know
just speaking and learning from others I
think is another way that this happens.
>> So one thing we haven't talked about
really is uh risks and uh you I think
that some folks can maybe imagine some
of the risks. There's implementation
risks, execution risks and so forth. But
uh maybe I'll start with with you Sue
would be um are there any unintended or
uh unexpected risks that a firm or
organization might have in transitioning
to TPA?
Um I mean there's there's again the
complexity doesn't have to come with it
but obviously there are risks around
complexity and the um the governance is
really important and a specific element
of that governance is a disciplined
investment approach because if you take
the
SAA asset classes away and the ranges
around which they can move and you allow
the whole portfolio to move dynamically
You could really get that wrong if you
haven't thought carefully about what
gives you confidence. what kinds of uh
uh building blocks as I call them once
you get rid of asset classes that can be
all all manner of things you know what
what makes sense what do I have the most
confidence in and and a and a risk
budgeting exercise that's very
thoughtful about that um because if you
um you know if you leave it to a a small
group of people to to react you'll get
those usual human biases of of fear and
greed and you all those other things we
know we're capable of. So I think the
the the portfolio construction and the
investment decision making it's all part
of good governance uh needs to be very
clearly um clearly articulated and then
the the bigger risk even than that is
the the not bringing people along. The
cultural thing can be extremely painful
um if you haven't
you know and and painful to the point of
collapse i.e. It's it's not to be
sniffed at like it, you know, it needs
to be very well managed.
>> I was thinking similar things actually,
Sue. Um because in in some ways you
might say, "Oh, I've been in this
straight jacket all this time and
suddenly you're giving me, you know,
freedom freedom to do it." And you know
that additional flexibility I guess if
you're at the board level and you're
looking at it, you're afraid that that
might be abused, right? And so the
investment discipline in place and the
level of trust between you know
management and the board is going to be
quite key. In fact I think uh I was
struck by what Charles Hyde said that it
was a constant and ongoing effort that
um and I sort of see that as like an
exercise regime. You know once you
decide I'm going to be more healthy um
and I'm going to you know just generally
be taking better care of my myself.
um well if you stop doing it at any
point that's it's not going to work
right so you have to be constantly um
working through a program and I think a
lot of that board dynamic and management
dynamic and trust is you know akin to
that um one other thing that I have seen
with maybe this is more of an Asia thing
is that
um the strategy team oh this is
something for the strategy team which
we're going to rename the total
portfolio management team or the total
portfolio approach team and they will
take care of it and I can just do my day
job and not worry about it because you
know anything that falls through the
cracks the strategy team will do some
something to to to manage the risk. So I
think the you know one of the risks is
that you don't as as Sue was mentioning
you don't bring people along you allow
them to keep their silos
um and somebody else is going to fix it
um it's somebody else's problem maybe
that is also another potential area of
risk in terms of making this transition.
Just adding to the delegation issue, you
know, it's a really important point and
in my experience what it looks like in
terms of that transparency, it's a one
pager description and a half um of the
framework by which you're making the
decisions and and the framework is very
based in competitive advantage and why
you can have high confidence in this. So
instead of it being this big process
document or this really tight no
delegation, there's this constant
refresh and discussion with the board of
the framework by which these decisions
are being made and why and the
disciplines and and why the board can
have confidence that they're good
they're good investment decisions.
>> So you both have been very generous with
your your time and so I want to be very
mindful of that. And so where I'd like
to conclude with is there's a lot of we
don't know what we don't know.
Especially for myself, I don't uh in
this topic. And and you're both much
more expert on this than than I could
ever hope to be. And so I'd love to kind
of uh end with giving you both just an
opportunity to for any closing remarks
on uh things that people should be
thinking about whether they're exploring
uh transitioning their firm to TPA or
they're looking into joining a firm that
uh you utilizes the TPA model and just
kind of your your final thoughts or
closing thoughts on on on either or both
of those points. So maybe Jane will
we'll start with you and allow you to
kind of give any concluding thoughts
that you might have uh for this
conversation.
I'm going to keep it short, Steve. Any
change that's worth doing is going to be
difficult, but absolutely worth it. So,
I would encourage anybody who is
considering it. You know, do your
homework, do the research, make sure
that you understand what you're getting
into, but know that there is a reward at
the end if you get it right.
>> Sue, final words.
>> Uh, again, echoing that, I'm um going to
ride my hobby horse a little bit. I I
really do think TPA is essential for
diversified uh management of a portfolio
in the current environment
um where there's been this big increase
in you know passive investment and um
these mounting
potentially systemic risks of
geopolitical tension and and how that
might manifest in terms of you know the
reserve currency status. There's just so
many I've never seen in my career more
that you know I'm not saying they're
likely but they're no longer something
that you can ignore. And so to go back
to basics and go what what does risk
mean for us and what are we really I
think you have to in order to be able to
navigate the the waters that we're in.
So strongly strongly recommend thinking
about TPA.
Well, Jane, Sue, I'm so delighted to be
able to spend the last 45 minutes with
you both. I know I learned a lot. I'm
I'm so appreciative of you allowing us
to continue this conversation and
continue to talk about the TPA model and
and implementation and working there and
the challenges that uh investors may
face in terms of thinking about and
managing through their transition. So,
I'm so grateful for your time and thank
you so much. You're
>> welcome. It's a pleasure. Thanks so
much, Steve. Thanks, Sue.
[Music]
