[Music]
Welcome to Conversations with Frank
Faboszi. I'm Frank Faboszi. The CFA
Institute Research and Policy Center
brings this series to you. My guest
today is Ken uh Kenneet Blake. uh he's
the head of uh research for global
thought leadership at Invesco where he
leads the uh development of original
research through collaborations with
investment teams, industry researchers
and institutional clients. He has
collaborated extensively with Nobel
laurate late Nobel laurate Harry
Marowitz on developing various asset
allocation models. He has published in
leading industry journals. He earned a
BBA in finance from the University of
Texas at San Antonio and he's a fellow
of the Judge Business School at the
University of Cambridge of Finance and
the Center for Endowment Asset
Management. Uh, welcome Ken. Thank you,
Frank, for having me and thank you for
the invite. I appreciate it. Well, thank
you for joining us. You've had an
interesting career journey. I mean I
know all about it but can you share a
little about uh where you began your
journey and how you arrived at your
current position at Invesco?
Uh absolutely. Yeah. Um you know it was
interesting. I mean I I I started where
I am today is not uh the path that most
pe most people get to uh to get to where
I am in doing research. So I actually
started in what I'll call the the dregs
of the financial services industry as a
stock broker. um they call them
financial adviserss today and they're I
think they're better today than there
were they were before. Uh but that was
in the days of um you know cold calling
and pitching stocks and those types of
things. That was what was uh passed off
as financial advice. And I remember
going to broker training in in Hoboken,
New Jersey and um they had they brought
brought in these people for the center
of excellence. And essentially what the
center of excellence was was a guy that
taught you how to cold call, how to make
more calls a day uh by basically being
rude to people. So started there after a
couple of years uh basically the the
2000 uh the market decline there. Um in
2003 I moved to a firm called First
Global. Uh became a consultant to
financial adviserss. Now, First Global
was a firm that served uh CPAs that
wanted to become financial adviserss or
that wanted to incorporate financial
services into their practice. And so,
that was an interesting um interesting
experience in that they already had a
business and so they're very careful
about how they approached financial
services. And that was very well aligned
with what um kind of how I viewed the
world.
Um as part of that, when we were serving
these these financial adviserss, uh I
would find that I would recommend a
certain portfolio. my colleague would
rep re recommend another one uh another
colleague would recommend another one
and there would be different funds or
different securities within those
portfolios and one day I went to my my
boss and I said look hey we're making
all these different recommendations
first of all we should um uh we should
be maintaining our research on these
these investments so that if something
changes we can let the people know um
I'm not saying that I can pick the best
things uh I just want to make sure that
we have some collective view on which
which securities we want to offer
um we couldn't do that. The the firm was
too big to try to keep track of who did
what and what what was implemented. And
so that actually started my career in
building out a discretionary asset
management platform. So I became a due
diligence analyst, an asset allocation
um uh policy person, built out
quantitative processes there for
security selection um and began became
began managing discretionary multiasset
portfolios. Um that eventually led me to
the to becoming the director of research
there at First Global and
um um that's when I met Harry and
started doing research um updating our
asset allocation system uh our asset
allocation approaches and also the uh
doing research with him on tax cognizant
portfolio analysis which was something
that was really important for um our
adviserss and so we actually did a full
set of research and actually created a
prototype uh with the firm before I left
there. I then had the opportunity to go
work with Mark Critzman at State Street
Associates was which is also an amazing
opportunity not only working with Harry
but Mark Critzman you know his
background and that team there really
solid team and I spent three years as an
advisory research man manager um uh
working with institutional clients to
advance research projects. Uh that was
uh that was an amazing opportunity and
and learning from Critzman and the team
and being able to apply those things and
working with clients uh was great. Um
and then lastly um Investmo Invesco
called me uh one day and they had this
um head of thought leadership for
solutions role and I was like yeah
thought leadership for solutions. And
when we got to talking, um, it struck me
that one of the things that would happen
at State Street is that we would go
present research and at the end of those
conversations,
people would want to do something. And
unfortunately, at least in in in in that
instance, there wasn't a way for them to
work with us without, you know, paying,
you know, large sum of money for a
research engagement. And when I thought
about what we could do at Invesco, I
said, "Well, we can have if we can
develop research, go engage with
clients, um, once we get to the end of
those conversations and they want to do
something, I have a pathway to be able
to share that with them." And so it was
it was kind of a I would say it was a
risk for me to move over because that
was what I was going to try to do at
First Global, excuse me, at at Invesco.
And um, it worked out. So I've been here
now uh you know close to seven years uh
building out this role and it's been uh
really an amazing journey.
And the next person I want to interview
from your firm is the people who does
the who put together the commercials. I
love the commercial the investor. They
do a great job. They really do the cues.
They are funny. They're very
entertaining. Well, you know, I gave
sort of a brief introduction of what
your role is at Invesco, but I I'm sure
I didn't do it justice. You want to
expand a little bit on it? Yeah, like
you said, absolutely. So, the like I
said, I have a fairly unique role and
it's something that I've been building
out as I've as I as I've gotten here and
it um like you said, officially I'm
developing original research through
different collaborations with our
investment teams, uh industry
researchers and even institutional
clients. But, um
what I also do is try to actively look
for opportunities to share research that
our investment teams or Invesco is
actually creating. um that means that
I'm out at conferences that I'm uh uh
out um uh trying to find ways to share
that that research. So from um a
day-to-day perspective, basically I get
to be involved in a lot of different
interesting types of research uh with a
lot of smart and interesting people. So
it really is in a lot of ways a dream
job. U as with anything there's there's
the good side and the bad side. uh you
know doing doing research research is a
from a business perspective it's a
costly thing and so you always have to
be balancing all right the type of
research that you do and why you're
doing it how does it help the business
and so while while I I I do get the
opportunity to explore a lot of
different areas of finance um the other
part of it is that I I'm also viewed
closely to make sure that the things
that I'm doing are relevant to the
business doesn't have to be product
specific u but they can be concepts that
we can use to engage engage with clients
and those types of things. It's not
really I don't view it necessarily as a
huge constraint. Um but it does in some
instances uh mean that I have to kind of
pull off on uh uh some some some
endeavors. I can tell you look at a
stack of books on your desk if we get
that
read that well you know you've obviously
dealt with a wide range of topics. I
would imagine all of those books vary
they're not all on asset allocation. So
which research efforts have you enjoyed
the most?
So uh so um I'll make the distinction
between the the research efforts I did
with Harry which I think will always be
for me the the the most uh important and
significant because I learned um I
learned about doing re a research a a
lot about doing research from Harry and
and frankly the opportunity to go
through the asset allocation process
from beginning to end with Harry Moritz
is just I mean it's a who wouldn't want
that experience I mean talking to Harry
discussing how do you come up with uh
with assumptions the coariance matrix
and those types of things that was
really just an amazing experience. The
other part was the tax cognizant
portfolio analysis which uh uh w- which
was one of these things that uh really
stretched me from a coding or an
analytical perspective because you know
Harry was was older at that time and
really what we would do is we'd talk
about talk about an idea and he would
you know essentially after we discussed
he says well Ken we need a a model of
coariance for this I'll go create that
um and then we talk a little bit
morning. He says, "Well, Ken, we need a
a taxation model to understand how taxes
impact these our assets." Okay, so go
and create a a taxation model. Um, and
then, you know, we would say, well, we
also need a multivariate simulator to
understand taxes across a portfolio. And
so, I you basically had to go off and do
all of this by myself. Um, and at that
point, um, you know, I didn't know Mat
Lab or Python or anything like that. I
was I did everything in in VBA and Excel
and um uh um it was it was a really
interesting time but that I I'll always
remember that experience as being
something that was was wonderful because
we took research from uh ideiation to uh
to actually a prototype. Yeah. Um he he
had to you know he had to take the
various series I for I I'm not familiar
with the series seven because or the
series that you have to take but when he
was working as a consultant he had to
take all of those uh those examinations.
I don't know if he realized that he had
to get I didn't know this. Yeah. He
calls me up one day he was upset and he
said you know I just took the series and
I forgot what it was and he goes and
they asked me questions about my theory.
I had no idea what they were talking
about.
Said, "Well, that's not unusual for it's
like lawyers who take the CPA exam and
they uh they have a tough time on it
even though they know the law." But it
he was very funny on that. But by the
way, how do you identify which research
topics to pursue given that your your
research must support what client
engagement
uh and your your capabilities?
I mean uh you know how do you decide on
uh you know which topics to cover?
So look there there are what I'll say
there are three main avenues. One is
going to be um you know this is uh
investment teams already have some type
of an idea or a concept that they want
to uh build out and that's one of one of
the avenues. The second one is the uh uh
business needs some research for a
particular um in a particular area. Um,
and then the third is uh what I think
are the funnest but most difficult are
these kind of highlevel themes. And a
lot of times that that requires me doing
a lot of selling within the firm to try
to uh get those things pushed forward.
Um, these things can take several years.
Like I've I've got two or three things
right now that I've been working on for
or at least working on advancing for for
a couple of years. But to to give you an
example of some of these things like the
uh we did some work with with ESG
investing, right? And um what I try to
do with the research is to be pragmatic
about it and um provide insights,
practical insights that uh would be
useful to most investors and not one
side or the other. And ESG was one of
those. And we ended up with the
framework. We worked with our ESG group
uh worked with Steven Hin um great
researcher, great guy. Uh and we prod
and actually Elroy Dimson from Cambridge
University on that. and uh we produced a
what I'll say a framework that allows
you to allows you to to to look at and
evaluate your ESG exposures. One of the
arguments we made there and I think the
thing that made sense for us is that
there was a lot of people doing ESG and
if you asked them how well did you do
your ESG nobody knew. And so what we
suggested is that look, if you're going
to be doing this as an objective,
whether you believe it in it or not,
whether I believe in it or not or or
whatever, if you're going to be doing
this as an objective, you have to be
able to monitor your monitor uh your
progress towards achieving that goal in
regular regular intervals, whether it's
one year or three years or whatever. And
so we proposed a framework for that. Um
and you know, but it was funny because
it it's really useful for ESG. Uh but
when I was talking to some other folks,
one of the one of the things that they
brought up was like, well, hold on, you
can actually use this framework to
actually weigh uh weigh uh you know
these these uh carbon emission producers
more heavily. So you can actually create
an anti-ESG portfolio with the the
research that you've created. So like
yeah, you could do it with this is just
an objective approach to to doing that.
So it was a a nice way of of of uh of
putting that together. Let me let me
take a wild guess. your big project now
is AI something related to AI. Um
actually no the uh so although AI is a
big deal there are a lot of a lot of
limits to that and to kind of where
things are going with AI. I think right
now the uh privacy aspects I think
people are still trying to understand um
how to use AI effectively for now you
know that I think what everybody agrees
with is that AI can help to um uh
uh facilitate work. So you can from even
from writing to um uh from writing to
even coding you can ask you know you can
tell your your AI system to produce some
code and you can you can start using
that that saves you hours on end. One of
the key areas that we're actually doing
which I think is is is is quite
interesting is for our model portfolios
each of which has you know different
holdings and different securities and
those types of things. We're using AI or
we're starting to use AI to produce
market commentary that's specific for
each one of those portfolios and that
has really um limited uh really cut down
the time it takes to produce that uh
that quarterly commentary uh which is
great. Yeah. I mean, just using NLP and
being able to read every single document
that the SEC puts out on a particular
company is great, but what what is the
process look like when you're working
with an investment team on research? Are
you typically involved in the idea
generation stage or do you step in when
the team has an initial concept?
It can be um any one I mean it could it
can range from any any one of those
things. So there there are some
instances where the team has
an idea that they want to get out and so
I will we'll start off with kind of the
ideation process. Um there may be
research that that that that they
already that they're already working on
but they they had they don't have the
capacity or the time to actually produce
something. Um and you know I collaborate
with them to to produce those things. Um
and then there's other things that come
organically from just uh networking and
keeping keeping in contact with
different teams what they're doing and
how they're approaching things and that
is is in some instances leads to these
highle uh themes that can be used by
them. So for example um one of the one
of the latest projects that I'm working
on is the revisiting active management.
So the because that's the fund you
fundamental active management um uh you
that's that's obviously a big part of
any asset manager that's where there's
revenues there and so the the point for
what I'm trying to do is like what can I
say about fundamental active management
and so right now what we're going
through is kind of revisiting all of the
arguments against um active management
and trying to understand what is what
has changed over um over the the you
know over time is there I I don't want
to interrupt, but I have a whole series
of questions based on your very
interesting work that you did for the uh
CFA research foundation. So, I really
wanted I do want to get into that. Okay.
What challenges arise when uh
translating investment team research
into publishable articles? So, I know
you have you and your group have
published in both the FAJ and JPM. Are
there some common gaps between
practitioner research and what journals
expect?
Oh yeah, definitely. Def so definitely.
And so the uh when I think about
investment teams or even asset managers,
there's I think about four types of com
uh content that they produce. One is
going to be market commentary. Um that
generally is like the Fed did this and
the markets did this. The other thing is
uh the second one is asset class or
product specific commentary. That's
generally written by our investment
teams. Um, and then there's research or
investment concepts. That's probably the
smallest subset of things because that
isn't necessarily kind of talking about
money in motion, but that might be
describing an investment approach um uh
which which could be useful for client
engagement groups. And then there's some
combination of those three. And I think
about for example capital market
assumptions um um that kind of falls
into both area. There's research that
produces them and then there's the uh
ongoing regular updates to to those
capital market assumptions. Now what
I'll say is for me is that the shelf
life of these ideas needs to be long. So
when you talk about market commentary or
you know investment commentary that's
going to have a shelf life of maybe a
quarter maybe like maybe even a year.
But what I'm trying to do is identify
ideas or concepts that we can talk about
today. We can talk about next year or
even three or five years from now about
how our investment teams or how Invesco
is thinking about uh approaching the
world. And that makes it uh that makes
it uh um
you have to kind of discern what ideas
can I turn into these these these long
shelf life concepts that can be used for
engagement um on an ongoing basis. Well,
your portfolio managers are all
evaluated on performance. How do you
measure the success of your research
efforts? Is it based on client
engagement, publication impact, internal
adoption by your own investment teams?
And can you share an example of research
that led to meaningful client
discussions?
Um absolutely. So the you know the the
for me the the for first and foremost um
when I try to do research I want to make
sure it's research that I would be
comfortable sharing right I it's not I
really have tried to make a clear
distinction between research thought
leadership and marketing. So research is
the generally this this the the the raw
idea that goes into a a journal. Thought
leadership might be some distillation of
that into a more manageable digestible
uh form that can be shared and then
marketing is something completely
different on trying to entice people
midcaps are going well or uh you you
want to get into short duration or long
whatever it's going to be. So I make a
real clear um uh uh distinction about um
uh those types of things.
Um, now the second thing, so I got to be
happy with it. Then second, second
secondarily, if I'm working with an
investment team, they've got to be happy
with it. If they're happy sharing this
with their clients, essentially that's
what I'm trying to do, then then that to
me is a good sign. The third is really
measuring has the research allowed us to
have client conversations and
engagements. Um, uh, and and that's I
think probably the most critical thing.
Now one point I will make here is um
all of the research that we do has to go
through some avenue. Um so I've tried to
find different avenues to get research
so savvy investing and those types of
things but generally it has to go
through our marketing and dist
distribution folks and so you have to
translate that that research in a lot of
ways so that it's usable by them with
their clients and so there's a lot of
time and effort you know not only
producing the research but producing
additional content that goes along there
they tend to have a different view of
the world they want to have like KPIs
how many times did someone click on it
how long did they those types of things
and that at least from the raw our
research perspective, those are the the
numbers are going to be completely
different and the the reach that you're
going to get with those raw research
pieces are going to be substantially
different. And so that's always an
ongoing conversation um at the business
is how do we measure this kind of stuff?
Uh but generally that's that's how I
view the world. Yeah, that that's
interesting to me going through uh firms
that put out great re you know we we
have in the investments area we in in
the financial services industry we have
firms that where there are researchers
and uh that uh if you look at them they
top many of the top business schools
finance programs in terms of their uh
their academic output I mean just
incredibly good
My biggest problem in dealing with you
know organizations is dealing with uh
legal and compliance. Yeah. you know,
someone submits an article and uh you
know, legal and compliance gives a uh
you know, some type of a notice that's
like half the you know, half the number
of pages in I can't tell you the number
of superb articles that we ne we
accepted at general portfolio management
never published because you know that
you know legal compliance treated treats
that as if it's uh you know like the
next big merger that's going on between
someone. I mean we don't get simple
simple things and you know and I realize
it's very important because you know
have you been with Black Rockck I know
even the most minor suit against
somebody and cost a million dollars to
to to uh defend. But you know what I
want to go back to you know can I make
something make a point on that? Go
ahead. Because I think that's that, you
know, I think that's another interesting
constraint because it also um um
requires me to define the type of
research that we do. So, for example,
some of the latest uh compliance rules
are that if you include research on
something that is related to a specific
product, um then when you present back
tested performance or anything like
that, they're going to require you to
include uh performance net of fees at
the highest fees chargeable. So um when
I look at these things that's that's why
I think it's important to just look at
concepts generally. I also try to avoid
being product specific on on the
research because it does from a
compliance perspective really makes
things uh uh complicated. So if I can
just share the concepts that from a
compliance perspective makes things a
lot easier. Um now what they've told me
is that you know the SEC or at least
what they look at what is you know what
is set in conjunction. So if you sent
the the the research piece plus a
marketing piece then it's all marketing.
It's like look I can't control how it's
distributed but what I can do is I can
produce a piece of piece of work that
can be distributed. Um, I think editors
of most journals, I know I do this, the
financial analyst does the financial
analyst journal does it. I know Gford
Fong does it. As soon as something even
smells like marketing, we flush it right
away. But it's very interesting. You
have people who write books on
particular acid classes and they're
practitioners and they write the whole
book.
You would wonder how they can get away
with doing an entire book unless they
already got permission from their their
legal and compliance. But I do want to
go back to to to I found very
interesting your work. I think it was
what was it called? beyond active and
passive investing and I think the
subtitle was the customization of
finance where you know you did that for
uh the CFA research foundation that was
one of the monographs you did for them
and uh and you analyzed I guess the ev
evolution of active and passive
investing and you predicted the future
of asset management. Can you provide an
overview of that work? Yeah. So the Yes.
So, and so and that I think is a a great
a great example of one of these long uh
these thematic pieces that serves the
the generally serves the firm. I does
it's not firm specific, but it serves
the the firm in a ways that it it
highlights what's happening in the
industry and it allows Invesco to share
this is how we're approaching these
types of things. So, it's not Invesco
specific, it's industry specific, but it
allows for client engagement to have
those discussions. So, yeah. So, so the
the we did there's it actually breaks
down into two parts what we did there.
The first was that like you said the
evolution of active and passive in
investing over time from 1989 to 2021.
And what I'll say there is that um uh
the the the perception of the investing
landscape isn't necessarily reality.
What we found was that yes um passive
investing has grown but when you started
looking and this we looked globally we
looked at uh ETFs and mutual funds all
across the world uh we broke them down
into three different segments the US
Europe and then rest of the world which
was kind of the the catchall. Um
and what we found was that um where you
had the greatest growth in um passive
investing was first in in um equities.
Um secondly, primarily large cap blend.
Um large cap blend is a huge component
of uh just total worldwide uh US large
cap blend is a huge component of total
worldwide AUM. Um
and um we also found what was
interesting is that anytime you were
using information to make investing
decisions so even you would say well
okay well it's large cap US large cap is
where passive exists well it's not US
large cap it's US blend value and growth
those areas were mostly active and by a
wide margin and when we looked across
the the spectrum uh large mid small it
was these core exposures were where uh
were where um um passive was actually
making gaining ground and even in the
the global um global funds we were
starting to see move movements away from
regional into these global exposures or
um that type of thing. So it's really it
points to how um how how these these
assets are being used they're being used
for for active investing for asset
allocation those type those purposes and
there's these broad exposures but the
real interesting thing was that um
active management at least um uh at
least today aum and active management
continues to be greater um worldwide
than it is in passive um and the bulk of
passive management is in US large cap
blend which is something that I neither
Mark Rangenham who was my co-author
neither he nor I um uh expected that.
Yeah. The other thing is Oh, I'm sorry.
You started with equity then you know
it's it's much tougher to do uh in the
uh fixed income area. Absolutely. You I
I I I interrupted you. Were you going to
talk about that? Yeah. Well, I can
definitely that one of the the points
that we saw there was the the um
you know, smart beta, the you could call
that active light or whatever you want
to call it. So, smart beta actually had
for a long time started making inroads
into the into the um uh um enhanced
indexing space. Um and then it's started
flattening out and I think it's starting
to to grow again. But fixed income has
had a has has had a real difficult time
with that. Um uh although what we're
seeing today is we're starting to see
more and more fixed income factor uh
portfolios and I think that's going to
be useful going forward for um fixed
income uh management and fixed income
implications. So there you're you're you
are going to start seeing some uh some
inroads into the into the passive space.
Um and historically from you know at
least from my experience the from an
active perspective you were always able
to get a little bit more from active
managers in the fixed income space than
you were maybe uh um it was easier in
the fixed income space than it might
have been in the in the actu active
equity space. Do you remember who did
the first uh equity uh uh index fund? Do
you recall? Well the first one happened
at Wells Fargo and it but it wasn't
widely available. Um uh I think that was
uh can't remember who the the but the
second one was Jack Bogle. So this was
one of the things uh from from from Batt
Van Gordon that became kind of the the
broadly available thing. Um so
let me get back to the to the uh uh to
the monograph. So the patent show I'm
sorry perception of investing is not is
not reality. The second thing is that
we're moving towards customization. um
the asset management is moving um from
what I'll say asset u asset management
as a product or portfolios as a product
to portfolios as a service and that's
going to be a big shift um and there's a
lot of big things happening within the
asset management industry um when you
know it was really interesting to have
the the perspective of somebody like
Mark Rangum who started his world in the
in academics and then went uh he managed
actively managed portfolios and then was
head uh uh uh uh beta uh uh uh beta
equity beta at State Street. So, we had
a really broad view and then I have the
practitioner view. And so, we we we were
able to kind of see where things had
been evolving. Um and and we're really
seeing
where I'll say uh the the big part of
this is the what allowed us to get to
where we are today is what we're calling
pooling. Um this happened um in the you
know 1700s.
um where where we started getting these
poolled assets and that allowed people
to gain access to securities of or
portfolios of diversified securities
that they might otherwise not be able to
gain access to because of uh minimum uh
purchase amounts and those types of
things. Um that started in the 17 1700s.
Um then we went to uh the open-end fund.
They called that kind of the first
closed end types of vehicles. we get
into open-end funds in 1924 that allowed
for liquidity and being able to get in
and out of these funds which was
something that wasn't the case with
these closed end funds um and then we
get to ETFs here in the in the late 90s
um that facilitated um a lot of this
stuff and along the way there's been a
lot of infrastructure a lot of you know
expertise and knowhow into being able to
develop and manage those products very
cheaply um these passive products I will
say
uh they are passive exposures but it
takes a lot of active management to get
those passive exposures in place and
track an index without uh try to
mitigate the costs of trading. Um and
now we're going into these active ETFs.
But what's going to be happening as we
customize is there's going to be a
depooling of assets. So all that scale
that we we started getting and that
allowed us to get to where we are today
um people are now demanding um
customized solutions. So whether they're
preferences for um ESG or there even tax
consequences or even investment
horizons, right? You can start producing
uh these
um solutions that are tied to somebody's
specific liabilities, their specific
investment horizons, their preferences,
their tax uh circumstances and those
types of things. But what to do those
types of things, you're going to need to
be able to dehool these assets. So think
about taxes. If you want to effectively
try to extract or basic or or get uh
accumulate capital losses so that you
offset gains in the future, you can't do
that with an ETF even though the ETF is
very tax efficient. But if you want to
generate those losses, then that is
going to be uh it's much more effective
to do that with individual securities.
So that means having them in an account.
Um, what I will say is when we first
started talking about this, you the u we
had some of our uh some of the folks
within the firms like what are you going
to say that ETFs are going away or and
that we're you know these funds are
going away. I'm not saying that there's
going to be there's always going to be a
case where
um uh it might be easier you might be
looking for that exposure. Um but there
are going to be cases where you want to
be able to pull out of that exposure
especially for example in the in the in
the tax circumstances or even in the ESG
preferences um uh circumstances. Um well
talked about uh about um really taking
into consideration uh taxes and uh
collective and pulled investments but
that's all people did was really talk
about them. Some firms I know, some
asset managers have people who are
dedicated to that and running and
running money. By the way, do you know
how boring it was when they first
started uh uh on uh on on indexing? Uh I
was when I I was considering leaving
teaching and going into industry and so
I got called in by Bankers Trust which
had an an index one. It was the most
boring job you could imagine. You you
know don't forget very little in terms
of you know I mean uh you have more you
have more computer power in your uh cell
phone than you have uh than we had at
that time in managing money and you
would actually have to sit there at the
end of the day. They would give you a
print out of what was in the portfolio
what you had to change. Then you had to
make up a list, give it to a runner who
went down to someone to execute the
order and all that. I started teaching
uh that was uh between but it was really
an incred and the funny thing was many
people consider historically
that indexing was the first quantitative
uh asset management. But so let let me
just what are the key implications uh of
uh u or your perspective on what all of
this means for the future of traditional
active management strategies. Well, let
me first touch on the implications for
the for the investment management
industry uh because I think they're
going to be pretty big. I mean the so
when we're talking about uh evolving
from providing asset management as
products to asset management services
there's a lot of um uh uh first of all
you have to um get much closer with your
clients or or the adviserss and so for
inves clients or financial adviserss or
even institutions so you have to have
you have to build out um uh uh teams and
people that are able to collaborate and
understand the needs of these different
different groups. So the um one of the
things that I'm arguing is that
collaboration across the value chain
from client to financial adviser to
asset manager that's going to um that's
going to increase but that also means
having capabilities to educate um having
capabilities to be able to be diplomatic
about things that can be done and things
that can't be done. Um, and what I'll
say there, and I think when every time I
say it, people kind of chuckle, is that
the the the
value of an extroverted quant is going
to go up, you know, tremendously. So,
people that understand quantitative
finance or understand finance, but are
also able to have meaningful
conversations and develop relationships
with people, those are those are to me,
those are going to the people that are
going to be in in in high demand. um you
know, otherwise you're going to be
commoditized, put in a corner doing some
some quant work. But if you're able to
talk to to clients, make um concepts
easy to understand, be diplomatic about,
like I said, things that can and can and
cannot be done or should or should not
be done. Um that's going to be be really
important. Um second thing is the
technology, right? So the the
sca the pooling allowed for scale. So
you could you could you could do this
one fund and um the costs of managing
that fund for every dollar added is is
is very tiny if if if marginal but once
you start doing these individual
accounts um the cost and infrastructure
to produce the technology to produce the
reporting to produce the relationships
um uh that's going to be something that
I think the industry is now dealing with
right so and it's happening at a time
where there's a lot of pressure on u
costs um
But it but you know this is going to be
the key challenge for asset managers is
how do we get to this this point in uh
this point in the future be able to
provide these these solutions have the
dollar amounts that um uh that are
required to be able to offer these
solutions um uh profitably have those
come down to a point where you're
serving a broader range of clients
that's a key thing and like again um
that's infrastructure cost technology
costs and then human human capital
costs. So that's going to be a key area.
Um and then lastly is this the what
we'll say is the distinction between
active and passive investing is going to
uh become increasingly less less
relevant. Right? So the um once you
start customizing um what we say is that
custom customization is active
management um even if you're using
passive products and and the the thing
that I like to often talk about is you
know think about a tax efficient S&P
mandate. Yeah. So, you're tracking an
S&P index, but you're trying to do it in
a way where you're um uh offsetting the
the tax implications of that. That's
highly active. You're, like I said,
you're generating losses so that you can
offset the future gains and then still
trying to track the S&P. Looks looks
passive, but it is highly active. even
our model portfolio businesses today um
and that's what I said when we look at
the when we look at the the evolution of
things um we have passive products but
they're being used in very active ways
to prod produce portfolios a portfolio
in essence is is an is an is an active
choice how do I allocate across
different asset classes or different
assets to get the outcomes that I want
that's that's I think Harry brought that
Harry Markwitz brought that to us
allowed us to pick our you know have
risk preferences and align to risk
preferences is that's already active
management even though we're doing it
with passive products and that's only
going to expand as we start catering to
different needs and preferences and and
those types of things. The future is
active even though passive is going to
be a big part of that. Hel tell me what
else you learn from the master.
Wow. Um
I I do want to go back to one point on
the the mutual funds because you you did
ask that. But let me Sure. That's a
really good question, Frank. I mean, I
think um uh having had the opportunity
to spend time with Harry that the that
is is the three things that I'll I'll
point out there is
um
Harry was Harry was big on judgment and
approximation. And um you know I I'll
always remember um you know one of the
one of his pet peeves was when people
would come up to him with with a a
correlation that had 10 you know 2 point
or you know 30 point 1 2 3 97 88 that
was like
and what he would tell me is like if
you're you know think about it you're
doing an asset allocation for 10 years
and if you're going to come tell me that
you can
ascertain the correlation of something
with that level of precision then
clearly you don't understand the problem
that you're facing right so the life is
uncertain um these are all estimates
these are all approximations to what is
um you know a model of the world and so
uncertainty and precision just don't
don't don't go together and so you have
to be comfortable with this this
uncertainty or this approximation and
use judgment in dealing with these
things
the the importance of developing
um intuition and this was something that
I learned as part of our our research
efforts. It's like first you have to
understand
what do I believe about something what
are my priors about this thing and part
of the reason you do that and you spend
time thinking about that um is that it
allows you to understand what questions
you have about the topic at hand right
so I believe this this and this
you start getting questions about all
right what about this or what about that
or why not this or why not that um and
um you know that is part of the work
that I always joke with when I talk to
to students, I always joke with them is
that sometimes you just need to sit down
at your desk and think or just sit down
and think or do whatever and think. It
doesn't look like you're working, but in
fact, you're probably doing your most
important work just sitting there
thinking. And you know, one of the
things that Harry would do daily is uh
take a take a walk. And he did it first
for health reasons, but secondly because
that's where he was able to to to think
most clearly. Um lastly I'll say the you
know Harry was a great guy and so the be
kind and have fun exploring ideas. Don't
be dogmatic about ideas. Explore those
ideas with people. A lot of times you
can gain you know have humility about
what you understand and understand that
there are people that understand certain
areas of the world um much more than you
will you do and much more than you
probably ever will. Um and so have fun
exploring those other things and look
across domains. Um Harry devoted one day
a week reading something that had
nothing to do with finance and for him
that was that was really useful because
that you know it allowed him to generate
um uh different ideas. Um you know it's
funny there's a lot of things that Harry
would do.
There's this book um that I recently
went through recently read by a
gentleman by the name of Richard
Hamming. who was a famous mathematician.
It's called the art of doing science and
engineering learning to learn. And one
of the things that he points out is that
all knowledge is connected. There's just
some univers universality to these
things. Even though we're taught
subjects in very uh uh very uh you know
finite uh uh categories, all of it is
connected somehow. And the sooner you
understand that there are solutions to
problems that you have that exist
outside of these categories that have
been, you know, created arbitrarily, the
the the the better it is for you. Um, I
highly recommend that book because, like
I said, it it does a lot of the things,
even some of the stuff that I that I
that I shared about just thinking about
things, having these ideas is, you know,
that's all it's all in that. Um, but
those are the things that uh I I think
that uh uh uh most important things that
I took away from from from working with
Harry that I try to pass on to
everybody. Well, since I think you're
going to write his his biography someday
when you when you have a leisure time.
Uh one of the things uh I'll give you
two quick stories. One one story is I
spoke to his granddaughter who majored I
don't know if you know his
granddaughter. She she went to MIT. She
was an economics major. And I said to
her, you know, why did you decide to
become an economics major? And she goes,
well, my grandfather won the Nobel Prize
in economics. I figured, how hard could
it be?
She was hilarious. And then it was very
funny. You know, his uh his assistant
Mitch. Oh, is fant both MIJ and
Lily. I don't know if you've ever worked
with Lily, but and Lily are
fantastic. Work both.
I, Harry, and and Miz all share the same
birthday, not the same year. Oh, I
didn't know that. Birthday. Yeah. So,
one day um on my birthday, he calls me
up. Both of them called me up. I wasn't
there and they recorded a song. They
sang happy birthday. I tried I then
tried to get that off uh you know, I
then changed my phone. I tried to get
that. I figured it would be an
interesting historic recording. I
couldn't get both of them were so much
fun. So much fun. And that was the one
of the things I remember about uh about
Harry is that we we had contracted with
Harry and I can tell you the story about
how how we brought him on board which
was pretty funny. Um but we contracted
with Harry for um two 1-hour calls a
week and so I would have you know
theoretically I was supposed to have two
1-hour calls a week with Harry. Um I
never had a 1-hour call with Harry. Um
every call I had with him was somewhere
between two and four hours. Um, a good
part of it was spent joking. Um, Harry
singing show tunes, those types of
things. I mean, it was just a lot of
fun. Um, and a lot of times he's, you
know, just spent teaching me things or
like how to think about this or what
about that. Um, and so he would
elaborate on different concepts and how
we got to those concepts and those types
of things. It was just amazing.
Yeah. I mean, I I I share all your
experiences. is I you know I've done a
few books with him and I've done you
know articles with him more of
educational type articles and he was
just wonderful to work with thorough
uh never accepting anything except you
know thinking through thinking through
everything a lot of articles uh in a lot
of part which was very critical of uh
what was going on in the industry but
let me let me hit my last question here
uh this year what is it the 80th
anniversary of the financial analyst
general. Okay. Very important forum uh
for the industry and I think it's the
60th anniversary of the CFA Institute
research foundation. Okay. Um what are
your thoughts uh on the role of the FAJ
within the industry? You've published
research there through the CFA research
foundations on I think you've done
several papers. um why did you uh choose
to pursue publication through the
research foundation? A lot of people ask
me why publish through them.
Yeah. So there's well there's there's a
lot there in that question. So the let
me first touch on kind of the FAJ and I
think the the role in the industry.
Obviously, there's, you know, clearly
it's been around a while, but for um
anyone wanting to understand where ideas
came from, it's probably the single most
important repository of information
about how we got to the ideas that we
got to today um that exists um and is
widely available to investment
practitioners. I think if you're if you
have a CFA charter um you uh are able to
access the FHA and this is a just widely
available to everybody. So even in our
for example our active and passive
investing our beyond active and passive
investing the uh when we went back and
looked at articles uh what we found um
was that there were you know where did
that the debate actually begin and began
in 1960
with two papers in the financial analyst
journal. One was a guy Renon Felstein
who made the case for an unmanaged
investment company. Um and then uh the
one later that year was by a guy named
um John Armstrong um who made the case
for active management. Interestingly
Armstrong was the pen name of Jack Bogle
who would then do the but those were two
papers where you start seeing the the uh
discussion. this is 1960 and we're only
able to get that and those those ideas
or the genesis of these ideas through
something like the FHA um other things
don't exist like that in the industry in
terms of a repository a centralized
repository where we've had some of the
biggest minds in finance um actually
publish papers and have arguments I
remember the for example the the famous
argument between Kitsman and um Brinsen
uh on the uh the importance of asset
allocation that was you could see the
back and forth
Where else can you get that type of
thing? Um, as for the research
foundation, well, I I'm going to inter
I'm going to interrupt you there because
if I don't, I think uh the publishers of
the uh journal portfolio management are
going to be upset that I didn't say
anything. The uh JPM started uh I think
about 20 years later. No, about 14 years
later. So you know I do agree with you
that uh the FAJ was very very important
but there are there are other forms that
have developed. No I could so um Frank
yeah I completely agree with that. Um I
so I think the the key distinction that
look um was it Peter Bernstein um and
everything that you know started like
starting it there it's it's hard to beat
out somebody like Peter and the JPM also
has is just it's an amazing repository
of of of ideas. Um I guess the one
criticism that I would have is that the
accessibility of the a is the of the JPM
um isn't as great as as the FAJ. So I
think both are critical and I think if
you're going to be doing financial
research you need to have access to JPM
a lot of the PMR journals but the
financial analyst journal is is I think
also central to getting a a complete
picture of the ideas in our industry.
One of the things that um and it's not
just those two I mean there's se several
other journals that have developed in
specialized area but the thing that has
gotten me and I I you know I'm holding
back trying to publish to to submit this
article is you know if you talk to um
some uh universities about the types of
people that they are hiring in finance
they only want people who can publish in
the top three journals uh in finance. I
mean you you may not have had a lot of
experience with journal of finance the
uh financial uh the um uh general
financial economics and a review of
financial studies. Those are considered
the top three. You know some
universities would not hire someone or
grant them a promotion or tenure without
publishing those journals. And yet if
you look historically they've come up
with brilliant ideas. I mean Harry
Marowitz's paper obviously in the
journal of finance and they but but the
fact is if you look at who took
everything from an idea to the final
application of it
that was really in practitioner
journals. You look at Harry's ideas he
and I wrote something a long time ago
about you know who's using uh uh uh you
know um mean variance analysis. And what
you see is if it wasn't for these
practitioners and not just the two
journals we've mentioned but also other
journals if you look at that you will
see that getting people to use it
required the ability to implement okay
and and that really has come out of
these practitioner journals much like
you know Thomas Edison was a was a great
uh promoter and entrepreneur but he
wasn't necessarily people person you
developed all the theories which cured
in all the uh you know the scientific
journals. I didn't mean to cut you off.
No, no, but no, but there's there is a
clear distinction and I think if you
were for example that the journal of of
finance and some of the stuff there, if
you were to read articles there versus
the articles that you get in JPM or even
FJ um
the you get you get a practical
understanding of where you can use that
or the ideas that are being presented.
Journal of Finance or some of these
other other journals those are strictly
academic uh
academic exercises, right? and with with
little I mean little attention paid to
the practical implications of
implementing or or or those types of
things. I hate to generalize but those
that's that's part of what what I would
say. Um
well let let me let me uh well
comments right go ahead I keep what
taking us off course. I'm sorry about
that. No no worries that but the
research foundation I do want to make a
point there. So the research foundation
and the active management part because I
think that's I'm really excited about
that that part of the research. But the
research foundation um and publishing in
the research foundation that has a a
pretty unique role in the industry.
There's nowhere else in the industry
that you can publish
um complete sets of ideas. And so the
the um generally when you write an
article you're going to be limited in in
the number of pages although that's
changed recently because none of none of
these that are in print you um but the
research foundation allows you like to
like we are our active and passive
investing that's a 100 plus page um uh
piece and it allows you to completely
address some type of thing there and I
look at some of the the the books and
and this has been even when I started in
the industry
I used to love getting those the CFA
monographs because those provided um
often times some aggregated views of
some of the the most important thinkers.
I always think about like the the the
monograph after the financial crisis the
um and I even have uh
you know financial market history. These
like these are really useful and really
interesting pieces that you otherwise
would not be able to get. Um, like I
said, it's a very special role in in the
industry and I you the that you I hope
it continues in in the in its in its
current form. Um, but I think it's
really really important. Yeah. Yeah. I
mean, you're preaching to the choir here
because first of all, I'm on the board
uh uh the CFA and I agree with you. By
the way, all of those monographs are now
free. You used to have to pay for them.
Okay? Everything now seems to be free
that they give away. They've done a
great job. In fact, this morning, uh,
you know, we we've agreed to do, uh, one
of these conversations with Frank
Faboosezi dedicated to the CFA Institute
Research Foundation. I was preparing,
you know, every one of my questions and,
you know, that's going to be recorded on
March 13th and then I don't know when it
will go out, but they've done a fabulous
job. I mean, I I'm only I'm a sort of a
newbie on it. I think I've only been on
it for a year, but you can't believe how
incredibly hard they work. And not only
that, their whole relationship with
universities, I mean, you know,
universities that don't use those
monographs that you show to teach are
making uh it's an injustice for their
students and they keep putting out more
and more. They have to
what is it called? Enterprising uh
investors. Yeah, enterprising investor.
Great things. you were going to show her
something. Yeah. So, I mean, but like so
even like this is uh what is it? The
founders of modern finance, their
prize-winning concepts. This is an old
monograph. I So, I I I you know, I lost
this one and I and I just purchased it.
But this is Oh, you thought it was free.
Uh I bought it on Amazon. I I I did pay
for it because I guess I the the you can
get I think you can get it online free,
but I guess if you want it printed,
there's a cost of printing. Okay. Yeah.
Um, you know that uh
uh
I mean that's that like the financial
market history and I was going to go
somewhere somewhere else with that. So,
oh, I was going to mention even for
example Bud Hasslett's piece on the
investment luminaries and that is like
what a wonderful piece to be able to
distill like these the people that that
that created finance force or that
created the modern finance financial
world and get their ideas and get their
like what they learned and where else
are you going to get those types of
things and that's missing. Absolutely
right. Like I said before, the the the
the thing is that I don't know if
there's enough academics who teach
finance to use that. I don't think
there's an area a topic within finance
that they don't have a major product on.
Yeah. And these are these are all high
caliber people and talented people.
people who, you know, who have ma been
major contributors, you know, Joan Hill,
uh, uh, you know, uh, Wake, I mean, I
you can name them all. We could sit here
and just do the entire Ron Moberg's
latest piece on active and passive,
right? That's what that's that's why I
decided I wanted to have one just
dedicated to the CFA. That's a that's a
great idea and I'm looking forward to
that because uh I mean I just I mean
it's the first place I go to when I when
I'm looking for something on a topic.
But I do want to thank you not only for
this presentation but for all your help
in the general portfolio management. I
mean we take great pride in having
people who guide us like yourself and
practitioners. I mean, uh, uh, a and you
know, anytime I need help on something
and identifying people, you know, you're
on my speed dial, although that's an
awkward term nowadays, the speed dial
with those cell phones. But I do
appreciate all the help you've given me.
I I've really enjoyed this presentation.
I mean, this uh interview. So, I
appreciate that. But before we conclude,
we got tied up in such what I thought
was very interesting discussions about
the uh CFA Institute research
foundation. I forgot to come back to one
of the most interesting questions. Why
don't you tell us what you're doing
right now in the uh in the area of asset
allocation. I think you're working with
John Gerard or is it and also Larry
Seagull, right? Larry Seagull and John
John Gerard. Um and we're looking at um
active management actually the the uh um
that gets back to the this notion of uh
you know what are the implications for
active managers in the future and I
think the when we look at things I mean
obviously and this has always been the
case that benchmark hugging active
managers are those are not long for this
world um uh but what I do think is
important is that um active active
strategies and we're talking right now
focusing on fundamental um active equity
strategies need to offer something
distinct to investors have a clearer
value proposition. And as as we're
starting to go to through this research
um one of the things that I'm starting
to understand is that there's um
propositions or value propositions or
characteristics that active managers can
bring to the table um that are beyond
just excess return. So the
characteristics of the of the
portfolios, the exposures that the
portfolios provide um and those types of
things. And um when we think about
active strategies, those are going to
start being customized too. Invesco is
already doing these types of things.
we're customizing um um active active
strategies for specific clients for
specific preferences. Um that's all
coming down um coming down the the pike.
But when we think about active
management generally uh one of the
things that came to me the other day is
uh um actually this was in December. It
was the um 50th anniversary of uh uh von
Hayek's um what was it the the pretense
of knowledge Nobel um lecture um and um
it just reminded me about the importance
of uh of how you think about the world
and he makes the distinction in that u
that lecture about the difference
between quantifiable and
non-quantifiable information and there's
another paper called the use of
knowledge in society um where he
presents what's called the knowledge
problem is that there's knowledge that's
quantifiable and easy accessible and
then there's other information and other
knowledge that is um dispersed across
the the the the economy and dispersed
across people that will never be be able
to be quantified and will never have the
opportunity to get to some central
authority to make these these whole
decisions. So that's one part of it. Um
that led me to to Frank Knight and the
the risk, uncertainty and profit. And he
makes the distinction between um you
know risk which is you know quantities
that are sus susceptible to to
measurement um as well as uncertainty.
These are the things that that are not
susceptible to measurement. And here he
describes kind of the entrepreneur and
the ability to generate profit is
generally um occurring in these these
areas of uncertainty not in the the
measurable risk which is which can often
be hedged away. Um and so when I started
thinking about active management per se,
um you know, you can't do that without
thinking about FMA 1970, the efficient
markets hypothesis. Um and where I'm
getting to on there or where we're
getting to that is that active
management lives somewhere between uh
von Hayek and Knight and then 1970 and
then thma French 1992 because it's that
you you get to these two concepts,
efficient markets and then oh by the way
there's anomalies that the markets don't
necessarily explain. um active
management lives between those spaces.
And so when you um think about uh
managing a portfolio or implementing a
portfolio, these are different
information sources that you can get
access to. So the indexes are going to
provide you the average market
information. Bot strategies are going to
give you the quantifiable stuff and the
only place to get this uncertainty and
those types of things is going to be in
in uh in these fundamental active
approaches. Now all of this um requires
that you get a good active manager. That
never goes away. And that's one of the
things that I've uh when I've talked to
our our active management teams, I said
there's nothing I can write that will uh
make somebody want to, you know, buy an
underperforming strategy. But I, you
know, when we think about active
management, here's kind of a framework
to start thinking about it. We're
building on that, but I'm pretty excited
about it because it it's a different way
of thinking about the world. Yeah.
Weren't you slated to contribute to the
uh special issue we're having on uh the
future of asset management? We uh we You
discussed it, didn't we? Yeah, we
discussed it. I haven't I haven't Now
you're stuck. Now you have to do it. If
you don't do it now, I'm going to refer
to uh in my editor my editor's letter
that you didn't come through. So, you're
stuck now.
Thanks a lot.
[Music]
[Music]
