[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high-n networth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, Bill welcomes Roger
Vincent, founder of Summation Capital,
to explore the evolving private equity
landscape. Roger shares insights from
his 30-year career, including his
pivotal role at Cornell's endowment and
his motivation for creating summation to
deliver institutional quality private
equity access to high netw worth
investors. They address private equity's
shift from an exclusive asset class to a
complex industry, the challenges of
democratization, the critical role of
manager selection, and the importance of
fee structures. Roger also discusses the
future impact of AI in investment
strategies and portfolio construction.
[Music]
Roger Vincent, welcome to Educational
Alpha. Hi, Bill. Thank you for having
me. I'm looking forward to this
discussion. I think you and I of like
mind on many subjects, but not so much.
So, we're not going to find some areas
of healthy debate in the course of these
next 35 to 40 minutes, which I'm looking
forward to. One of the catalysts for us
getting together was our common friend
and former colleague in both cases Steve
Novakovich who joined Kai a couple years
ago and he's just been an outstanding ad
there and has done a great job advancing
our curriculum and I think having come
from the Cornell endowment where you
once were. Steve understands the mindset
of a very sophisticated allocator which
has been a tremendous help to us because
ultimately we have to be a resource to
the investment community globally and
has a great pedigree and been awesome
for us and I know the two of you did
overlap as well. So if that doesn't get
him a raise I don't know what will but
I'm glad you mentioned Steve it's
wonderful to see what he's doing and
developing his own thought leadership. I
think one of the things that you find a
lot inside endowments is people who like
the educational side of what we do and
Steve has really become as I say a great
thought leader in the industry and I
encourage anybody who's listening that's
not following him online to do so. Hi
Steve, glad to see you're doing so well.
Right. I appreciate that and I think you
yourself continue to be a student of
these markets and have evolved several
times over and maybe with that
transition Roger maybe a little bit of
your background and experience leading
up to the founding of summation which I
think was just less than a year ago just
over a year ago now time is flying I uh
really have spent my whole career in the
private equity segment of the financial
markets but I've done quite a few
different things and so I'll give a
little bit of that background hard to
But this June will mark 30 years since
the day I walked into DLJ, one of the
great investment banks and investment
firms of the 1990s before and after that
as well, but I was primarily there in
the 90s and started my career. The
beginnings were primarily on what I
would call the GP side of the house. And
among other areas that DJ was renowned
in, it was renowned for its principal
investing groups. And there were
primarily two of them. DJ Merchant
Banking and the Sprout Group, which did
their venture capital and growth equity
investing, while the merchant banking
was primarily buyouts. And after a short
stint getting trained up on the
investment banking side of DJ, I was
asked to join the merchant banking group
and really learn the private equity
business from the ground up, how to do
deals, working with some of the great
people in the industry. gone on to run
and build a number of very notable
firms. So it was a wonderful place to
start. I ended up spending a little over
seven or eight years there just through
the credit Swiss acquisition of DJ. Got
to see a tremendous amount. As I said, I
was both on the buyout side as well as
the venture and growth equity side which
happened to coincide with the.com boom
and the.com bust. So a lot of life and
investment lessons were picked up very
early in my career. I then had to find a
new seat as it were after the credit
suite acquisition resulted in neither of
those two investment groups raising
subsequent funds. After a short stink
getting my MBA, I landed at a lower
middle market buyout fund in New York
called Founders Equity. Spent the better
part of a decade there becoming a
partner, leading deals, starting to
build my personal track record as a
private equity GP and investor. But I
had an epiphany that I wanted to be a
little bit wider than what I was doing
in the GP side. I ended up coming up
with this analogy that being a GP is a
little bit like spending the rest of
your life in your microeconomics class.
It's all about the theory of the firm.
And I happen to love economics when I
was in school. I loved my micro class,
but I also love my macro class. Being an
LP is a little bit more like sitting in
your macroeconomics class. And I wanted
to scratch that itch as well. And in
2011 2012, I had this idea that the
experience I had being a GP at this
point at three different firms doing
three very different types of private
equity investing would be very useful on
the other side of the table with an LP.
And so I set out to do that career pivot
from the GP side to the LP side and was
very fortunate to be connected with
Cornell Endowment as they were looking
to restaff their organization and they
particularly wanted to bring in some
people with direct investing experience.
So in 2012 I took over the private
equity portfolio of Cornell's endowment
and that really was the next meaningful
chapter of my career. I spent the next
12 years running that program, designing
and implementing the strategy that we
executed in private equity. I had a
great time doing it. It's a wonderful
school. It's a wonderful endowment
office. I got to watch the organization
restructure and reprofessionalize
itself. Today on a three-year basis, it
happens to have the number one return
track record in its IB plus peer group.
It's an exemplar, well-managed endowment
across the board. But I was ready for a
new challenge. With the support of the
CIO and the support of the investment
committee, I decided to hang out my own
shingle. And that was a year ago. It
ended up being what we call summation.
It really wasn't born out of a desire to
be my own boss or be an entrepreneur. It
was born out of a desire to see the good
work and the insights that we were
employing at the Cornell Endowment and
that my peers were employing at other
endowments to see that type of high
quality private equity work being made
available to other investors. And so I
had this observation that it's probably
never been easier to get exposure to
private equity, but it's probably never
been harder to do it. Well, that kind of
brings me to where we are today. Yeah. A
couple thoughts and I want to spend most
of the time where you just left off,
Roger, but just one fun observation.
When you left Cornell, Lyanna our who I
know a little bit, she wrote an article
about your departure, which was an
excellent article and it showed the very
amicable set of rules and comments and
support from both you and the endowment.
But they describe you as the longest
serving investment officer ever at
Cornell's endowment. So is the shelf
life 10 to 12 years when you seem to
have eclipsed and I don't know if that's
the normal time frame seemed like after
12 years a long time of service but
longest serving investment officer ever
I was a little surprised by yeah well
Cornell had previously had a bit of a
reputation for employee turnover and I
think they've largely solved those
issues but if you go talk to any GP and
you ask them about the turnover among
their LPs even those with high quality
relationships and Ivy League LPS in
their LP base will complain that those
people turn over remarkably quickly and
they find it a little bit aggravating
because the LPS tend to point fingers a
lot when GPS have turnover. So the GPS
find it a little bit inconsistent when
the LPS allow for a similar level or
higher level of turnover. And so having
consistency in your investment team I
think everybody would acknowledge is
incredibly important. And it's more
important the longer term horizon that
you are investing over. And so private
equity of all the asset classes in an
endowment really is the longest horizon
one. And it's the place where you really
need to have that consistency and
longevity. And it doesn't always have to
be the same person. If you build a lot
of good frameworks and institutional
knowledge into place, I think that that
consistency can survive the departure of
a person. And that's my hope for what we
built at Cornell. But you know, 12 years
in the endowment world is actually a
pretty long period of time to occupy a
position. There's always space for a
next act. And congratulations on the one
plus year of a very successful launch of
summation. I want to talk about some of
the logic and the founding reasons
behind this Roger which you just briefly
alluded to and I don't know the exact
age and date of formation of so-called
private equity but I would argue it once
was an asset class and now has become a
very complex industry and I've
referenced on this platform before a
chart that Prequin put out around the
time I entered this industry in the
early 1980s when there were 24 general
partners in the private equity space in
the entire world. So certainly if I drop
a pin there, you could very much build a
case that private equity was an awesome
asset class today and for some of the
reasons we're going to talk about it has
become a very complex industry and you
said a moment ago that really almost
today anybody including the average
investor and very soon in an ETF can get
access to private equity. They can
already in private credit. So it is
widely available but what are they
getting in return for a substantial fee
they're paying over and above what the
public markets are offering and if I
think of just one entry point for this
question performance dispersion the
median returns are largely
undifferentiated especially as you bring
it back to a PME type of ocean for the
IRR and if I look at the median return
from up to the top cortile it's
separated by thousands of basis points
So this brings up the fact that manager
access very very important due diligence
very very important thinking about not
just private equity but private equity
in the buyout space growth VC a lot of
variables in place so somewhere in there
there's a question but maybe some of
your observations about do you consider
an asset class or is it my definition a
much more complex industry now we
certainly call it an asset class but I
think one of the big shifts over the
last 10 or years was to stop thinking
about private equity as part of
alternatives grouped together with
private real estate and private credit
and hedge funds and start taking each
one of those segments of that
alternatives bucket and aligning it with
a traditional asset class and just
saying hey it's the illlquid version of
an existing asset class in the case of
private equity obviously equities we
came up with some nomenclature which we
said look that's now called total
equities Total equities is comprised of
liquid equities and private equities.
You could say you have total credit
comprised of liquid credit and illquid
credit. Same thing on real estate. Hedge
funds. We can have a longer debate on
where hedge funds should go. I want to
come back to your data point on 24 GPS
globally in the 1980s. I've tried to get
to that number when I started my career
in the mid 90s and I think it was a
couple of hundred. So already by that
time there had been some nice expansion
and access was almost impossible. I mean
very few people were able to access
private equity. So the access to where
we are today has gotten very simple to
get at least a little bit of exposure.
But now there's probably 10,000 GPS in
the market. And so knowing which ones to
go with has become a lot harder. If
they're only 24, they're probably all
did pretty well. And if you had to, you
probably could differentiate, you know,
among 24 vehicles. But what do you do
when there's 10,000 of them? And so
that's where I say, while access has
gotten easier, quality has gotten
harder. Manager selection or access is
really critical. There's, as you say,
thousands of basis points of
differentiation between cortiles within
private equity. Being able to get
somewhat reliably into the first, if not
the first or second quartiles is
incredibly important. One of the reasons
we founded summation is we just don't
think everybody in the world who wants
or should have some private equity in
their portfolio should try their hand at
manager selection. If you get it wrong
and lots of very sophisticated people
get it wrong and you end up in a fourth
quartile manager, you live with that
mistake for an extraordinarily long
period of time. We think that
intermediation level, what I call the
allocator level where you have a
professional team that is designing a
portfolio that is underwriting managers
that is applying selection knowhow is
very valuable if it's not
overpriced. One of the things I got to
do at Cornell which is really unique is
I got to underwrite something like 175
files over the 12 years I was there. You
learn a lot. It's like a surgeon gets
better at their surgeries when they have
more reps. If you ever have to go in for
something, you want to pick the surgeon
who's done it a lot of times. You get
better at this and you gain insights.
And so, I'm not trying to say that
people shouldn't pick managers if they
want to. I'm just trying to say for a
lot of people, I don't think it's the
right way to spend their time. They will
not know whether they have the skills to
do it until it's too late. So you said
something very important at the
beginning of your answer or observations
here, Roger, which I want to come back
to because I think it gets into the
heart of maybe what you're trying to
accomplish at summation and how an asset
owner should think from a Cornell
endowment down to maybe the average
person on the street, which is equity
exposure is equity exposure. And if I
think about most investors, they're
either an owner of the business, i.e. an
equity owner or a lender to a business,
a debtor. And depending on the risk
appetite, it could be one or the other.
But when it comes to thinking about
approaching equities, it's not so much
well 6040 is dead to me and now you got
to be 30 3040 which I think is a lot of
the refrain I'm hearing versus thinking
about an equity exposure and how much of
that do you want to be more liquid in
the public markets less liquid private
if you want to free up some cash maybe
use options to get exposure. So is this
6040 is your grandparents or your
parents investment model is now dead. Is
that the right conversation to be having
or should be more in line with what you
describe which I think is the preferred
method. I got to say that how much
liquidity and how much risk you want to
take. I mean that's just completely
personal to every single asset owner. I
really have no perspective on what's
right for somebody I don't even know.
What I can say is, you know, the
endowments are a nice sort of stake in
the ground. The endowments are
interesting vehicles to look at because
you can know a lot about them. They
publish a lot of their information. And
you know a lot about their duration and
their long-term nature and their
liabilities. And if you have greater
liabilities or a shorter duration, you
can know which way to adjust the
portfolio. And conversely, if you have a
longer duration or time horizon or
higher risk appetite, you can know which
way to adjust the portfolio, but there's
a lot of very smart people around these
endowments, both in the staff and in the
investment committees as well as
external advisors. And so, the fact that
they're all ending up with very similar
portfolios and very similar strategies
gives you some indication that these are
smart portfolio construction choices and
smart strategies. And so among the Ivies
where I tend to track the data or at
least I did while at Cornell what you'll
find is most of them are operating
within a 6040 to 7030 risk appetite
range but then importantly almost nobody
around that table thinks that they are
going to get meaningful alpha from
public markets. So they're really trying
to maximize their equity exposure to
private equity to both capture an ili
liquidity premium and to capture an
opportunity for alpha through manager
selection. And about where they've ended
up is that they can reliably have
roughly 50% of their equity exposure in
private equity. I really don't expect it
to go up from there. So you said before
30 30 40 and I assume what you meant by
that was your 60 was getting split in
equal parts liquid and illquid equities
and I think that's a very value
maximizing portfolio construction and if
you said no we want to take a little
more risk and have a 7030 type risk
exposure then I would say okay take your
70 divide it in two and that's about
where your maximum target for private
equity should be. As you probably know,
the endowments have led most other asset
owner cohorts in terms of how much
exposure they have to private equity.
And there seems to be a fair amount of
evidence that other asset owners like
hospitals, like insurance companies,
like pension funds, even now like
individual investors are starting to
edge up their private equity exposure in
that same direction. And eventually what
I think they will find is there's an
upper limit and the upper limit is
defined by the duration of your capital
and your liabilities. And in the case of
the endowments, you know, it's typically
a 5% annual liability which gives you a
duration of about 20 years. So 5 time 20
is 100% of your portfolio would have
been sold every 20 years. And so there's
some pretty simple math that you can do
to understand the limit of how much
private equity you should have. It's
unique for every investor and I get
asked a lot you know how much illi
liquidity premium should we expect and
want for private equity and the answer
is well you should want as much as you
can get but if you have absolutely no
need for the money for all of eternity
then you should only need a basis point
you know above public markets to
incentivize you to give up liquidity
that you're not going to use otherwise
now that's of course the most extreme
example and most investors are going to
say look I'm giving something up. I want
hundreds of ASUS points and whether it's
100 or 200 or 300 or 500 I think is the
individual's choice not us the allocator
to figure out. I can say what I think
the industry will give that other people
have to say how much appetite they have
for that. I know that you're dealing
with the ultra to high netw worth
individuals and I want to go all the way
down to the average individual investor
and then we can come back to summation.
And I know you've commented a lot on
democratization as I have too. So your
thoughts will be helpful here too. If I
talk to the average investor and how am
I defining that below the ultra high net
worth say and if I say to them why do
you want access to the private markets
and what's your expectation? A good
answer would be I want exposure to risk
premia I can't get in the public
markets. I think that's a good answer.
If people were brutally honest with that
question, I think the answer I would get
more often than not is I want higher
returns. And higher returns have more
risk attached to them. And what does
that mean on a risk adjusted basis? And
then oh, you want higher returns and as
much liquidity as you have in your S&P
500 index fund, I can make that happen
for you as well. But the more there's a
misunderstanding about expectation and
the more I'm
accommodating the the liquidity needs
when the underlying is illquid, I just
don't know if it's going to end well.
And I've got some thoughts about the
dynamics of the DC versus the DB space.
But before I get into that, am I right
in that the motivation is people think
they can get higher returns as opposed
to exposure to risk premium like the
small cap space which is largely a
private market phenomena. Now in my
opinion, I would firmly agree with you.
I mean we spend a lot of time on the
theoretic side of our financial
decisions, but we also report up to a
committee. I've got to say most people
are making actual investment decisions
on things that don't come straight out
of the University of Chicago. I would
have to believe that the median investor
is focusing on private equity for higher
returns, not for some esoteric view on
riskia somewhere. And I also share your
view that it probably is not going to
end well. And it's not that I don't
believe in private equity or believe in
private equity for the long term. You've
got to get it in the right way. A lot of
these vehicles that are coming out are
not getting good portfolio construction
and then they're layering on so many
fees that you have to imagine they're
eating up all of the incremental alpha
in the system. And I put this question
to a group of industry participants that
had gotten together to talk about
interval funds which give you some
exposure to private equity and some
liquidity. I call it quasi private
equity and quasi liquidity because it
doesn't really give you either one in
great measure. And I pointed out the
fact that while there might be
individuals in that room that were going
to do so well that their fees were going
to be worth it after fees, but on
average if the room represented the
whole industry and we could only produce
average returns as a group and we were
charging fees that were above the
illquidity premium of the asset class.
Weren't we as a group talking about
selling a product that had a negative
alpha to it relative to fully liquid
equity markets? And there wasn't a lot
of appetite to engage in that dialogue.
And perhaps the best answer I heard that
day was, well, isn't that what we do
with mutual funds? I'm afraid that the
industry is setting its target a little
bit too low to give investors what they
want on the surface, but at a fee level
that ultimately is not going to serve
them well. And in 10 or 15 years, the
SEC is going to come knocking on the
door of the industry and say, "Hey, we
experimented with this idea you guys
were pushing us towards of making
exposure more widely available." And now
10 or 15 years later, people are looking
at their IAS and saying, "I would have
been better off just being in the S&P
500. This experiment was a failure." And
so I I think that's sort of the base
case for where this is all heading. I
think Roger, if the question is why does
the industry care? Why is
democratization become such a
catchphrase? I've been reminded as I
looked up some numbers just in advance
of this call and you're going to be
either generally or specifically
familiar with this. So this is as of the
middle of last year. If anything, these
numbers may have gone down given what's
going on in the markets. But the US
retirement marketplace crossed $40
trillion for the very first time. And
interestingly, public and private sector
DB plans, which really drove the PE
space for many, many years were about
11.7 trillion of that 40. So about 25%.
DC was almost as much, 11.3 trillion.
But if you put on self-directed and IRA
accounts, that was another 14.5
trillion. So you've got of that 40
trillion just to round this up, about 25
of it is controlled by the individual
IRA for and defined contribution
combined and the DB sector is about half
of that. The Willie Sutton analogy, why
do you care? Because that's where the
money is. So clearly the machinery is
geared toward convincing those
individuals they need greater access to
the private markets that's going to fund
fund number X
+1. And I think on the plus side if
capital formation is happening in the
private markets the home of yield is in
the private markets we need to find a
way of doing this responsibly. But if
we're just going to add this to the
lineup of offerings in a 401k, so I've
got XYZ index fund, another mutual fund,
and oh by the way, here's fund X at this
GP. Who does the due diligence that is
really part of the institutional model
that you saw at Cornell and a lot of the
big DB plans have? So I think absent
that due diligence, that is a big
missing factor for this to be
successful. I do believe that there
needs to be a professional
intermediation between the vast majority
of asset owners and the GPS, the
underlying investors in the industry.
And I do believe that there should be
democratization. I'm not as cynical as
to say, hey, it's happening just because
that's where the money is. The GPS want
the money. I can tell you the endowments
would not survive very long if they
didn't have access to the returns that
they were getting in private equity. Is
there a strong argument to say this
industry should be kept small enough and
hard enough to access that only the 1%
institution of the world get to benefit
from it? I mean these are wonderful
institutions with needy missions, good
missions. They need the returns but you
know there are a lot of people out there
that need the returns and are going to
put those returns to good use. So I
think that other asset owners should
have good access to private equity. My
issue with it really is just the model
and whether they're aligned and whether
they are low cost enough that without
being heroic on manager selection which
individuals can do but the industry as a
whole has to be
average that it's a positive for the
average investor. So our model is very
focused on this. We are trying to not
cost anything to our investors above the
2 and 20 that they would pay as a
headline price to get into the private
equity industry. And so there's some
innovation that we've done on our fee
structure to try and get to a fee
neutral structure. You go and look at
your average democratization vehicle and
there's probably four, five, six, 700
basis points of extra fees in there.
That's the issue is there's maybe I
think a reasonable number for your
estimate of ili liquidity premium and
private equity is 300 basis points. As
soon as you see more than 300 basis
points of cost in your allocation layer,
you have got to be thinking that I'm now
generating a vehicle with negative alpha
and if I want to overcome that, I have
to have that much faith in the
intermediaries, the allocators, manager
selection and portfolio construction
skill. But you're starting in the hole
and that's not a great place to start.
I'd rather be starting with 300 basis
points of illi liquidity premium for
taking on the illi liquidity and then
gaining alpha because of good manager
selection and portfolio construction on
top of that. I mean that's just a better
starting point. It took me about 30
minutes to get there. But this brings us
right to the heart of summation. So, as
a transition back to my analogy that if
I'm looking down my offerings in my 401k
plan, and I have pedestrian index fund
A, pedestrian index fund B, but then
I've got son or daughter of summation
capital, that's going to be sort of my
outsource CIO for allocating to the
private markets. I should be willing to
pay a fee for that because now I've got
something. I've got an agent that's
going to help me accomplish this. So am
I right in thinking that the parallel to
summation is that if I'm an ultra high
netw worth individual, I've obviously
had a very accomplished career, I've got
a big balance sheet of investable
assets, I can pick the public index
funds quite well and decide how much
equity exposure I want. But then when it
comes to the private markets or maybe
more specifically for summation, private
equity, I really don't know where to
begin. Would it be fair to describe
summation as my outsourced CIO for the
private equity sleeve of my portfolio?
It would in practice I think that type
of asset owner that you just described.
I mean they do have some access, some
knowledge in some segment of the private
equity market. They are a successful
business person. They're a wealthy
individual or family. they know people
in the private equity industry and they
oftent times can get some access there
and sometimes it's very good. Other
times it just so happens that your next
door neighbors not a great private
equity investor but you think they are
because of what the extension they just
put on their house or some other signal
of performance that they are exhibiting.
What we tend to be for our investors is
the diversified private equity access.
And if you look at the endowments, they
place a great premium on getting high
quality
diversification. And there are very few
asset owners out there that know the
full breadth of the private equity
industry well. Everything from venture
capital to growth to buyout around the
world in all the markets in which
private equity is done. So without
making this their full-time job, and it
is a full-time job for at least a small
team, they're not going to get what I
would call endowment quality private
equity, which has that diversification
feature to it. And so what we do for a
lot of them is give them that center of
the plate high quality portfolio and
then they can do some of their own
manager selecting, angel investing,
direct deals on top of that to customize
their exposure to what is particularly
meaningful to them or whether they think
they have particular insights. But what
oftentimes doesn't work well is for
people who are doing a little bit of
private equity, but they're doing direct
deals. They're picking some funds, but
they're not building a high quality
portfolio on the one hand. They're
trying to do a little bit too much. And
we can be that outsource for that piece
of the portfolio. And then for other of
our investors, we're 100% of their
private equity. They either don't have
access or don't want to spend their time
selecting managers from among their
network or doing deals. they have other
interests in life and they just want to
know that they have a portion of their
assets in private equity that it's as
high quality as what they think a great
endowment would get which is what we're
trying to achieve and they're getting it
for a very low and aligned price and you
mentioned it earlier I believe either
directly or in passing Rogers criticism
of the private equity model is that am I
paying a lot for beta I think the
concept of paying up for alpha it's very
hard to find a perpetual alpha machine
and if I can find that person I should
be willing to pay a lot for that kind of
access if it's pure beta I can get for
one or two basis points in the public
markets why am I bothering in the first
place so I think you would said your
model is based on charging your
underlying client for alpha not beta how
does that work and how do you determine
and separate the alpha from the beta
component
I'd like to think that the endowments as
I've said are really being very
thoughtful about their approach to their
overall endowment but also to private
equity as a group. They have been in the
asset class pretty much longer than
anybody and they've done more of it as a
percent of their portfolio than any
other cohort of asset owner out there.
They've had to think a lot more deeply
about how to do it and how to do it
well. One of the things you will observe
if you look is that they pay a lot of
attention to incentive structures. Many
years ago, even the large IV endowments
outsource much of their private equity
to fund of funds. And the typical fund
of fund structure is called one and 10
and 10% is what we're really focused on.
It's the carry and it's paid on all the
profits that the vehicle generates. But
as you are observing that includes both
the beta of the market and any alpha
that they achieve. Over the last four or
five decades, the cost of equity beta
has gone from something that was
meaningful in the 80s when you started,
in the 90s when I started to one or two
basis points today. So the idea of
paying for equity beta in a portion of
your equity portfolio, the private
portion, is a little bit gling. The PE
professionals at these endowments sit
around and talk about how irritating it
is to see their GPS getting paid for
beta. And wouldn't it be great if we
could pay them for alpha? That doesn't
exist today. In the endowment world,
they're only paying their allocation
layer for alpha. Way an endowment works
is the team is hired. They're paid a
reasonable base salary, but as much of
the comp as possible is put into
performance itself. And that performance
is based on outperforming in your
portfolio relative to a benchmark or in
the entire endowment. What the
endowments have done is figured out how
to pay at least one of the layers of
this system for alpha. I got to
thinking, well, are there other vehicles
out there where if I'm an asset owner,
but I don't happen to have my own
professional team and I'm not an
endowment, but I only want to pay for
alpha where I can access that same fee
structure. And somewhat to my surprise,
after a great deal of looking, I did not
find one. And so you have this strange
world in which the largest and most
sophisticated allocators for private
equity are paying for it one way and
everybody else is paying for it another
way which I would argue is sort of on
its face inferior. That was a big
insight and motivator to founding
summation is we wanted to create a fund
structure that got people professional
exposure to private equity and
everything that is entailed in that but
only charge them for what we consider
true value ad and that is the alpha. So
the second question is okay well how do
you define alpha and we really just
borrowed straight out of the endowment
playbook. Most endowments define the
beta of the equity portfolio as some
broad-based passive index. Typically,
it's not something like the S&P 500
because these are global investment
vehicles. So, it'd be something like the
Msei Acqui World Index that defines the
beta that the endowment could have
achieved if they had not bothered to
allocate to private equity. And the
alpha is all of the returns in excess of
that. And so what we do for our
investors is we measure the performance
that we achieve for them relative to
what they would have gotten if they had
just left it in liquid equity markets
and we only take performance incentive
on the outperformance.
You're using some form of a PME. Maybe
it's the AGI. How precise do you need to
be about sector and industry exposure?
So you might have a portfolio from
venture to growth to buyout that's got
much more of a tech or maybe healthcare
centric exposure and the index may or
may not mirror that. Is that an
important part of trying to come up with
the separation of alpha and beta or is
that getting overly technical? It's
probably attempting to do something that
the tools aren't even close to allowing
you to do. So your exposures in private
equity are generated through very blunt
instruments. You can commit money to a
country fund and they might invest in
deals that are outside of that country
or a sector fund and they might invest
in deals outside of that sector. Or your
actual exposure depends on the NAV or
the underlying performance of every
single investment you have. So if you
have some allocation to tag, but then we
end up in a bull market for tag. You're
going to end up at a different waiting
than perhaps what you had targeted. So
these give us some guidelines, but we're
not trying to match the index. We're
just trying to outperform the index. To
do that, we invest in what we think are
the world's best private equity firms,
but we do it on a very highly
diversified basis. And I think it
acknowledges an inherent
unpredictability of the world. And so
yes, we may like tech. We may overweight
tech, but we're investing really
important money that has to be there far
into the future regardless of whether
that sector does great or whether that
sector ends up, you know, having
meaningful headwinds. Same thing on a
bunch of geographies. So the hard work
is not picking one or two good ideas.
The hard work is finding really
world-class managers, highly diversified
set of strategies, sectors, geographies
so that you get both the outperformance
of that manager's capabilities and the
diversification of being in that
globalized and well- diversified of a
portfolio. We estimate that you can get
a beta of about one in a well-
diversified private equity portfolio.
another interesting debate where
reasonable people will disagree. But we
think that the goal should be to have
that level of diversification that
you're not taking you're taking ill
liquidity but beyond the illiquidity
your private equity portfolio is
actually not generating additional risk
in your portfolio
and like so many things Roger in our
industry it's a marriage of both art and
science and I think being clear as to
where you're making those decisions
which you have been is the name of the
game. One last area and if we have time
I want to ask you about AI and where you
see that fitting in either at summation
or elsewhere. I think one of the
problems we still have to solve for is
the rapper and if I think about Cornell
or any large institutional investor the
draw down fund was the vehicle of choice
and they had the institutional
wherewithal to think about manager
selection. They sign on to a fund, they
make a commitment and then it's drawn
down over periods of time and capital's
returned and that's not worked so well
in the recent period with DPIs being
upside down but it's a model that is
well known to institutional investors
when it comes to ultra high net and then
individual investors. This concept of an
ongoing capital call and a draw down
structure is a very very hard thing for
people to get their heads wrapped around
to be chasing a bunch of individual
investors when the capital call was
suboptimal as well. I know the summation
has given this part of the funding of
capital commitments some thought and
just curious to get your views on that
subject. It's another good reason to
have a professional layer at the
allocator layer. Part of the work of
that layer is not just manager selection
and portfolio construction. It's the
operational complexity of having a
diversified portfolio composed of draw
down funds. A well- diversified PE
portfolio as as defined by how an IV
endowment might constructed is probably
going to have something like 50 private
equity managers and it could have
upwards of two or 300 funds from among
those investment firms. you're going to
be generating maybe doubledigit capital
costs every single month. So the
operational complexity of doing this
would be beyond the reach of almost any
individual investor. I mean you really
have to have a team processing all of
this. But what I think would work really
well for a lot of asset owners is to
have a vehicle that wraps that all up
for you in part of the work process that
the vehicle is doing so that you get
1K1 distributions. Nobody minds getting
dozens of distribution checks a month,
but ideally you should have a solution
for getting dozens of capital calls a
month. You know, some ultra high net
worths are well set up and you can
outsource the logistics behind this to
do it themselves, but we wanted to make
our vehicle available and practical to
people that didn't have that. And so I
think another part of being a really
good allocator or allocation layer is to
try and make this all very turnkey for
your investor. And so we developed a
vehicle where our investors could either
invest in a draw down vehicle with us
and manage their unfunded liabilities
themselves including the capital calls
and the processing of it. Or we could do
it for them. We do it all without
charging anything additionally. And now
what the investors do is they determine
how much of their portfolio they want
managed in highly diversified private
equity long duration assets. They hand
over to us that portion of their
portfolio. We get what we call a total
equity return on that money. So they
know it's all invested in equities at
any one point in time. But we're
incentivized to try and optimize how
much of that is in private equity versus
liquid equities. And the private equity
is where we can earn alpha and an illi
liquidity premium. So we want to get as
much in there as possible. But you've
got to be very careful. If you
overallocate to private equity, which
even a bunch of very prominent
endowments did, you can get denominators
and that's both uncomfortable, but it
hurts your long-term returns. We thought
we were very successful at managing
without getting hit with the dominator
effects during my time at Cornell.
Wouldn't a lot of asset owners prefer to
outsource the responsibility for that to
a professional allocator? And again, the
answer is yeah, I think they would. So
long as you're not charging them an
amount that would offset the value
you're bringing. We don't charge
anything for this. So we clearly think
it's an attractive proposition for our
investors.
as you think about putting that money to
work and maybe you've started summation
far enough after the end of 2022 so this
might have been in the calculus but how
important is secondary exposure because
if I think about the inefficiencies
there and getting in at maybe a very
good price point the benefits of the J
curve etc is that part of your selection
are you looking at the secondary space
we typically don't look at the secondary
space this tends to be a little bit of a
grow shark test for how people view the
market. We do think that getting through
the J curve in a smart way has a lot of
merit to it. There are other ways to do
this other than through secondary funds.
We've deeply analyzed the secondary
market and we just don't think that it
provides a lot of alpha relative to
public markets. It sounds good. It
sounds perhaps too good to be true. Our
evaluation is it pretty much is too good
to be true. Last remaining uh minutes,
Roger, and the answer is probably not
much, but just curious to know is AI a
little bit of the camel's nose in the
tent and how do you see either summation
in the industry maybe starting to use it
today around manager selection or
ongoing due diligence or thinking about
any kind of other issues from an
investor perspective and then where do
you see it going say in the next five
years? We're thinking deeply about it
both because we're investing into AI
strategies or we're investing into
people whose businesses may be
confronted with challenges or
opportunities from AI. And then we also
think about it internally like many
people on the internal side. We're using
it to enhance productivity first and
foremost. And it's not something that I
think is going to be a credible tool for
manager selection anytime soon. Time
will tell. On the investment side, it's
really interesting. I I don't think
there's any debate that it's a
transformational technology, but that
doesn't make it any easier to invest in.
And to me, it's very analogous to the
time I spent in venture in the dot era.
The internet was highly transformative.
E-commerce, which was very prominent as
an investment strategy at the time,
ended up taking meaningful market share
from bricks and mortar retail. But that
didn't make it any easier to invest in
as evidenced by the.com bust that
followed the dot com. So one of the
advantages of having been around for now
three decades is having had some of
those experiences and had some of that
scar tissue, it gives you a slightly
more informed way of approaching the
opportunity without trying not to get
burned by what may be a hype cycle.
a thoughtful observation and I agree
with you and I'm a little bit older than
you in the experience quotient nice to
know that history and mindset and past
experience still matters for something
I've always felt that the machine is not
coming for our job but the person and
the machine together is going to change
how every function in our industry is
performed and I think the smart
professional the smart investor has got
to be thinking about that on a regular
basis and you said as much a moment ago
Roger, I really enjoyed the
conversation. Happy oneyear plus
anniversary. I know that you're just
getting warmed up. I know you had a very
successful first fund and I suspect
there's going to be more to come.
Perhaps we'll have you back on in the
second or third year anniversary and
continue to learn from you. And nice to
know you've taken the very sophisticated
investment principles of a successful
endowment and brought it back to the
individual investor, albeit at the high
net worth. But some of these lessons we
can learn from models like summation I
think should be very applicable to the
average investor where they can get
access but with education transparency
and maybe informed consent from an agent
is going to be a critical part of the
successful version of that model. Bill,
thank you for having me on. It's fun to
tell the story and talk at a deep level
about deep insights in the industry. I
think there are a lot of threads we
could have pulled on a little harder had
we had more time. I would love to come
and be a guest again and thank you and
the whole Kaio organization for doing a
good job of educating the world on
proper investment principles. Excellent.
All right. All the best. Thanks, Roger.
Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's
cia.org. See you next time.
