Templates! Templates are everywhere!
They are widely used in email and
web apps because they save tons of time and
effort, but are they always safe to use?
Hey! Welcome to SecurityBites! Today we’ll learn
about template object injection. Our research
shows that this critical vulnerability occurs
in the wild and not only affects the template
rendering APIs but also the applications
consuming those APIs! Let’s take it step
by step though and start from the basics!
Behind the scenes, templates are provided
with content in the form of objects, with
template rendering APIs, also known as template
rendering engines, used as intermediaries
to insert the content into the templates.
The impact of this flaw depends on the
underlying rendering engine used. We have
verified through past cases that attackers
can take full control of a system via Remote
Code Execution. Even in cases where remote code
execution is not possible, attackers often use
template injection as the basis for numerous
other attacks such as Cross-Site Scripting,
and arbitrary file read that we covered
in our previous, very exciting episode!|
Today in our demo we feature Mailtrain.
Mailtrain is an open-source newsletter
software that is great for sending
emails to millions of subscribers.
For this to happen, Mailtrain’s rendering API
will be given an object to process. This object
contains what is blank on the email template such
as a subscriber’s email address and first name.
This vulnerability results from two
common template features. First,
when the object that is passed to the rendering
engine is an arbitrary object. Specifically,
an object that instead of just containing the
absolutely necessary data to serve its purpose,
has the ability to supply additional data or any
data to the rendering engine. By allowing such an
object to enter the rendering API, applications
can inadvertently introduce malicious behavior
by overwriting both the configuration
keys and values of the engine. This
happens due to the way the API merges
the incoming data with internal settings.
The second feature is when templates are open
to customisation in an intentional attempt to
offer richer functionality. This is very
common between content management systems
but it drastically amplifies the attack
surface if not designed with security in mind.
In this real-world example, our researcher Agustin
Gianni, demonstrated that Mailtrain was vulnerable
to template object injection. As explained,
he was able to supply an object via a URL
that overwrites the internal
configuration of the template.
This happens because of the function on screen
(router. get) populating the object
data by parsing a user-supplied URL.
Agustin used the following
URL as proof of concept,
that pops up the classic Cross Site
scripting alert on the victim's machine.
A real attacker could have used the
same technique in a phishing email,
where a malicious URL would trigger the execution
of a script aiming towards critical impact.
In the same way, the following URL could
show the contents of a file unintentionally.
A mitigation in the context of Mailtrain, would
be to strictly accept objects that only contain
the data the template rendering engine
expects, and only accept those objects.
In other use cases, we suggest separating
the logic from the presentation elements
of a template. Users will be able to
only influence the presentation element,
and this isolation will make it impossible for
a malicious actor to intervene with the logic.
However, this is sometimes unavoidable
due to business requirements.
Make sure to leave a comment below to let us
know which vulnerabilities to cover next! In
the meantime, stay in the loop by following our
twitter. Remember, quality code is secure code!
