Hi everyone.
My name is Taiob Ali.
I'm a Microsoft MVP on data platform.
Today I'll be talking about
Azure Database for PostgreSQL:
15 Essentials for Compliance and Security.
If you are using Azure Database for PostgreSQL,
doesn't matter if you're a veteran or if
you're new, you should be listening to this talk.
Okay, so let's dive in into the 15 essentials
that I'm just talking about.
And I thank you all for joining.
I hope you are enjoying the conference.
And I also want to thank Claire from Microsoft
who actually encouraged me
to submit for this conference
and helped me with a few tips about my abstract.
And also, I'm thankful to Teresa,
Isaac, and My
for looking at my slides
and checking this for accessibility.
And if you have any questions,
you can, if you're watching it live,
you can always put in the chat,
but if you're watching it later in the recording,
I'm going to share my contacts.
You can always reach out to me
and I guarantee you that
I will answer your question
within a couple of working days.
If you have any questions, comments,
you can always put it here.
I'm not going to talk about my credentials,
just take a note of my contacts
and I'll share those again
at the end of the session.
So let's dive in.
So what we will be talking about
today, we'll be talking about 15 standards
as you probably read in the abstract.
And I'll try to make a case for each one that why
you should be thinking about those standard
on particular topic out of those 15.
And I'll also give you an example of
what standard I implemented,
but that is heavily influenced by my workplace
because I work for a financial industry.
So I have certain requirements.
If you're working for a different industry,
you might not follow exactly
the standards that I'm implementing.
And that's absolutely fine.
You should be talking to your application or so
you should understand your business
and you should modify the standards
that I'm going to tell you.
And I'm also going to tell you
how I implemented the standards, right?
And I'll be talking primarily about two ways
to implement those standards.
And we'll go into a little
bit more details on those.
At the end of this session,
I'll also give you a checklist that
you should be able to download from my
GitHub repo, which I'll share the link at the end
that will summarize the whole talk
and kind of give you a checklist
that you can take with you at your work.
And you can go through the checklist each item
by item and cross those off and implement those.
When it comes to implementation of
these 15 standards that we'll be talking about.
So there'll be a few that you should be
implementing during when you are
deploying your resources,
like when you are setting up your PostgreSQL,
whether you do it through a template,
whether you do it through a pipeline,
whatever you do, it doesn't matter.
You should check those right at that time.
But after you do those, then
you can still check most of this stuff.
So the way I do it is mostly Azure policy
and other one is Azure function.
Azure policy is the best thing to do if you can,
because you can set it up at a higher level,
like at a tenant level or at a subscription level,
and it will check all your resources underneath.
But there will be situations, right?
That you cannot really do it from a higher level,
because if you have a lot of flexibility
with your standard, right?
If you give the app owners
flexibility, say like long-term backup retention,
someone need 10 years, someone need 5 years,
someone need 3 years.
It'll be very difficult to implement
this via Azure policy,
because now you have to put the policy
at a very lower, at a granular level.
That's really not the way policy work.
So in those cases,
if you see that I put both options in the slide,
you should probably look at it
as your function driven by a table, right?
So if you have a table driven,
if you have a table that has all the metadata,
that, okay, this one, I need 5 years,
this one, I need 3 years, this one,
I need 10 years or whatever.
And the function can go
and read those and check against those, right?
And if someone changed it, and so you get alert,
you get a notification, you go and double check
and fix it, either you update your table,
or you reset it where it was
where your standard should be.
And before I go further,
the other thing is for every,
all the 15 standards,
you will see primarily 3 slides.
The first slide will be talking about why should
you have a standard, what is the requirement,
or what's driving to set up a standard
across the board.
And the second slide will talk about
what I implemented based on my experience
and my work I just told you.
And if there are any exceptions,
how do we deal with it?
How do we check the standard, right?
How do we implement it?
And you'll see a third slide
which I'll mostly skip
because that will have to learn more, right?
If you want to read more about that
particular standard,
if you want to read more about the implementation,
I put some links, mostly from Learn website
that's maintained by Microsoft.
So every third slide for each standard
I'll probably skip in the interest of time.
Okay,
so why should we put
standards, right, across the board? And
basically, you know, what I just say,
you might have compliance requirement.
And the other thing is, how do you monitor,
alert, and forecast, right, a large enterprise?
If you have hundreds of this PostgreSQL,
how do you know that if something is going wrong?
How do you know that a backup is not working
or your long-term backup is not there?
How do you know that your CPU is spiking?
How do you know that there is a timeout, right?
For all of these problems, right,
if you are not going to sit there 24 by 7
to monitor all this, once you set up
these standards, your operation becomes easier.
Plus, you are also compliant
from different regulatory requirements
or your business requirements,
so it solves both the problem.
And that is why you should issue standards.
And, I wrote these 4 bullet points here,
but I'm not going to go into any further details.
If you want to know more, just reach out to me.
So the first one I'm going to talk about
is the workload type.
Whenever you deploy a PostgreSQL,
you can choose the workload type,
either development and production.
This does only one thing.
It sets up a default compute tier,
which you can change later on.
So now the question you might ask me is,
if I can change it later on,
why are you even setting up a standard?
The problem is, with the development,
if you choose,
the default tier, compute tier,
it chooses is a burstable.
And burstable doesn't have certain features
that is really
you need for a production deployment.
Like it doesn't have geo-redundant backup.
You cannot have read replica in burstable.
So I do not want in my company or at my workplace
or for my clients to deploy a production
PostgreSQL with a burstable tier.
Now, you can change it later on,
but some of the stuff that,
say, like geo-redundant backup,
you can only set this up during deployment.
So if I'm deploying with burstable later
and I want to change it, I cannot do that.
That's why I want to have a policy
from the top that any production deployment
should be choosing production.
And that default for that is a general,
but you can also change it to memory optimized.
That is why I want to implement this one.
And again, as I said, my standard is development
for non-production and for production,
you choose the production one.
And if you can standardize this,
I'm not going to say this again and again,
I already mentioned this, then policy is the best.
And this one, actually,
if you can enforce this during creation
in your pipeline, that will be the ideal.
But if you cannot,
for any reason, policy should work.
And this is my third slide that I talked about.
I'll just skip this one for each of the
remaining 14 items.
Tags.
So as you can see in the slide, I only have
two tags that I put mandatory at my workplace.
But for you, I'm not going to tell you
how many you need.
You should decide that for yourself.
Why tag?
Why should we put tag?
Tags can do a lot of stuff.
You can group your resources by tag,
by department,
by business unit,
production, non-production, UI staging,
whatever way you need for
reporting purposes and for billing.
This is a huge, huge win, right?
Because as your Azure deployment
or as your Azure footprint is going to grow,
very soon you will see that
you have to take control of your cost.
And unless you plan this from the beginning,
right, you push it to different departments
or different business units,
this will be very difficult.
Many shops at the beginning,
they think, okay, we'll centrally manage the cost.
But, as the journey begins, within a year or two,
they realize, no, that's not going to work.
Then they look at, you know, the different way
to, you know, different subscriptions
and a different way to do this.
But tags can help you big time.
One thing I'll warn you that the tags does not get
inherited from the top to bottom.
So do not think that I have this tag
at a subscription,
all my resource groups under that subscription
or all the resources under a resource
group is going to inherit those tags
automatically. No, it does not.
There is a way in the cost management
as a line item,
which is really not a tag,
and I'm not going to go into details
that you can push through that if you want,
but the tag itself doesn't get inherited.
So just keep that in mind
because there's a lot of things get inherited.
You can set that up from tenant to subscriptions
to resource group to resources,
but the tag is one item that you cannot.
Maintenance schedule. So,
if you are working on premises or in Azure,
right, things need to get patched.
Whether it's software, hardware,
we all know that even our phones get, right,
how many times you get this iOS updates.
How do you manage that?
Normally when we were in our own data center,
right, life was easy.
I could control this.
I could probably do non-prod this month,
production next month and all that.
But now you cannot control that, but you know,
it's in the hand of your cloud provider.
But for Postgres,
Microsoft actually did some awesome work
that you can somehow control it indirectly.
So there's two maintenance schedule.
One is called system-managed
and one is a custom schedule.
So for system-managed means it's any day
and any hour between 11 PM and 7 AM.
But for custom schedule, I can choose a particular
day of the week and I can choose the hour.
So I have a lot more control on that, right?
It's a lot better than
any day and between 11 PM and 7 AM.
The other good part is
any patch that Microsoft deploy,
if it's a system-managed, it gets deployed today.
But it will work for 7 days
to deploy to any servers
that has been set up with custom schedule.
So you really get 7 days of a break in between.
So for me, my standard is if you are
a non-production, you get system-managed.
If you're production, you get custom schedule.
That way I get that 7 day buffer
to do my test of the patch that was deployed.
And I can see if there's an issue.
And this one,
I think you can easily do as your policy
if you follow my standard.
One thing
I'll tell you a little bit more is
that you can get notification for these patches.
So there are 5 different ways.
I'm not going to go into details.
I have the URL.
You can go and see that
there's a menu of 5 different items
that you can get notified
depending on how you want to get notified.
Like you can even get a voice message.
You can get your,
if you're Azure Resource Manager role,
you can get email
and you can get text messages and all this.
The other thing is normally between
the two patches,
there is a gap of 30 days,
but do not count on that.
If there is a critical or emergency update,
you will get patched in between.
You can get, you know, before 30 days.
So Microsoft is not going to honor it, right?
If there is a zero-day vulnerability,
like as sometimes you see,
like even on our phones, right?
The Apple release those zero-day vulnerability
and then Microsoft does it and
you see it all over the news.
So that time
they're not going to wait for 30 days,
but otherwise if it's a normal patch process,
you will,
pretty much, you'll see a 30-day cadence
between the patches.
And there's some more resource for you to look at.
Backup retention.
This is something
we all know if you're working anything
with the data that you need to have your backups.
Doesn't matter in what kind of data you're
working on or what system you're working on.
And for this,
when you deploy a PostgreSQL, by default,
you get 7 days point-in-time retention,
which you can slide up to 35 days.
So this 35 days,
7 to 35 or 0 to 35,
you can even slide it back to 0 from 7,
you get point-in-time that you can restore.
But you can also get long-term retention.
Like at my workplace, we have certain transactions
in the financial industry that
we must keep detailed record for up to 7 years.
So for long-term retention, you can set that up
and you can keep that for up to 10 years.
In my place, we do not
backup non-production.
But again, as I said at the beginning,
a few business owners, your business partners,
your company policy,
you might even need some retention
for your non-production, it's up to you.
Production again, based on your requirement,
how many days you want point-in-time,
what's the long-term retention backup.
If there is a company standard,
you might still have some exceptions.
Like, I'll give you an example.
If there's a warehouse
that is not generating any,
it's not saving any new data, it's all getting fetched
from other systems from the company,
do you need to take transaction
log backups every X number of minutes?
Do you need to keep point-in-time for 35 days
because you can always reload?
So that's the option.
So you might have some exceptions.
And this one, again, you can use either policy
or function, what I said before, based on that.
Backup redundancy.
This is also important
because if you have a issue,
how do you restore, right?
So is your backup intact?
Can you get it from where you have it?
Is it corrupted?
So there are three different ones.
There's locally redundant,
which is default, if you are deploying in a region
which doesn't have zone redundancy.
And a zone, I'll just tell you
in a quick sentence, a zone is something,
within a region
you can have different data centers.
A zone is independent of power, cooling,
and all those.
So even within a region,
if one data center is down,
if you have zone redundancy,
it will automatically come up in a different zone.
So if you're deploying in a zone
that has zone redundancy, that is the default.
You can also set up your backup
with geo-redundancy.
It means it is going to get replicated,
your backup, to hundreds of miles away.
And Azure, if you go to our website,
you will see there is a partner kind of
region, right?
For, just to give an example,
for East US 2, the partner is Central US.
So any backup you do in East US 2,
if you have geo-redundancy,
all the backups get copied to Central US.
So what does that give you?
If the whole region is down,
you can use that backup
that was copied in a different region,
and you can restore from there.
For my standard, locally redundant
for all of our production, production we have zone
or geo-redundant based on the application,
and you can, again, policy or functions.
One thing I think I mentioned before,
I'll repeat it again because it's important to know,
you can only choose geo-redundancy
at the time of creation.
You cannot do that later on.
So just be aware of that.
Resource lock.
This is not specific to PostgreSQL.
This can be, this applies
to pretty much most of the resources in Azure.
So there's two different locks.
One is a delete lock, and one is a read-only lock.
And the name says that the read-only
is gonna prevent you from any modification,
and delete is gonna prevent you
from deleting the resource itself.
So my standard is
put the delete lock in production,
and for non-production, we use
the read-only lock.
Sorry, for, yeah.
The reason I do not wanna put a delete lock
on the non-production, because this can have issue
with your deployment, right?
If you're testing something,
if you're continuously destroying and rebuilding
through your pipeline,
I do not want to have a delete lock,
because then your pipeline is gonna fail,
and it is just gonna slow your development.
But again, how do you do this in your place?
Think about it, right?
So again, as I said, mandatory for all production,
Azure Policy will work perfect for this.
If you need exception for any reason,
make sure you document this.
That way you know that if something happens,
why there was exception,
who requested it,
who approved, just document those.
There's some more info about the locks.
Compute tier, we touched it a little bit
when we were talking about the workload type.
So there are three compute tiers, burstable,
memory-optimized, and general purpose.
For my standard at my workplace,
as I said, for non-production,
you can go to burstable because it's cheaper.
It doesn't have all the bells and whistles, which
you probably do not need for your non-production.
But for production, we only use
the other two,
general purpose and memory-optimized.
And if you need zone redundancy,
you want to be careful
before you deploy
because there is a list that I put in the resource
that which zones,
which region now allow zone redundancy.
Not every region today have zone redundancy.
Just be aware of that. And
again, Azure Policy,
and then you also
want to have non-compliant servers.
If for some reason
someone want to use burstable for production
because it's less cost,
the application is not that, it's probably
a different tier,
a lower tier that they can afford.
So just document that.
Storage auto-growth.
So this one is very tricky
because if you set it up to auto, it's perfect.
Everybody's happy.
But then it also costs you money
because if you get alert
that your storage is at 90%, you can always
squeeze the developers or the app owners.
Maybe they have some logging on,
they have some historical data they can get rid of.
But if you have auto scaling turned
on, you're not going to catch those.
So you have to decide what you want to do.
For me,
again, we talk to the app owners and we do
it case by case because there can be situations
that people cannot afford to have disk full,
cannot have downtime.
Some people, for them, if we give them alert
at 90%, they're okay to work with us.
Either we increase it manually or
they will find some data that we can purge
or put a purge routine.
There's some information about that.
Enhanced metrics.
So you get a set of metrics
that will come automatically when you deploy,
but there are 6 different kinds of enhanced metrics.
And that also doesn't include, there's
2 more called PgBouncer, and there is another one.
You can set all this up for your production
if you need.
There are different server parameters
that you have to turn on.
There's one called PgBouncer.
If you know about the autovacuum,
you can also monitor those.
So you need to decide
whether you need those or not.
In my company standard,
we turn some of those on for production.
It's optional for non-production, but if someone is
troubleshooting issue in non-production,
we might turn it on for them.
Diagnostic settings.
You can see on the right side,
at my place,
we turn it on for all production servers because
our destination is log analytics workspace.
You can send it to Storage Account.
You can send it to Event Hub.
You can send it to some of the third party
monitoring tools nowadays.
But one thing you remember
about the retention of your data.
So control that because that is going to dictate
how much money you are spending.
So the data is there for, I think it's 90 days.
And I think up to first 31 days is free.
But then after that, you have to pay for it.
And you can adjust the
retention based on your need.
Server logs.
So this is different than the logs that you saw
on the diagnostics picture.
There are two logs.
One is a server log,
and one is called an upgrade log.
By default,
if you turn it on, it retains for 3 days.
You can change it to between 1 and 7 days,
and you can download those also.
And during upgrade is very helpful.
And for your day to day,
if there's issue, you can go and take a look.
So for my standard, it's turned on for production.
But we don't turn it on for non-production.
High availability, very important.
How you can achieve this, you can do it through,
we talked about zone redundancy.
We talked about geo-redundant backup.
I'm not going to talk about those anymore.
But you can also set up read replicas.
And read replicas, you can always bring them up
as a primary if the one region is down.
So you can do that.
But again, it is going to cost you double.
So if your app, depending on your RTO RPO
if you're happy with your backup
or zone redundancy, you don't need that.
But if you need to bring that up quicker,
but that you can set up,
but your cost is going to go to double.
So just keep that in mind.
Authentication mode, you can do both.
You can do Entra only.
You can do PostgreSQL authentication,
or you can do mixed.
Entra is the best if you can do it,
because then you're not dealing with passwords.
But sometimes it will not be possible.
So talk to the business owners,
and you can do it through Azure policy.
Very easy to implement.
Private endpoint, super, super important.
You do not want your data
to go over public internet.
So make sure you implement this.
I mean, I would not go without this.
We do this for all servers.
It doesn't matter
if it's non-production or production,
because we don't want data to go over
the public access, and we disable the public access.
And Azure policy will be perfect across the board
to implement this one.
Defender, it will cost you money.
It costs $15 per server per month,
but it can give you a lot of protection.
It continuously checks 24 by 7 brute force attacks,
other abnormal traffic pattern.
You can get alerted right away.
We turn it on for all our servers,
non-production and production,
and Azure policy
will be the best to implement this.
So implementation
approach, I mentioned a few times.
I'm not going to go through it again.
During deployment, function, and Azure policy,
you can use all this.
And here are some of my links.
You can go to GitHub, my repo, and download.
And other, you can contact me with any of this.
And I thank you for attending my session.
Reach out to me
with any questions or comments.
Thank you.
