I thought they did a pretty good job.
What do you think?
>> Excellent.
>> It was awesome.
So, look, Bruce, it's been uh it's been
about 20 years since we launched our
asset management business. Um, back
then, we had a balance sheet. We were
investing in companies. We owned some
great businesses.
We were a very good investor, owner,
operator back then and we were already
pretty successful. So it was not an
obvious decision to become an asset
manager. And it pains me to say this,
but I remember when you wrote the
business plan, you sent it out to a
bunch of us and I was among a couple of
us who said, "Bruce, this is crazy. like
why would we do all this work and let
everyone else enjoy the profits of it?
So, uh you were right, I was wrong.
That's why we have this amazing business
today. Uh but I think people would
really like to hear uh why we chose to
start raising money from institutions,
investing our capital beside them.
>> Yeah. May maybe in hindsight it was uh
crazy at the time. Uh but I look I think
um
it goes back f firstly uh and you all
know this but I'm going to say it is
change is always um really
uncomfortable.
Uh but being uncomfortable is what makes
great businesses and which makes life
exciting. And um what most companies do
is they just sit around. they have a
great business and they just keep doing
exactly what they're doing.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh often people then do dumb things
and they maybe change and and uh and and
make big big mistakes. But if you can
incrementally
uh change over time um it's tremendously
valuable to evolve the business because
if you don't you end up like Kodak
uh or many many businesses um that have
happened in time but but if you go I'd
say if you if you reflect back at that
time Cyrus um probably the most
important thing that we
um have always adhered to is uh if
you're in the types of businesses that
we're in um you need scale amounts of
money and I I probably the number one
thing the reason was that um it wasn't
that we were going to really create the
asset management business that has been
created. It was that we needed access to
do the things we wanted to do and to
execute the business plan of of
internationalizing the business, going
to other countries and building out that
you needed to have access to capital.
And it was the glimmer of hope at that
time was that we could access
international pools of money on a
private basis and deploy it into these
types of assets. And um of course 25
years later the uh the it's it's a
highly
um uh uh the business is high highly
institutionalized. Then there was no
business and as you remember Cyrus we
actually had to make it up like
literally made it up as we went along.
And I look at our team now they're
highly professional and do an incredible
job. We were making it up. I'm
embarrassed. We probably have our
presentations from 25 years ago and
they're they're embarrassing compared to
what uh gets done today. Um and I would
just the last thing I'd say Sai is uh I
I I think the the two things that the
team talked about earlier which is
what's happening with retail wealth
today and what we're we'll talk about
this afternoon um uh the insurance
sector and what we're doing insurance
are two
uh similar junctures
of what's going on with our business
that are almost exactly the same as what
happened 25 years ago
>> because the retirement markets and
retail wealth were at the early early
early early innings of that change and
that's going to be like the
institutional markets over the last 25
years and and the insurance business for
us is going to be uh incredibly
uh changing to the company. So I think
both of those things are really really
exciting. Well, you you use the term
we've institutionalized uh our processes
and our business and I agree 100%. And
um one of the themes that I heard today
from everyone who spoke is you know we
have deep operating expertise
operational capability. Um and that
that's something that as I said earlier
I think we had that 25 years ago. So we
learned a lot being an owner operator.
And how do you think that's helped us
manage money for institutions and
clients?
>> Yeah, look, you were uh you were deep in
the businesses for decades. Uh what do
you think?
Well, it's it's like you said, I'd say
uh uh early on we probably didn't know
as much and over time through trial and
error and very good advice from our
predecessors,
uh we learned the basics and we codified
them. Um, we we we
created processes to make sure people
followed the right process when we
bought a business, what to do with the
business, uh, how to put how to choose a
great management team, how to choose the
right strategy,
etc., etc., etc., and how to focus on
the right KPIs. These are things at
least when I started, we didn't really
>> Yeah. And and you know I look I would
also say that um it's foundational
are uh some of the things we got right
um maybe as opposed to you could have
gone a different way um we didn't uh
change for the marketing purposes.
>> Yeah. uh when we started and and uh you
will remember and some others here in
the room that work with us over that
period would remember our marketing
people told us the only way to sell
funds is to do this.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And uh and we said well we're not doing
it that way. Our our we invest and we're
going to invest and if people want to
come to us with us they will invest with
us. And I think that was probably the
probably one of the more f foundational
things we decided to do, which was we're
in the and this is subtle, but we're in
the business of investing
>> and we invest our money and we bring
along others that want to invest with us
in our strategies. That's very different
than some money can get raised and uh
we're going to try to put it to work.
Uh, and it's it's it's behind the scenes
and it but it's it's it's it's subtle
but it's extremely important because
what it means is that we believe in
everything that we invest into. We put
our money both our money uh our other
shareholders money and our clients money
into the exact same things. and and that
that probably probably was that that's
what um that I think that's the reason
for a 25-y year track record that is is
really good and that people can invest
with us which gives us the basis to do
all the things for the future. Yeah. And
it was it was really led to we we we
actually run these businesses and we own
them and we're it's not sometimes you
get lost in the numbers but these are
just companies with people and you're
just trying to provide essential
services to people around the world.
It's not that hard but it's foundational
to make sure that you don't take stupid
risks and do dumb things uh in the
company.
>> We have better marketing people today
than back then.
Um, look, we we had the opportunity to
work with, say, the prior generation of
leaders at Brookfield and what what key
lessons do you think they passed down
that are still relevant to us today?
Look, I I think all of the things, in
fact, led by Jack Cockwell, who who um
is still on our board and he's in his
80s and uh and not actively involved,
but is uh I'd say set many many of the
things that I I think he'd be okay
hearing me. Hopefully, he's not
listening. If he doesn't like it,
>> he's listening. Uh but uh
>> Jack
>> I I would say
I I I would say that um I think he set
many of these principles. I think we
refined them, tailored them, built them,
institutionalized them and made them
better and they were um
make sure that everyone all of our
people the companies we buy are incented
uh properly that we're incented properly
and that everyone is an owner of the
business. Number two, that we only buy
things that we can understand, that we
can build and we can grow and we can be
responsible for and we we can be proud
of owning. And number three, um,
foundationally have more capital than
anybody else and build businesses off of
that. And never ever ever get yourself
in a situation where you don't have
capital when things are going down
because that's when you know this,
Cyrus, better than anyone. you've been
the most you you bought the best
businesses at the worst times
um in the markets, but we had to have
the capital to be able to do it. And and
that having capital um and never putting
yourself in a situation where you don't
where you're um uh you're not on the on
the offensive, not defensive at uh in
tough times is really really valuable.
I'd say those three things are probably
the most important.
Look, we we are uh super fortunate. We
we have a lot of people here who have
been here for a very long time. Uh and
and I think that's helped maintain our
culture immensely over many years. So,
how would you describe our culture,
Bruce, to other people? Uh
it's it it's unusual. Like it it's not
um not an easily explainable thing, but
uh I I guess I'm proud that firstly as
you go as you get bigger and bigger,
it's tougher. It's usually tougher and
tougher. And it probably is. There's no
doubt. Um because we had
10 people before and now we have 2,500
or 3,000 in our investment manager. and
it's just tough to keep the uh that but
but I I I'm I spend a lot of time in all
the offices around the world and it's
amazing the people are they're not the
same but they're similar and uh so I
think that's really important but I I
underlying it essentially we uh have a
team approach uh the team matters more
than any individual you will be
successful and be rewarded um if you're
part of a team
>> um you're uh in some way, shape, or
form, depending on where you are in the
company, whether you're an operating
person, executive, individual, you're an
entrepreneur. Uh you're an investor in
the business. We are all investors.
That's it. We But we're all
entrepreneurs and we're just here
because we have our money invested and
we feel like it's ours. It's not ours.
It's not our company. It's it's the
shareholders company, but we're all
shareholders and we all feel like it's
ours. And uh
>> think and act like an owner, right?
>> Yeah. it it and it so it just and I'd
say that that pervades the the people
within our business and and and we try
to encourage
and and many of you have heard me say
this before um we try to encourage
making incremental
I evolutionary changes in the business
because that is if you don't change you
go backwards. But what that means is
that you're always making mistakes. And
it's not um not that we like making
mistakes, but you have to accept within
the culture
um m some mistakes
and not have ramifications
of it or nobody is everyone if not
people are petrified to change and
petrified to do something new and um but
never make big big mistakes like don't
bet the farm on anything. You um know
that better than anyone. We've always
tried to keep the downside protected. Um
but but you have to push the edges or
nothing changes. You know, we we have we
have and to use the example Caner was up
here. We have the most incredible
franchise on the planet for
infrastructure. There's nothing that
comes close to it. We could just sit
aside, run our fund, and do nothing
else. And we keep pushing the edges
because
I I believe we're in the midst of this
AI revolution that is going to happen.
It's going to change every single
business in the world. It's incredible
what's going to happen. And we need to
be at the at the forefront of it.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh if we're not, we'll be behind.
Five years from now, we'll look back and
we'll be behind.
>> So, it's really really important. And
I'd say those are the I'd say those are
the things in the culture.
Look, you you talked about when we
started we had 10 20 people, whatever it
was. I I remember the entire investment
team could fit in a boardroom at one
point in time and today we have 2500
3,000 investment people. Uh Connor
talked about uh the scaling up we plan
for the future. So
my question for you is do you think
there was a seinal moment or a couple of
seminal moments or events that really
accelerated our trajectory?
>> Yeah, look I I think uh during good
times everyone excels.
During tougher times
uh Mr. Buffett always said it. You see
who the when the tide goes out, you see
who's wearing
>> underwear
>> or whatever the statement is.
>> Um I think during
uh during the tough times over the last
30 years is when
uh we've been able to at a minimum
continue to grow to continue the
business that we have.
>> Yeah.
But um but in particular in 2008, we
came out of 20089
on a very strong basis and were able to
um propel the business when everyone was
in was just they they weren't even in
business anymore.
>> Yeah.
>> Some went out of business. A lot went
out of business. Um but the others were
were not able to to to go grow fast. Um,
I think we came out of COVID, we firstly
we all went back to the office in CO. It
was the best thing we ever did. Uh,
three weeks after COVID hit, we went
back to the office and it was the best
thing we ever did because we were
working every day three weeks after CO
started. Firstly, it was more fun being
at the office and sitting at home. But,
um, uh, I think we've done five things
since then that will be gamechanging for
the business five years from now. Not a
number of them happen during that period
of time. Like our insurance business is
Satchin's going to show you later. It's
going to earn$2 and half billion dollars
next year. It was zero and started in
COVID. So, um I think those tougher
periods of time are where are where that
they're the ones that make the
difference in a business because you
either go backwards or you or you can
make great advances forward and culture
matters in in those periods of time too.
>> Um you Bruce, you you started
at Brookfield in our real estate
business. You ran our real estate
business for a long period of time.
you've seen many cycles, many events in
real estate.
Where where do you think we are today in
the cycle and what are the opportunities
that you see in real estate?
>> So, so before I answer that question, I
was I was listening to uh uh some of the
presentations earlier and I I think
probably one of the most important
things of what's going on with
artificial intelligence is that we
started as real estate investors. um
what what's being built out for
artificial intelligence is the backbone
of the global economy and really it's
just a giant real estate business and uh
because what we're doing is we're
providing
enormous infrastructure backbone
infrastructure to technology companies
and the buildout is unprecedented and
and the fact that we have power real
real estate power and data center
expertise allows us to build those
things out but it's really the all of
those things are backed off of what we
learned out of real estate.
>> And I think so I think that's really
really important when you just think
about um what we're embarking on in AI
factories because this is just real
estate. Um it sounds more complicated
than that but it it is just real estate.
If if I go to the cycles, look,
everyone knows this. I'm going to state
it. Real estate is a highly cyclical
business. It always has been and always
will be. um because it uh consumes large
large sums of money and you lever it to
get uh returns but over time you can
make a lot of money if you buy great
assets and if you um are in the right
places if the the most fundamental
things and I I would say f first point
number one fundamentals real estate
globally and most things are really
strong uh yes there's always some
extreme stuff that's out there that's
not so positive. Uh this time, this
cycle, and each one's different. Each
cycle has been different for 30 years.
Um this time, fundamentals are good. The
issue has been in the capital structures
and um and and interest rates went up
fast and went to they're not high, but
they're much higher than they were. And
therefore, people had to adjust their
capital structures to it. and those
things are sorting out in the
marketplace. But as Brian um uh said
earlier um and as Connor said in his
presentation, the the real estate
fundamentals have turned dramatically in
the last 12 months. Transaction
activities come back. Doesn't mean
everything's there, but but you can now
finance virtually everything in real
estate across the world. and the and
real estate lives on financing and uh
and and it's just turning in 100 basis
points coming off of interest rates in
the next 12 18 months. uh in the United
States, most other markets have already
turned much greater, but in the US it's
really just waiting for interest rates
and uh you will see some of that come
and and uh and drive the recovery even
further in values
>> and there aren't too many cranes in
>> there are there are no cranes. I'm going
to look at somebody. Is there a real
estate building any major building under
construction in New York City? In
London, there's small buildings in the
West End. There's nothing really under
construction in the city. What that
means is next 5 years rents going
through the roof. Retail nothing under
construction. Industrial highly move
come down. Um so um it's about supply
demand interest rates and financing and
it's all coming back. Okay. I want to
switch gears a little and talk about uh
capital markets. And I I might get the
number slightly wrong, but if you if you
look over 25 years,
25 years ago, there were 7,000
public companies in the United States.
Today, the number is something like
4,500.
>> Yeah.
>> In the private markets,
uh 25 years ago, there were 2,000
companies owned in the private markets.
Today, it's more than 10,000.
So, what's what's happened?
What's going on here?
>> Look, you and I uh own Brookfield
shares. We've never sold them. We just
keep them. We own a business.
Uh why would we sell? Why? Why? Like,
and and that's with a private business,
right? If you own a business, you own a
store. We own instead of at Brookfield,
we're going to own a store. We own a
store. We run the store. We don't look
at the stock market price of our store
every day. We don't care. We're not
selling it. We operate our store, right?
>> The stock market just distracts people.
And and uh and with the ETF market,
active management uh
in many places going down, ETFs taking
over, it changes the value of stocks and
many of them don't trade properly. That
presents enormous opportunity. I think I
we've probably taken 10 companies
private in the last 12 months. That's
going to continue to increase. We're
going to keep taking more companies
private. Once in a while, we'll take one
public where it makes sense, but by and
large, not. And I'd say when people say,
"Oh, there's going to be more IPOs."
There's not. There will be some IPOs,
but but more companies are just going to
be sold to our institutional clients and
to other sponsors. And people say, "Oh,
that doesn't make sense because some
sponsor is going to buy it from you." I
I I'd argue the opposite. It makes total
sense. Those are smart owners who want
to buy a business and own it for the
next 10 years, right?
>> Instead of taking it public, why have it
in the public market? So, I think it's
there are there'll be the global titans
that are just too large to be private,
you know, like Microsoft$4 trillion
dollar business. Of course, that's not
going to be private. And maybe that'll
trade well because it's in the indexes
uh and it's large, but by and large the
rest of it's all staying private. And
and remember
these institutional clients in
particular
when I back when we were seeing them 25
years ago, they had a big one had 80 or
100 billion dollars. But we're 25 years
later. Those institutions have 500
billion, 700 billion, 900 billion, a
trillion dollars. And a trillion is
going to end up at
in eight, eight, nine years at their
returns. It doubles.
When you have two trillion, they got two
trillionware.
>> Two trillion goes to four trillion. Four
trillion goes to 8 trillion.
This is these are staggering amounts of
money that need to get put in places.
And if you don't need the if you don't
need liquidity, own a private business.
There's no reason not to.
>> So what about you talked about
institutions. What about an individual
investor? What does it mean for them?
>> I I think people are going to end up
with uh that's why the United States is
opening up 401ks.
um they're gonna end up with 40% of
their portfolio in privates and 40% will
be in in ETFs and liquid stocks because
they should have some form of liquidity
within every portfolio and the rest of
it's going to be in private. So I I
where some will be at like some
institutions they are 50 60% in private.
Uh, I would advocate, always do advocate
to anybody that ever asks me, have
liquidity for whatever you might need,
double it because you might have a a
need that's in excess of what you ever
what you think you need. And everything
else should be in private. And that's
what's going to happen. That's what's
happened and happening in every
institution in the world. And that is
what's going to happen in retirement
accounts. So I think the you know Hadley
I think the number was 20 trillion of
retirement wealth around the world
3 5 10 15 trillion of that is going to
go into private assets and it's going to
be from real estate to infrastructure to
uh companies owned in private hands and
and they'll be better for it much much
better for it. Okay, one, we have time.
One more question. What What are you
most excited about, Bruce? You sit here
today.
>> Uh, you know, Cyrus, I get excited about
everything. Um, I look, I I uh
>> everything with a Brookfield in front of
it.
>> Yeah. I I uh I what I'm most excited
about I I actually watched our team up
here earlier and they're so much better
than you and I were. um like they're
they're uh smarter, better trained,
they've seen everything. We can help
them, but they're amazing. And so I I'm
excited about the future of what
Brookfield has because the people we
have are incredible. And uh and
therefore that's probably the most uh
exciting thing that we uh have, which is
just to watch that uh you know, the next
generation of people come along.
So, we're going to keep our shares.
>> You're definitely keeping your shares.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, SARS.
>> Thank you. All right.
[Applause]
