I'm curious if you think as we enter
this new age of geopolitical instability
on whether some of those geopolitical
forcing functions are creeping back in
and what that might mean for the
commercial forcing function, the new
geopolitical forcing function. How do
you expect all this to play out?
>> I agree with your contention there. I
think the B2G model, which is what a lot
of the original space race was based on,
does seem to be making a bit of a
resurgence, whereas I'd say the past 10
years or so of the second space race, if
we want to call that, was much more
about a B2B and and potentially even a B
TOC if you include the Starink
applications. So, it's interesting to
see all three of those cohorts starting
to overlap in ways which are
complimentary and also raise some
questions about where we might be, you
know, conflicting instead.
[Music]
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, we say goodbye to tired market
takes and superficial sound bites.
Because here, instead of skimming the
surface, we dive into the heart of
capital allocation, striking the perfect
balance and exposing the subtleties that
reveal the topic's true essence. Prepare
to have your perspectives challenged as
we open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. We've enlisted the
wisdom of visionary leaders in the
industry. And just like a meticulously
crafted wine, we'll allow their insights
to breathe, unfurling their hidden
depths and transforming our
understanding.
Welcome to season 3 of Capital Decanted
and this is episode 1, the space economy
and the new race. I'm John Bowman
>> and I'm Aaron Philbeck
>> and we are your hosts. Well, for the
third year in a row, our title sponsor
is once again our friends over at
Alternatives by Franklin Templeton.
They've really been a constant in
supporting our efforts to bring
compelling educational content to life
here at Kaya. They have over 40 years of
alt investing and over 260 billion of
asset center management. FT's specialist
investment managers have expertise
across six different asset classes. Real
estate, private equity, private credit,
hedge strategies, venture capital, and
digital assets. And of course, all of
them operate with the client first
mentality that has always defined
Franklin Templeton to help prioritize
investment outcomes. So, thanks so much
as always, Alternatives by Franklin
Templeton. Well, Aaron, we were joking
in the green room because China to date
last season is our record. But I have to
say, length aside, even space seems like
our most ambitious episode yet. Would
you agree with that?
>> I would agree. It's a wide universe.
>> It is indeed. I know I said this for
China, probably the most prep I've done
simply because I don't have an
engineering aerospace scientific
background. So, it just took a whole lot
more preparation. You have these
milestones in the back of your head, of
course, that defined at least your
parents childhood and perhaps some of
our childhood, but most of this was very
foreign. So, we're excited about this.
So, for many of you, just as with me, it
may be easy to write off space as a
fantasy. stories, as I mentioned, of
your parents' childhood. The stuff of
hokey movies and books. But the reality
is that rocket and orbital science and
the applications that they enable on
Earth are much more ubiquitous to our
daily lives than most of you might
think. Let's just be honest, most of us
drive cars navigated by GPS every day,
or we jump in an Uber, assisted by that
same mapping technology. We could door
dash dinner to our apartment where our
drivers both communicate and find our
homes using satellite technology. We
track our FedEx parcels. We check the
weather. Modern supply chain and
transportation, climate monitoring,
farming, mining, emergency response,
electric vehicles, the internet of
things, and much else are already deeply
dependent on space assets to function.
The dawn of the commercial space economy
has opened up opportunities for all of
us and is no longer a realm exclusive to
astronauts and scientists. So, the space
economy, as we'll call it through the
course of this episode, is currently
about a 600 billion US market and on
most accounts expected to grow beyond 1
trillion by 2030 or shortly thereafter.
The forecasted slope from there, of
course, begins to vary widely depending
on a combination of demand, cost curves,
and a healthy dose of imagination. But
the Bulls foresee development and
monetization in disaster forecasting and
mitigation, crime intelligence, rapid
military deployment, space-based
manufacturing, data centers and mining,
tourism, and shall I say maybe even
multilanet civilizations, and we will
certainly get back to that. Unlike the
monopolistic state-owned programs of the
past, in recent years, an entire
ecosystem of private startups and new
ventures have begun to unlock promising
new paths for investors to participate
in this next space age. Could the space
economy become as ubiquitous as the
radio, as the internet, as mobile? Is
this another platform opportunity that
rivals all the hype around AI? Well,
that's going to depend on the pace of
development and their associated
business model. So today we want to
explore the legitimacy of some of those
tailwinds that will determine how near
these future realities might be. Now the
very basics of physics of course teach
us that stationary objects need an
external force to overcome inertia and
begin moving. New markets or industries
similarly need what we call a forcing
function to develop and maintain urgency
and momentum. The forcing function of
the original space age and space race
was this one uping of the US and the
Soviet Union. And of course after the
cold war had subsided, SpaceX and
particularly Elon Musk provided a second
forcing function that disrupted the
industry and proliferated compliments
and competitors around the globe. And
shall I say maybe awaken the childhood
wonder with space that had been lost for
a generation. So is this forcing
function sustainable and enough? Is
there a new one lurking that will
catapult discovery in new nonlinear
ways? So, our path today, which
unfortunately you cannot track even by
satellite GPS, I'm afraid, is as
follows. So, first I'm going to help us
understand the history of rocket
development, space exploration, and
technology advancement. As with a primer
on any formative industry, it's
important we equip and ground ourselves
with how we got here and what are the
lessons of the past that influence
current state, particularly when it
comes to those forcing functions I just
mentioned. Aaron's going to then spend
some time sizing and segmenting today's
space economy, which is way more complex
and interesting than it ever has been.
And it's going to help us understand
what future applications, some of which
I've just hinted at, might be on the
horizon. And then we'll address the
elephant in the room, the wobbly state
of geopolitics around the world, and
whether a new space race is emerging.
It's a modern but delicate space race
that could near Star Wars level orbital
conflict or cooperation that could be an
exemplar of multinational peace. So,
we'll have to see that play out. All
right. Now, before we jump in, you might
have remembered if you listened to the
teaser that we're going to experiment
with a slightly different format this
year. So rather than discrete interviews
in some cases with guests that can help
us bring to life some of these topics,
we're going to start interspersing some
of those clips and conversations in the
context of the narrative. And I hope
that leads to a more continuous story
that is helpful for both us and you as
we journey together and better
understanding these topics. So today,
what you're going to be hearing from
different parts of this conversation are
the result of conversations that we had
with two individuals that know this
space economy very, very well. The first
is Luke Ward, who is an investment
manager at Bally Gford, which is the $29
billion pound investment manager that
spans both private and public assets,
and Emma Norchett, who leads the private
tech investing business within their
Troll Prices private equity business. So
again, a very diversified asset manager
here in the states that spans all types
of asset classes and all stages of
equity investing. So again, you'll be
hearing from them at different times
during this episode, and I assure you
that you will benefit from some of their
wisdom and their experience in investing
across many of these companies that we
allude to through the course of this
study. So with that, Aaron, you're a
bit, I hope this doesn't offend you, of
a space geek, at least in your pop
culture choices. I have to imagine
choosing this as our inaugural season 3
episode was awfully exciting and
personal to you.
>> It was. And you're right. I am a bit of
a sci-fi nerd. So whether you're talking
Star Wars, Star Trek, even maybe in the
spirit of this episode, The Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy, which is what we're
attempting to do throughout the episode,
this was really exciting for us to
tackle. I'm very glad we're doing this
during the season. But I also grew up a
lot around uh space and astronomy and I
remember being a young kid and going to
the planetarium with my parents and
brothers. So this has always been a
fascinating topic even before I became a
bit of a sci-fi nerd. So this is great.
I'm really excited to dive into this.
>> Just as a disclaimer for the audience, I
do not condone the identity of Aaron,
which is this rare occurrence of
schizophrenia where people claim to like
both Star Wars and Star Trek. It's
similar to saying, "I love the Red Sox
and the Yankees." So, we'll just leave
it at that. I love most of Aaron, but
he's got some major flaws, and this is
one of them.
>> Well, lucky for you, John, I'm not
accepting any criticism at this time.
>> Well, we've got a whole lot to go, so
buckle up. You see, I'm wearing my
sweatshirt, my Metroid sweatshirt.
>> I did.
>> I thought you'd appreciate that. Second
best video game of all time. So, let's
get started. Fun aside, we're going to
dive in. So, history, our story, or at
least my version of the story begins at
the turn of the century when an English
author HG Wells publishes The War of the
Worlds. Erin's nodding and laughing. I
always surprise him with where I'm going
to start, where I'm going to originate
these deep dives. So, War of the Worlds
was a science fiction novel about an
attempted invasion of Earth by beings
from the planet Mars, which is a rather
ironic home planet for this episode, as
you're going to see a little bit later.
Now, to be fair, War of the World
certainly wasn't the first science
fiction novel. Authors as famous as
Jules Vern had written about space
travel 30 years earlier in the middle of
the 19th century, but the popular
serialized publication in both the UK
and the US, followed by the book itself,
incited new public fascination with
space travel. The idea of
extraterrestrial life and the spirit of
exploration. But the story would only
take on legendary status about 40 years
later, just before the dawn of the
Second World War in October of 1938,
when CBS, I think it's fair to say,
infamously, aired an adapted dramatic
storytelling of War of the Worlds. And
it was positioned as a series of
breaking news stories by a young Orson
Wells, who of course would go on to be
one of the most iconic radio and film
personalities in history. This really
made Orson's career. But the breaking
news structure and segmentation of this
dramatic storytelling about the invasion
actually confused a portion of the
population that it was real at one point
that New York City had actually fallen
to the aliens. As you can imagine, it
set off a widespread panic and frankly
the jury is out about whether this
social experiment about the manipulative
power of media was necessary or
beneficial. Aaron, I think you could say
that this was the first fake news.
>> Indeed, you could.
>> So that is far from new. So around the
same time leading up to World War II,
the Germans, Americans, and Soviets all
were experimenting with small liquid
fuel rockets for scientific purposes.
But after the invasion of Poland, less
than a year after Orson Wells famous
broadcast, the Germans significantly
accelerated their innovation in
weaponizing these rockets to create
larger ballistic missiles. The Nazis
would in fact create the first long
range guided ballistic missile that they
called the B2. These were the first
supersonic missiles that would cross
over what's called the Karman line. So,
okay, pause. This episode's going to
require a lot of definitional work. It
did for me in the preparation. So, we're
going to try to aid you and hold your
hand along as we go. The Karman line is
largely considered the edge of space and
it's an altitude of 100 km above Earth.
That's about 62 mi or 330,000 ft. So
think of it as about 10 times higher
than where we fly our larger commercial
planes today. So the V2s were the first
rockets or any artificial object for
that matter to travel in space above
that Karman line. And over 3,000 V2s
would be used to pummel the Allied
forces in London and Paris and Antworp
and other cities before the tide turned.
So after the war, you could imagine that
Germany's huge advantage in rocket
technology was deeply attractive to the
Allies. So as such both the US and the
USSR acquired custody of German rocket
development assets, scientists,
technicians, files. In fact, the US
would run a very controversial
intelligence program called Operation
Paperclip. This needs to be made into a
movie. And this was where 1600 Nazi
rocket scientists, technicians, and
engineers, including Wernern von Braun,
remember that name, who's the
co-developer of the V2 rocket, were
seized and brought to the US. Operation
Paperclip would go on to be the catalyst
that fueled aerospace innovation in the
US and both military arms and yes, the
entire space program that would
culminate in the Apollo lunar program
two decades later. Some public interest
in space flight after the war was
further aroused in the early 50s when US
Collier's magazine published a series of
seven articles called Man will conquer
space soon detailing Warner von Bronze,
there's that name again, plans for crude
space flight. In March of 1955,
Disneyland's animated episode Man in
Space, which was broadcast on US
television to 40 million people, further
raised public and government interest in
the subject. Well, Kier's magazine was
right about von Braonn and the US
government aspirations for a crude space
flight. And the literary glamour of
space was about to get very real in many
ways. and to find the beginning of the
most intense chapter of the Cold War.
And this combination of fear, national
security, and drive for symbolic
superiority would serve as that powerful
first forcing function for the space
race. And then it happens, Aaron. On
October 4th, 1957,
Soviet Union launches the first
satellite into orbit. Of course, I'm
talking about Sputnik. The Sputnik
moment of all Sputnik moments. The
satellite sent radio signals back to
Earth for only 3 weeks before its
battery died. But really, it didn't
matter. The Soviets had struck first.
They had taken the lead, dramatically
showcased this to the free world with
their superiority in scientific space
achievement. And to put it mildly, the
United States was just stunned.
Eisenhower, in particular, was frantic.
He at first tried to downplay the
significance of the event. But once it
was clear the country was in a state of
anxiety and fear over the Soviets using
that technology advantage for military
threats against America, he knew he had
to act to calm the panic and perhaps
steal back the narrative. So
Eisenhower's response was three-fold and
these are really important
groundbreaking foundational elements of
what would define the future. First, he
authorized formation of what we now call
the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency or DARPA to develop emerging
technologies for the US military. Now,
if you're not familiar with DARPA, to
put their influence in perspective, The
Economist, the magazine later dubbed
DARPA, quote, "The agency that shaped
the modern world." End quote. With at
least credit for discoveries and
innovations such as Madernas, CO 19
vaccination, weather satellites, GPS,
drones, stealth technology, voice
interfaces, the personal computer, and
yes, the internet. Sorry, Al Gore.
That's a pretty darn good resume. It has
been the heart of US government R&D for
70 years. So that's number one. Second,
he signed the National Aeronautics and
Space Act, the creation of course of
NASA. Now beyond the name recognition,
the greater importance here is that it
consolidated all space related R&D to
one agency. Why is this significant?
Well, much later it was declassified
that the Juno rocket, which was a mashup
of technology from previous US
technology and what they were learning
from the V2 rocket from Germany, was
ready to launch the first US satellite
Explorer 1. Get this, Aaron, as early as
1956. That's a year before Sputnik. But
unhealthy interfighting and selfish
rivalry between competing rocket
programs of the Army and the Air Force
paralyzed the program and delayed the
launch. Now, you might imagine as the
five-star general and supreme commander
of the Allied Force, Eisenhower knew a
thing or two about alignment and clarity
of purpose. I have to imagine that this
enraged him. So, he forced the military
to centralize and transfer all space
related activities to NASA's George C.
Marshall Space Flight Center under its
inaugural director, von Braonn. Yes,
again, the former Nazi lead scientist.
So, that's two. Finally, the third major
pillar of Eisenhower's response was that
Congress passed the National Defense
Education Act. It was a 4-year program
that poured billions of dollars into the
US education system to deepen
engineering curriculum with the goal to
produce worldclass engineers and
scientists. So, after a first failed
attempt to try again only 2 months after
Sputnik, the US finally was able to get
the aformentioned Juno rocket off to
deploy their own satellite Explorer 1.
But the Sputnik moment beyond policy and
regulation also commenced a tit fortat
game as each meaning the Soviets and the
Americans aimed to be the first to
achieve every new space accomplishment.
The Soviets surprised the world and beat
the Americans once again. This time in
sending humans into orbit. On April
12th, 1961, Yuri Garurin was launched
for a 108minute orbit around the Earth
in a craft called Vastic 1. Just like
with the runner up with the satellite
launch, the Americans had a parallel
program to urgently get a human into
space called man in space or the acronym
miss. Well, that name MIS got a bit
awkward after they were bested again and
the program was renamed project Mercury.
So, almost a year after the Soviet Union
put a human into orbit, astronaut John
Glenn became the first American to orbit
the Earth in February of ' 62. His
Mercury Atlas 6 mission completed three
orbits in the Friendship 7 spacecraft
and splashed down safely in the Atlantic
Ocean. So both Gargarin in Moscow and
Glenn in New York City were given
parades and became national heroes. Now
fast forwarding, as we all know, JFK
upon his election in 1960 would raise
the stakes even more by including the
exploration of space and explicitly
landing on the moon as part of his
campaign platform and all too short
sadly his legacy. At a Rice University
speech in the fall of 1962, which is
about a year before he was assassinated,
he famously exclaimed, quote, "We set
sail on this new sea because there is
new knowledge to be gained and new
rights to be won, and they must be won
and used for the progress of all people.
We choose to go to the moon in this
decade and do the other things, not
because they are easy, but because they
are hard." End quote. So this height of
the space age was driven by a
combination of national pride around two
competing worldviews, capitalism versus
communism, certainly strategic aerospace
technology advancement and obviously a
bit of bravado to boldly go where no man
had gone before. And that would continue
for the next 30 years really until the
collapse of the Soviet Union. However,
this geopolitical forcing function as
powerful as it was for a time did not
have an incentive or case for economic
gain or sustainability. There was no
real business model in the lexicon or
the framing of these pursuits and it
resulted in massive enormous budgets.
Now to be fair, there were a couple
inklings of commercial opportunity
during this period of development in the
'60s, mostly on the broadcasting side.
The most notable was the first
geostationary communication satellite,
SinCom 3, which was launched in 1964 and
was used to telecast the 1964 Tokyo
Summer Olympics. But I would categorize
these more as novelty than grand vision
at the time. So we need another pause
here quickly Aaron for again some
definitional work. I just mentioned the
word geostationary to describe the
sincom satellite. What does that mean?
Well there is a critical distinction
that we need to separate here that's
going to take on much more relevance in
the story as we approach recent history
and some of the commercial players like
SpaceX and Blue Origin. There are two
orbits to oversimplify this. There are
two orbits to keep in mind that offer
distinctly different advantages and
disadvantages for satellites and other
space economy applications.
Geostationary Earth orbit or GEIO GEO is
much farther away from Earth, 36,000 km
away or 22,000 mi. This positioning,
which is common for all early
satellites, and still most broadcasting,
think Direct TV, SiriusXM radio, offers
a continuous view because it's so high
and connection of a broad geographic
region. And it orbits the Earth at the
same rate as Earth's rotation. So, in
24-hour periods, that's why they
actually appear, these geostationary
satellites appear stationary. They are
moving at the same rate as us. In
contrast, lower Earth orbit or LEO is
only 400 to,200 km above Earth. Now
remember earlier we learned that the
edge of space, the Karman line is at 100
km. So this area LEO is in many cases
barely in space. But the advantage here
is that the latency, the clarity of
signals, the high resolution imagery is
much crisper and reliable because of
course you're significantly closer.
However, in order to provide
applications through these satellites,
you need large clusters or
constellations of satellites instead of
just one as they rotate the Earth at
that height at much higher speeds. So,
these clusters of LEO satellites can get
around the Earth in 90 minutes or less.
LEO constellations are the mechanisms
for which high-speed internet and high
resolution mapping occurs. LEO is where
Starlinks satellites operate, the Hubble
telescope, and where the International
Space Station lives. Now, interestingly,
GPS services and data that sell to our
Apple Maps or Google Maps or Ways
operate somewhere in between, sometimes
called Middle Earth orbit or MOO. But
there you have it, a quick overview of
distances from Earth's and the various
orbits. So, let's return to the story.
So, Kennedy's grand vision of walking on
the moon manifests itself with Neil
Armstrong's one giant leap for mankind
in July of 1969. And the United States
Apollo Lunar program would have 17
missions between 68 and 72 with six of
them landing humans on the moon surface.
And by the way, America is still, this
shocked me, America is still the only
country to this date to land humans on
the lunar surface. And the human race
hasn't been back to deep space for 50
years. Let that just percolate as we'll
return to that in a few minutes. Now,
you've probably sensed that the tide had
turned in the space race significantly
over the last decade as America, thanks
to Eisenhower's decrees and Kennedy's
vision casting, the US had flexed its
muscles and it was clear that the
Soviets were now a distant second by the
mid70s. In fact, there's some evidence
that Cruchev and Kennedy were moving
towards Dayton and space cooperation
before Kennedy's assassination. Cruchev
famously has been reported to have wept
over Kennedy's death. as despite the
scary staredown over Cuba, they had
built a growing trust and appreciation
for each other. Well, needless to say,
Cruchev did not feel the same way about
LBJ, and therefore, the space race and
the underlying forcing function
continued unabated. But in the mid70s,
the competition felt more like a fourth
quarter blowout than a rivalry any
longer. And many suggest that the
enormous capex required to maintain
leadership in rocket technology was
beginning to the Soviet Treasury
and stress the system. In fact, many
consider the closing act of the cold war
era of the space race to be the deeply
symbolic rendevous and docking of a US
and a Soviet astronaut crew in 1975.
This came on the heels of a thawing of
tensions negotiated a few years earlier
between Nixon and Cruchev. And this
handshake and docking telecast the two
crews shaking hands, exchanging gifts,
visiting each other's ships. So with the
Soviets largely waving the white flag on
what had been almost 20 years of, as I
said earlier, one upsmanship, NASA's
sense of urgency diminished and their
goal shifted. Gone were pressing the
frontiers of space exploration and the
priority shifted to low Earth orbit
launching of satellites, as I said, work
on the Hubble's telescope and as we'll
get to in a minute, both the assembly,
servicing, and transportation to and
from the International Space Station.
This was transitioning to a shipping and
transportation business. and development
at NASA obviously under these new
priorities evolved or maybe you could
say devolved from deep spacecraft
capsules and landing modules to payload
and cargo optimization and of course all
of this transformation resulted in NASA
with manufacturing contracts with
Rockwell Northrup Grumman and others
setting out to design the first reusable
lower earth orbit what they called quote
space truck to serve as the vehicle for
space logistics and this of course was
the space shuttle program. Between the
five shuttles that were built and the
30-year program until their retirement
in 2011, 135 missions of the space
shuttle were flown. Now, I mentioned the
International Space Station a moment
ago, which was a major part, perhaps the
primary role of the space station. Think
of the ISS as a floating orbiting
scientific laboratory. It is a joint
venture and collaboration between five
major global space agencies, NASA of
course, and its equivalents in Russia,
Europe, Japan, and Canada. and it has
been continuously inhabited for 25
years. It took nearly 10 years to design
a nearly 36 space shuttle trips starting
in 1998 to bring all the pieces up and
parts to assemble this monster in lower
Earth orbit. By the way, this is only
about 400 km from Earth, barely even in
LEO. Now, while the space shuttle
program is serving as the primary
expression of space activity for NASA
through this period, there were
seedlings of commercial attempts at
creating viable business models. And yet
most of them were dramatic fairy tale
failures. In 1980, perhaps most
importantly, Aryan Space was a joint
venture between Airbus and a French
aerospace company called Saffron. Aryan
Space was the first commercial launch
provider. This is really important in
the world and an influence on many of
the contemporary commercial providers
like SpaceX. While much more of a
marginal player now, as recently as
2016, just before SpaceX really began
solidifying their contracts for launch,
Aryan Space still controlled 60% of the
launch market. I think it's fair to say
that they were probably the first true
commercial space business. But shifting
to the more fabled stories of excess and
irrational exuberance, the fun ones, the
rise of the internet and.com mania led
to several attempts at building
satellite communication companies that
would provide global coverage. Teldisc
was founded in the '90s and backed by
Bill Gates, McCall Cellular, and the
Saudi prince with the intent to build a
broadband satellite internet
constellation. Sadly, not one satellite
was ever launched, and they were shut
down in 2002. Global Star was another
high-profile attempt at satellite phone
service given its participants. It's a
joint venture between Laurel, which is
defunct defense contractor, and
Qualcomm. They received funding from
Alcatel, Air Touch, Deutsche Aerospace,
Hyundai, and Vodafone. These were big
names with grand plans or perhaps
delusions of grandeur because Global
Star declared bankruptcy also in 2002.
But the Hall of Fame winner, Aaron, in
this period is the story of Aridium.
Just a quick search on the Aridium lore
will result in case studies at Harvard,
Dartmouth, Thunderbird, Stern, and many
others. This is taught everywhere in
business school. Largely funded by
Motorola, Aridium took its name because
the metals, Aridium's atomic number is
77, which is the number of satellites
originally planned for orbit for this
mobile phone communication system. The
infrastructure was almost a decade
behind and several billion over budget
and became one of the largest
bankruptcies in history and truly one of
the iconic symbols of the dotcom bubble.
By the way, you can still view some of
those early bricksiz phone devices in
the Smithsonian. And much more
amusingly, and this needs to be a
favorite on your browser, the Museum of
Failure, which is an awesome site, by
the way, and I got lost deep in that
site. So, as with most web 2.0 0
services broadband fiber online food
delivery and many other.com chapter bus
mobile phone networks were not an
inherently bad business model or insight
tadic global star I aridium I would say
were just about 20 years too early the
technology and particularly rocket
launch cost structure at the time simply
prohibited economic opportunity but the
lessons and the models they display
despite the caricature would set the
stage for other players namely Starling
much later. Okay, the final piece of our
background in history here that really
created the environment for the rise of
the commercial space economy that I've
started to tease were two interwoven
threads. And these patterns,
progressions, and sadly tragedies work
together to cultivate a new environment
where privately funded space startups
could raise capital, sustain themselves
economically, and ultimately thrive. It
was the intersection of significant
changes of public sentiment and
regulatory support that would lead to an
astounding new phase of innovation. So
the first of these two was the
progression of bipartisan regulation and
legislation designed to encourage and
support commercial space activities. In
1984, the Reagan administration approved
the commercial space launch act that
provided legal indemnification for
commercial launches and empowered the
department of transportation to oversee
commercial launches and relationships.
The legislation was designed to foster a
robust commercial space industry by
providing finally a regulatory framework
for private companies to conduct space
launch services and build tighter
coordination between public and private
entities. In 1998, that same act was
amended with an aim to explicitly
promote the development and give
preference to the commercial space
industry. That emphasis was mine. It
required NASA to study and consider
commercial opportunities to service the
International Space Station and other
federal agencies to transition to using
commercial space transportation
alternatives. So compared to the 84
original bill, this was much more of a
progrowth statement to facilitate
private sector leadership. I think it's
even fair to say instead of government
funded activity in these advanced space
technologies. And finally in 2004, the
space act was further adapted to add
commercial human spaceflight activity
and George W. Bush began formally
advocating at that time for the
retirement of the space shuttle program
and for full dependence on commercial
players. So that's the regulatory
trajectory that smacked a bit of
government capitulation due to the
bloated cost and evaporated geopolitical
motivations, but also I think a
realization that the private sector
could probably do this a whole lot
better. But there was a second threat
here, a much more morbid and tragic one
that also played a major role in the
public's psyche. And that was the
disasters and losses of two space
shuttles. 1986, of course, the
Challenger explodes during launch,
horrifically on live national TV,
killing all seven crew members. And then
in 2003, a repeat, the Colombia
disintegrates upon re-entry, also
killing the seven astronauts. You
remember the 2003 one, Aaron, by chance?
>> I do. That was a big moment. Everyone
has that list of historical events, that
list that you wish you could erase from
your memories. For me, the Challenger
was one of those visceral lifetime
moments that is seared in my
consciousness along with Reagan getting
shot, 9/11, the invasion of Iraq was in
the middle of a high school basketball
game, Princess Diana's death during my
first internship, and more recently, of
course, the day CO shut down the world.
for the challenger. I was in the sixth
grade and all of our classes were
literally all the classes in the whole
elementary school were literally sitting
in the auditorium watching this
together. You might know that it was the
first ever teacher to be on that shuttle
launch, Christa McAuliffe. So there were
classrooms and children across the
country that I think were overly
interested in particular with this
shuttle launch because a teacher was on
there and we were all tuning in around
the country. I remember my math teacher,
Mrs. Kavitzky, sobbing having to leave
the room. It was just a really sobering
sad day. The American public and to some
extent the world were left stunned and
it led to widespread public mourning.
The shuttle program was temporarily
halted. But more importantly to our
story arc here is that these disasters
had a profound effect on the public and
political appetite for further space
exploration. Reagan canceled his state
of the union scheduled for that evening
and instead addressed the nation from
the Oval Office. There was an outcry
from the public and Congress for much
more stringent safety and regulatory
oversight of launches. Risk-taking
advancement gave way to an era of
conservatism. All this is to say is that
the combination of all these factors was
rapidly reducing the forcing function
that had driven the space economy for
decades with the removal of the Soviet
competition, the transition away from
deep space exploration to lower orbit,
somewhat pedestrian transportation
activities. And by the way, those
transportation activities were
increasingly by commercial players that
were largely out of the public eye and
also the relative souring towards NASA
based on those explosions. Motivation
and incentive had eroded. The romance of
the stereotypical 60s and 70s child
desiring to be an astronaut was largely
gone. Not only that, the perception of
economic opportunity for space activity,
as we talked about earlier, had become
caricatured in failures like Aridium. So
was further space activity moving to
just mere mythology? Costs continued to
balloon as there was no incentive to
innovate or disrupt. In fact, all these
contracts from NASA, rockets, boosters,
man shuttles, capsules were all awarded
on what's called a cost plus basis.
Meaning these contractors, mostly
aerospace companies, had zero incentive
to meet deadlines or to be fiscally
responsive. Their margin was secure and
got bigger, frankly, the more the cost
overruns occurred. space programs
budgets peaked at 1% of GDP and almost
5% of the federal budget. Neil deGrasse
Tyson the author and scientist has this
famous tweet in 2011. I don't know if
you saw it Aaron but when the shuttle
was retired that captures this
confluence of events and feelings
perfectly. He said quote or he tweeted
rather quote Apollo in 1969 shuttle in
1981 nothing in 2011. Our space program
would look awesome to anyone living
backwards through time. The space
shuttle was more expensive than the
Saturn rocket launches of the Apollo
missions. We hadn't sent anyone past
lower Earth orbit since the Nixon
administration. The space program, as
Tyson said, was going backwards.
Discovery and progress had atrophied. It
was an industry, if you can even call it
an industry in this chapter of history,
that sorely needed disruption,
reinvigoration, perhaps even rebirth.
You needed a champion that could
resurrect a new forcing function. as the
old tailwinds and the marvel of
Americans had completely stagnated on
space. And into that void steps a young
South African tech entrepreneur. That of
course would be Elon Musk. Quick
commercial break. Now for you listeners,
we need to remove any immediate
political, social or moral feelings that
you have towards Elon. If necessary, try
to set aside the much more recent Doge
Elon or even Twitter Elon. Because
regardless of what we or you personally
think of the man, there's no denying by
some combination of brilliance, passion,
and unrelenting determination, Elon and
eventually SpaceX would take the matter
into their own hands and provide the
next and muchneeded forcing function. So
in late 2000, so 25 years ago, the rest
of the PayPal mafia, as they're called,
that's among them Peter Theo, Reed
Hoffman, and others push Elon out of the
founding leadership group and the CEO
seat of the digital payment company,
much to Elon's dismay. Now, if you know
anything about Musk, he is constantly
seeking new challenges. Let's just say
this guy doesn't vacation well. He
doesn't like free time. And this is
pre-Tesla, just to ground your timeline
bearings. though there wouldn't be a
liquidity event on PayPal for a couple
more years when they IPOed. But Elon did
have some resources, about 22 million in
fresh cash through the sale of his first
startup, Zip 2, that he sold to Compact
in 1999, that he needed to put to work.
Now, Musk, like most of us in his
generation, as Aaron and I joked in the
introduction, grew up with Star Wars,
Star Trek, Alien, Space Odyssey, A
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, space
comic books, in particular to Musk. And
so the adventurer in him, the astronaut
worship with him were still strong. By
the way, Aaron, do you even know why he
called his first SpaceX rocket the
Falcon?
>> I don't.
>> Can you guess?
>> Does it have something to do with one of
the MCU? I don't know. I really don't
know.
>> That would be after Hans Millennium
Falcon.
>> That's good. Does he have a Star Trek
name in there as well? You got to keep
it balanced, you know.
>> Well, Starship we'll get to. I think
that's probably inspired by your
favorite, not any Elsa's favorites. But
so Elon talked with great reverence at
the time about the Apollo
accomplishments, but lamented the
chronic malaise since. In other words,
we went to the moon and that's it. Did
we really peak with those bootprints on
the lunar surface five decades ago? Buzz
Aldrin of Apollo 11 captured this
disillusionment with the death of the
space age when he said in 2012 you
promised me Mars colonies instead I got
Facebook end quote and so Musk
channeling Aldren begun to be fascinated
with creating a multilanetary human
civilization particularly on Mars and by
the way this whole story is taken from
Walter Isacson's biography of Musk that
is truly a must readad we've linked in
the show notes but I would encourage all
of you to read it Elon says at the time
quote the United States is literally a
distillate of the human spirit of
exploration. This is a land of
adventurers. That spirit needs to be
rekindled in America, and the best way
to do that would be to embark on a
mission to colonize Mars." End quote.
Now, let's be honest. Whether that
ultimate goal is ever realized or driven
by some portion of God complex that Elon
has is almost irrelevant as the forcing
function of that higher singular focus
that big hairy audacious goal which you
might say is the bee hag of all bee hags
to get to Mars unbelievable to most
massively seductive and inspiring to
others. It plays a huge role in
regenerating the momentum. This higher
purpose of Mars inhabitants once
formalized in SpaceX would allow Elon to
attract the most extraordinary
engineering talent in the world. acutely
align around a destination and a goal,
whether fantasy or not, and relentlessly
drive cost cutting and discovery to get
there. Tren Griffin, who is a senior
Microsoft executive, recently said on a
business breakdowns podcast that was
fantastic. He described this confluence
of breakthroughs that Elon ignited as a
quote laooa of opportunity. He was in
the right place at the right time with
the right dream. stagnation had ended
and the forcing function, the new
forcing function of the commercial
chapter of the space economy was born.
And Isacson tells this amazing story of
how Mus first through some mutual
scientific acquaintances is able to meet
with Russians in Moscow in 2002 that are
running a black market on decommissioned
Soviet rockets. You literally cannot
make this up. He went there twice. Musk
feels like the Russians are trying to
gouge him. remember he only has 22
million and they're asking nearly that
whole amount for two older rockets. So
he declines. He brustly ends the
meeting. But then on the flight home he
puts together a spec sheet, an inventory
of all the parts of a rocket and their
costs. And he's basically learns this
self- teaches himself by just thumbming
through old Russian rocket manuals and
through what later famously would be
known as Elon's idiot index. He
calculates the difference between the
cost of a finished product and adding up
the cost of all the material component
parts. This was the first principles and
hyper pragmatism playbook that Elon
would employ countless times at both
SpaceX and of course Tesla. In the end,
his spreadsheet suggested they could
build a rocket for 150th the cost of
what the Russians were charging. This
dual epiphany of the very steep cost
curve that Elon could surf and the
software build principle of move fast
and break things he learned at his
startups convinced him this audacious
plan might just work. He had found the
secret sauce to convert this
conservative old model of Washington
controlled bureaucracy to a fail fast
continuous feedback loop common on San
Hill Road. And so on that return trip
from Moscow SpaceX was devised. So
before I finish off this final recent
chapter of SpaceX Blue Origin, the
entrance of China and India over the
last decade, I want to quickly hand to
Aaron here to break down the cost curve
mechanics of SpaceX. This is the
critical ingredient in moving these
activities from novelty to business. In
fact, this step function decrease in
cost structure not only allows for more
self- sustaining current LEO activities
that were these huge cost centers as we
talked about for the government, but
more excitingly, it allows us to begin
imagining completely new space economy
industries or even moving existing
ground economies off Earth into space.
And if that's true, it fundamentally
changes the trajectory of our investment
thesis. So Aaron, help us break down
what SpaceX figured out on the cost
side.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And it's so funny to
talk through some of those examples in
the '9s of being one, two, three decades
early relative to what we see today cuz
I think that's a common theme that we
see in big tech and consumer. You hear
the stories around Amazon and so all of
this snowballs into where we are today.
John, by the way, love the way you open
this. I never know what to expect on the
history. You know, Genghask Khan was one
and Orson Wells is another. So these
things would never have anything in
common, but that's what Capital brings
to the industry. So thanks for that. So
before I get into some of the numbers, I
think some additional GEO and LEO
framing is important here. So John walk
through some of those different
definitions, but it does influence a bit
of the cost curve conversation that we
have here. The LEO area is where we've
seen a lot of the cost reductions over
the past two decades in particular. GEOs
have also seen some cost reductions, but
not to the extent that we see in the LEO
space. As John mentioned, there are
fewer geos that are out there, but
they're large, heavy, complex, and
you're launching these very high into
the sky. So, the on ground
infrastructure is less complex, but
actually getting it up in the air is
very complex and requires a lot of
engineering and fuel. LEOs on the
opposite end of the spectrum are
different. They're smaller, they're
cheaper, mass-roduced, and you need to
make a lot of them to be successful. And
often times you need backups that you
can switch online if one or two of them
goes down. So a bit of a different
setup, but I think influences what we've
seen on the cost curve side of things.
So let me start with the LEOs because
that's where a lot of the innovation has
taken place. So when you zoom out and
you look at all the different phases and
points in history that John walked
through, the cost curve decline, well,
some might say it's astronomical. And
the way to measure this is to look at
the cost in dollars per kilogram because
it's hard to compare one rocket versus
another. These cost figures are all over
the place. But trying to standardize
this like a PE ratio is to look at the
cost per weight. There's a lot of great
data sets that are out there and visuals
that show this cost curve going down
starting in 1958 with the Vanguard
project at a million dollars per
kilogram. So that is the peak of what
we've seen. But 10 years later, so 1969
with the Saturn 5 that was used to send
the Apollo 11 team to the moon dropped
from a million dollars per kilogram to
10,000. So that's a very very large
decline in just a short amount of time.
But after that, the cost really
stagnates and it actually goes the other
way for a little bit. In some instances,
you're looking around 25, sometimes
50,000 per kilogram. So we creep up over
the subsequent three decades from a cost
perspective and there's not a lot of
activity or downward push that comes
from that at the end of this period.
John mentioned the Aridium launch which
was probably the big moment where people
are throwing their hands up and saying
okay something's got to give Elon
relatively quickly after moves into some
of the innovation with SpaceX in the
early 2000s. But I think Aridium is the
focal point of this cost bloat that
we've seen or we saw over that
subsequent three decade period from the
late60s into the late 90s. So SpaceX was
founded with this vision of going to
Mars, but it really wasn't until the
2010s, so maybe 10, 15 years later, that
we see this cost curve go down even
further. And it was the Falcons series,
the one, the 9, and the heavy across the
2010s that continue to put downward
pressure on costs, ending with that
Falcon Heavy, which estimated cost to be
around $1600 per kilogram. So going from
10,000 in the late60s to about a 90%
reduction here in the 2010s. Now, a
significant portion of this cost decline
was due to the increasing reusability of
the components of these rockets. Early
rockets that were sent into space, most
of those materials were lost, exploded,
launched back into the atmosphere and
burned up. So, a lot of the innovation
that was taking place within the
organization of SpaceX was figuring out
how can we reuse most of this material
and instead of rebuild every time we
want to launch, we refurbish. So again,
rather than losing all your materials,
you can reuse them and improve upon them
when you send them back out. And as an
example, those Falcon rockets have been
sent up and back into space hundreds of
times. The Falcon 9, I think the stat
that I saw was about $450. But that
$1,600 per kilogram is not the endgame
for both SpaceX and now Blue Origin and
other players that are trying to push
the cost curve down. And in fact, the
goal now is to push things down below
$100 per kilogram or even in some cases
even close to $10 per kilogram. So a lot
of this is the efficiency of capex, but
huge portion of this is further leaning
into that reusability technology that's
so important particularly for SpaceX.
And a big test case for this will be
SpaceX forthcoming Starship launch in
2026. This is the largest rocket that
they've made and the goal is for it to
be completely reusable. And it's also
meant to launch the largest payload, 100
tons, at a fraction of the cost of what
it was just two decades ago. Now, on the
geo front, it's a bit of a different
story. Costs have fallen, but not to the
degree that we've seen with LEO. Some of
this is because geos have gotten bigger
and therefore heavier and more complex.
And then the other element of this is
there just aren't that many launches
that are focused on getting to the outer
atmosphere. A lot of attention and
capital has moved into the LEO space.
And I'm sure John will talk a little bit
more about some of those competitive
forces and new entrance as SpaceX has
pushed that cost down. But because the
capital and the efforts have focused on
the LEO side, you've seen a much more
aggressive push down in those costs.
Now, that is to say that we're seeing
some geo competitors pop up here and
there. There's been a little bit more of
a move into the MOS that John mentioned,
that midpoint between the low and the
geo segment. So, that will also have an
impact on costs. But I think maybe I'll
end here. What is shocking about all of
this is that geo shouldn't be all that
much more expensive the further you move
away from Earth. The biggest challenge
is getting the rocket off the ground,
but as you move further away from Earth,
there's less gravity, there's less
resistance as you get further outside of
the atmosphere. So you don't have
gravity working against you. So with
Mars being an objective of SpaceX and
Elon Musk, once you get out of the
gravitational pool, there is additional
cost, but it's not an exponential curve
like you might expect. So I expect some
more competition to occur here over the
long term as this becomes more viable
and the technology improves and the
costs go down. But for the most part,
it's mostly been on the LEO side instead
of the geo side. Erin, that's really
interesting about the disproportional
amount of energy required to get off the
ground, getting this cargo out of the
atmosphere is the biggest headwind to
innovation as gravity is this super
expensive element, particularly in that
first phase of exiting into space. But
if the cost curve of launch continues to
trend downwards even more, I push Luke a
little bit further on what that would
mean for industries that are currently
on Earth perhaps having the opportunity
to move off Earth.
>> We talked a little bit about the
International Space Station earlier and
I think that might be quite a useful
guide to where we could get if things
became cheaper. Um, the International
Space Station is probably the most
expensive piece of real estate anywhere.
$150 billion project. It cost around
about 20 billion dollars just to launch
it. So, the notion of being able to have
several space stations in orbit is very
cost prohibitive. The space shuttle took
I think 40 flights over a decade to
install it. With the Starship rocket
that SpaceX is developing, if you were
to do a comparison between the volume
and the mass of the space station and
how much of that would fit on Starship,
you're probably only looking about five
launches of Starship, which if it's
fully reusable and can launch every day,
it's less than a week to launch rather
than a decade and potentially being able
to happen at 99.5 or lower percent of
the cost that it took to install the
International Space Station. Another way
to think about it is if we could launch
200 international space stations for the
same price today, how much real estate
does that represent? How much equipment
might we would be able to put into
orbit? So you look at the space station,
the things that should have been doing
has predominantly been R&D for
pharmaceuticals or for new materials
development or the human condition etc
or energy or communications or
observations, you know, the science type
stuff. if we were able to do that at a
much higher scale and cheaper, would we
actually do manufacturing rather than
discovery in space instead? So, taking
the principles of protein
crystallization, which we've been
experimenting with on the space station,
and turning that rather than just being
a proof of concept, but to something
that can produce billions of dollars
worth of pharmaceuticals every year, and
have them regularly delivered back to
Earth, you can make these things more
effectively or to have superior
qualities in that microgravity
environment. you can go one by one and
you can get more and more sci-fi as you
go between the kinds of things which
should move up. I think that probably
our various stages along this cost curve
as we keep coming down with launch that
it makes more and more sense to do more
and more things. So it's not going to be
this sudden switch of everything makes
sense to nothing makes sense. They're
still looking for those hero products at
each stage on the cost curve here that
unlock. But I'd say pharmaceuticals is
probably quite a careful when I say this
but quite a likely one. If you look at a
lot of the commercial space station
projects which are being discussed at
the moment, a lot of pharmaceutical
companies are vaguely involved with
what's going on there, it gives you a
bit of a hint as to where people might
be seeing the value in them.
>> So you could literally start to
visualize George Jetson, who we used to
laugh at, commuting up to a Leo based
factory each morning is kind of what
you're referring to.
>> Yeah. And I mean this sounds daft to
talk about in that context, but this
could be the reality within the next 10
years. If you look at what SpaceX was
doing a decade ago, we didn't really
have reusable rockets back then. There
was a handful of launches. Starlink
didn't exist. And now all of a sudden,
we're talking about these millions and
millions of subscribers and being able
to provide an internet connection
anywhere on Earth. People would have
said that's science fiction. That's not
going to happen. But when the cost curve
conspires with capability, these are the
things that get unlocked on much shorter
time frames than people suggest. I think
one of the Musk quotes is turning the
impossible into the merely late. They
are very ambitious in terms of the
things which they do and I think there
is definitely uncertainty around some of
these timelines, but there is a degree
of inevitability.
[Music]
So John, listening to Luke just reminds
me of how incredible the cost decline
has been in terms of magnitude and
speed. I almost have to double check
some of these numbers and dates. It was
only the early 2010s when this really
accelerated. It's pretty crazy.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's just an extraordinary
decline in costs. A couple of their
footnotes that I found in my research,
there was a interesting 2011 NASA
Commission report that attempted to
forecast what it would have cost NASA to
build the Falcon 9 using their cost plus
model and their culture and processes.
And the result was about 4 billion US.
It cost SpaceX 400 million. It's about a
tenth of the price. So it's amazing as
we've been stating that when you are
liberated and unconstrained by the
industry's legacy tools, assets or risk
averse philosophies, what can happen.
Then maybe moving back to your PE, your
apples to apples cost per kilogram. So
let's think about Starship a little bit,
which we've alluded to in the past. This
is meant to be 10 million per launch at
scale originally and there's even been
hints this might actually drop to even 2
million. Now if you do the calculation
getting down to 2 million which could be
a little bit of Elon exaggeration. He
has a tendency to do that but that could
be $10 per kilogram. Now just to put
that in perspective that's 100 times
cheaper than Falcon 9, 99% cheaper than
the space shuttle. $10 per kilogram is
effectively what we pay FedEx or the
United States Postal Service or Amazon
Prime to get our stuff here. Well, I
guess Amazon Prime is free, but Amazon
to get our stuff, our packages to our
doorstep. Can you imagine the potential
applications and competition that that
opens up? And I would not be surprised
therefore that Jeff Bezos understands
that, too. I don't think that's his only
motivation, but you better believe that
he understands that this could change
how packages, goods, and maybe even
people are moved around in the future.
>> Exactly. The use case for Amazon's
pretty obvious, but the implications for
society more broadly are also really
interesting to think about. We actually
asked Luke again to imagine a $10 per
kilogram world for a moment. And he had
a lot of really interesting use cases,
too. Let's listen to what he had to say
here.
I think it's something that again if
these cost curves and these technologies
continue to conspire in the way which
they have been. It's not unreasonable to
expect that within a 10year potential
time frame we could achieve something
like that. I mean it'd be fantastic if
we do. We're not basing our investment
hypothesis on that particular cost
point. But in the interest of sort of
exploring what does that mean? What kind
of crazy things might be possible? Well,
there's a $20 billion or more market in
premium next a day delivery globally. If
you're able to launch a Starship for
that kind of cost, you can get anywhere
in the world in 40 minutes. Now, the
part which we don't tend to mention in
that is that the acceleration will
probably be quite severe and it'll be
awfully loud for wherever you're taking
off from and landing. So you probably
won't be doing that to the middle of a
city, but if there's areas out at sea or
slightly more remote places that you
could then use as a new version of a
harbor for international freight and
then ship it into a logistics hub or
something like that or if you need to do
rapid response for crisis situations, be
it humanitarian or military. One of the
big problems is getting stuff where it
needs to go within a decent amount of
time. So the rapid deployability of
vaccines, medical hardware, disaster
recovery stuff for earthquakes, etc. But
equally, if you need to deploy special
forces or tanks or power generation
capabilities to remote bases, etc., you
can envisage these things being
palletized and put on a high performance
rocket like that. Maybe we will turn
that into can we get to Australia within
the space of an hour and is that going
to open up some crazy holiday market
both on Earth or in orbit or to the
moon, etc. If we get to that $10 per
kilo type cost, I think it's likely we
will have got to Mars already or we will
be on the moon already with a base or
with some settlement by that point. Mars
is ultimately a function of how cost
effectively we can get cargo into low
Earth orbit. Once we're in low Earth
orbit, it's from an energy point of view
much less demanding to go anywhere else
in the solar system. You know, the big
problem to climb out of is gravity on
Earth. And so if we get to that level of
cost, it means that we've got a level of
reusability in Starship and a level of
performance in Starship that it makes a
lot of this extra solar system
exploration possible. So if we are
talking about those things, it's what
are the implications that's already
happened to get to that point which I
find quite interesting. Again, as I've
said elsewhere, I don't think
exploration is this business scuttling
cost adventure that it might sound
initially. If we are getting to Mars, it
means that we're able to get thousands
and thousands of tons of cargo into
orbit, which means better broadband
services, better Earth observation. It
means probably data centers in space
connected to Starink or other
satellites. It means factories in orbit,
etc. All of this. And then Mars is a bit
of a rounding error on that end that we
just send one ship further out into the
solar system, but a thousand of them are
orbiting the planet instead.
So, what I'm hearing, Aaron, is Shanghai
for breakfast, Cape Town for lunch, and
you could be home for dinner.
>> Yeah, we could do a capital decanted
episode in space.
>> We could actually travel to China and
back before we finished a capital
decanted episode. This is maybe another
way to put it. All right, so let's bang
through the rest. We've got one more
decade, but this last decade, meaning
2025 backwards, has been fast and
furious. So I do just need to walk you
through before we get to Aaron sizing
and segmenting the space economy market
today and perhaps the TAM in the future.
Let me finish this near history in a bit
of a speed round timeline. So 2008 on
its fourth attempt Falcon 1 becomes the
first commercially developed rocket to
reach orbit. Also in 2008 very
interestingly India dramatically enters
the space discussion by launching a
lunar orbiter and discovering water on
the moon. 2009 Falcon 9 launches. And by
the way, the number is simply the number
Falcon 1 versus Falcon 9. The number of
what they call Merlin engines on the
bottom of the rocket. So same rocket,
nine engines instead of one. 2011, the
Wolf Amendment prohibits us from
collaborating with China on space
exploration, igniting the state
sponsored program in Beijing. 2012,
SpaceX's Dragon becomes the first
private spacecraft to dock at the ISS.
2013, China completes the first lunar
rover landing on moon surface since
1976.
2015, SpaceX has their first successful
landing of the Falcon 9 booster. I think
you mentioned this, kicking off huge
opportunity and more cost savings in
this idea of reuse. 2019, iSpace becomes
the first private Chinese company to
reach orbit. 2020, first crude SpaceX
flight bringing NASA astronauts to ISS.
By the way, this ends a complete
reliance on the Russians in the previous
10 years since the retirement of the
space shuttle to get astronauts to the
ISS. We were paying them huge amounts of
money for each launch of astronauts up
to the ISS in that intervening decade.
2021 with Jeff Bezos aboard the Blue
Origin successfully orbits their new
Shepard craft. 2023, China completes
their first fully functional space
station. And also, India becomes the
first nation to successfully land on the
lunar south pole. And then finally,
2023, SpaceX's Starship as its first
test flight with operational aimed for
2026 for that mega ship. Now, just to
put the Starship in perspective, Aaron,
you alluded to its size a moment ago,
but my understanding this is basically
to get some bearings on this,
effectively twice as wide and twice as
tall. the cargo area, the payload area
as Falcon 9. So exponentially, if you do
the math, greater payload opportunities.
So for example, I heard that a Falcon 9,
you could carry 60 Starlink satellites
in it. Starship could have hundreds of
those satellites or to your earlier
point, much bigger geo satellites,
right? So in the meantime, startup
competition from companies like
Electron, Rocket Lab, ULA, which is a
Lockheed and Boeing JV, start to form.
And finally the cherry on top of this
next year I mentioned it's been 50 years
at the time of this recording in 2026
the Aremis program the first crude
mission to the moon since 1972 so
exciting Airbus Lockheed SpaceX Blue
Origin they are all involved in
different aspects of this program unlike
the Apollo program where the astronauts
had this 2-hour timer on the surface and
bounced around for a few minutes with
great sound bites. My understanding is
we're going to be able to send a
skyscrapers worth of cargo and living
space material, which is just
mind-boggling. So, completely different
goals and opportunity with this trip.
So, John, when we were talking to Emma
about this whole collective enthusiasm
for space, she actually framed it as
more of a cooperative initiative than a
competitive one and really SpaceX being
at the center of it. I don't know how
long that'll last, but let's listen to
her explain that a little bit further.
I don't think that space as a category
would be investable today if it wasn't
for SpaceX. And I think SpaceX has
created in my view the talent pool. I
don't think that we would have the same
talent pool that we have today if it
wasn't for them. and it also created the
infrastructure for a lot of the other
companies to be able to launch and build
on top. I do think that most of the
companies that we have actually seen
emerging see SpaceX as the AWS for
orbit. So they don't try and go and
compete directly with SpaceX. But most
of the conversation that I've been
having with private companies is we've
mapped where SpaceX was playing and we
are building around it to create a more
wholesome landscape and allow for more
use cases. I think when we think just a
little bit about what makes a company
interesting or investable from our side
especially for us we do late stage when
you're raising at a valuation where we
would be investing it's hard to invest
on the back of an idea so I think one of
the first questions that we often been
asking team is have you flown to space
what have you sent to space or have you
done any form of mission or testing
thing and I don't think that any of
those companies would be able to as
easily say yes if it wasn't for
leveraging SpaceX for sending some of
their mission out there. So for example
the company Firefly that recently went
public I attended their first mission to
the moon. So they were sending their
moon launcher in January in the sky and
it was done out of a SpaceX mission. And
then if we are looking into most of the
other companies out there, we were
talking a little bit earlier about ISS
and the new station. Well, Axium is
partnering with SpaceX on something like
that. So I think competition yes but
there's also a lot of collaboration
and SpaceX has overall in my view really
being an enabler and space as a service
stack on top of which most of the
companies have been able to build.
So Erin, I think we'll talk about this a
little bit later in the episode too, but
I'll be curious to see to Emma's point
how long that cooperation lasts among
the different companies in the
ecosystem. Competitive forces are rising
both at the government level and
certainly the corporate level continues.
And so again, let's cover that a little
bit later in more depth.
>> Well, John, I actually think you'll
remember she brought this up too. The
industry more broadly is looking for
alternative options out there. So let's
listen to that response, too.
I do think that as we have seen over the
last probably year, of course people are
also thinking about oh if SpaceX has so
much runway and control over whatever is
happening in space does it mean that we
should have some alternative option when
it comes to launch and everything? So
there is a broader economy that's being
created. But I do think that overall
most companies have tremendous amount of
respect for what SpaceX has been
building and most of them are trying to
build around that ecosystem versus
trying to compete with the company.
>> So that is the recent history, the
completion of all the history. I am
going to pass it back to you Aaron to
help us size up this current market.
Help us think through the growth
opportunities moving forward.
>> So let's talk about the space economy
which is a very broad category of the
investment universe if you will. There's
a few different estimates of how big the
space economy really is. So I've done a
bit of math to try to separate the
components as best as I can. At the
highest level, there's an estimate from
the space foundation that reported that
they estimate the space economy in total
to be around 615 billion US. And there's
a forecast depending on where you look
and John mentioned 1 trillion. I've seen
as much as two trillion. So it depends
on what you categorize in this universe.
But directionally you can see doubling
over the next five to 15 years. So 1
trillion by 2030 to two trillion by 2040
and so on. And a lot of this growth is
expected to come from the private sector
as investment continues to grow and
again that reusable launch technology
improves. I think that'll be a gamecher
for a lot of this. So of that 615
billion the satellite industry
association estimates that about 300
billion of that is in the private sector
satellite and launch industry today. So
roughly half just focused on satellites.
And when I think of this investment
stack, if you will, there's a very
strong foundation followed by five more
investable categories. And in fact, that
very foundation is not an investment
opportunity at all. It's more around
policies and rules and standards that
enable the rest of the stack. And that's
really important, especially as we start
to get into public private partnerships
and agreements between nations. Having
that foundation is important for revenue
contribution in each of these different
components. So I'll give you a bit of a
dollar amount within each of these.
Again, this is not an exact science, pun
intended, but it does give you a bit of
a pie chart within this 300 billion or
so. So let's walk through the five.
First is launch and logistics. So this
is how you get access to space. It
includes launch technology, refueling,
rockets, tugs, and so on. and that's
around 10 billion US in revenue. Second
is infrastructure and orbit. So this is
satellite manufacturing stations, relays
and this is around 20 billion or so.
Then you start getting into some of the
bigger categories. So infrastructure on
the ground, this is orbit stations,
cloud edge processing and so on and
that's around 155 billion in revenue.
And then you have enduser so
agriculture, finance, national security,
logistics around 105 billion estimated.
And then the smaller portion but one of
the faster growing portions is data and
analytics. So AI, geospatial services
and so on roughly around 4 billion in
revenue. So as you move up this stack,
the more private sector is required,
typically the more private capital is
required because of the long time
horizon associated with payback and
actually generating revenue for a lot of
these initiatives. But some of the
growth areas here are places where the
cost curve has come down and the cost
curve is enabling some of these growth
areas. So it's a bit of a circular
conversation especially around launches.
So what about the other half? That's the
300 billion focus on satellite. It's
really simple if you broadly categorize
this. Around half of the other 300
billion is government spending. So this
is civil space agencies, government
initiatives that are supporting space
exploration and so on. And then the
second part is non-satellite commercial
spending. So logistics mapping,
location-based services, and then of
course human space tourism and
operations representing the other half.
>> Well, thanks Aaron. I think it's a
really helpful categorization. But when
we spoke with Emma at Tro, she had a
slightly different way of looking at the
universe which we also really like. So
let's listen to that. Now
>> I think the universe has been divided
between space for earth and space for
space. I think when we're looking into
space for earth, I think this is more
immediate accessible opportunity. And
when we looked into what have been some
of the biggest opportunities, I think
SpaceX really with their launches
business as being a big catalyst for
other companies to emerge. What we've
seen on the private side is a whole
universe of companies that have been
looking into small and medium launches.
So a complement to SpaceX or competition
to SpaceX in some ways in capacity. And
I think we've seen most recently
companies going public. We've seen
Rocket Labs. We've seen Firefly that
recently went public as well. I think
Firefly has been now at about Earth 7
launch. They've been looking at in
space. And I think the original universe
of opportunity had a lot of companies
that were tackling that problem. So what
is the alternative to SpaceX and then
how can we get there? So I think that's
been one category. There's a couple of
folks that are doing things that are
interesting. Stoke space is one of them
that you've probably heard about and
that is looking really into reusability
as a differentiator. The other
opportunities that we've seen emerging a
little bit more on the private markets
has been looking into the retirement of
the ISS. That creates a big opportunity
for someone to step in from the private
market. We have couple of companies in
that segment. I think Axiom is one that
I've been really laser focused on this
opportunity. So that is something else
that I think is interesting. Couple of
other space that have been seeing a lot
more activity satellite buses. We have
couple of companies that are focusing on
different sizes of satellite buses.
We've seen for example our friends at
founders fund backing this company
called Endurosep that is a European
player that is doing more on the small
buses side. We have a couple of folks X
SpaceX that have been building this
company called K2 space that has been
looking into slightly larger vehicles.
So that is also a category that is up
for grab. The other thing that's become
also pretty interesting is the
opportunity in defense. At the farm, we
are an investor in nextgen prime like
Andreil for example and the companies
has been quite active in terms of
looking for partnership for national
security missions. There's one company
that's pretty interesting that has been
really targeting the segment that is
called impulse space. I was founded by
Tom Willer who was one of the pioneer at
SpaceX and I think it creates big
opportunity for these partnership to
look into the defense aspect of space.
>> Well, space for earth and space for
space is definitely a more eloquent way
to put it. I like that framing a lot
especially around where most of the
activity has taken place which is really
in that first group. However, I think
the activity of the future is in that
second group which I want to talk about
now. The space economy is projected to
grow at somewhere between 6 to 8%. So
that's more than twice nominal GDP
growth globally to that $2 trillion
revenue target according to McKenzie by
2040. For comparison, by the way, this
is the same growth trajectory that we're
expected to see in semiconductors. And
there's actually a pretty similar
trajectory in terms of cost reduction
and efficiencies in the semiconductor
space versus the space economy. So if
you're trying to give yourself an apples
to apples comparison on how you scope
this, that's always an interesting
anchor point as well. It will also
represent about half of the global
payments industry from a revenue
perspective. So this is a large industry
and a lot of opportunity. So that
investment stack improves and as more
launches take place, there's a lot of
opportunities for investment in areas
that we don't currently have. So some of
those things that I mentioned before may
improve and change and evolve, but I'll
focus on some of the new stuff that I
think is going to be very interesting.
So first is space tourism. And while
this is already in existence, it's
really small and really reserved for the
ultra wealthy, the billionaires that are
going up in the space.
>> And Katy Perry.
>> And Katy Perry. Baby, you're a firework.
Human travel is currently going for,
depending on the seat, 250 to 500,000
US. So, a seat for low orbit is
expensive. High orbit is even more
expensive. It's actually in the millions
to take that seat. So, SpaceX executes
on its vision. This will come down as
well as the costs decrease just to
create some of these different rockets.
So space tourism likely as we see
efficiencies improve and that cost curve
continue will become cheaper and we're
likely to see more people going up to
tour space. Second is orbital
construction and inspace manufacturing.
And John, I was taking some notes as you
were walking through the history, but
you talked about the International Space
Station and how we're flying all these
components up and trying to build on the
ground and launch it into space. But
imagine if it's so cheap and affordable
and efficient to actually take some of
those components into space and actually
build things in space where you're not
as worried about the size and the weight
in order to do so. You could have very
large international space stations in
that particular scenario. There's other
industries as well. Pharma is one that
was highlighted in some of my research
and I was listening to a podcast on this
and the quote that stuck with me was
anything that can be made on the ground
can be made in space. So rather than
making satellites and shooting them up
in the air, why not build them in the
air? So there's a lot of opportunity
when the lack of gravity isn't there and
can actually benefit some of these
different research initiatives.
Additionally, when you're out of the
Earth's atmosphere and you're into deep
space, if you will, you've got much
greater connectivity to the sun. So
solar power and other alternative
sources of energy could help contribute
to some of these different efficiencies,
which could create a whole new economy
in itself. So something to consider
there. And this is actually one of the
areas that Jeff Bezos is pretty
passionate about is why don't we take
some of this stuff that we're building
on the ground and actually build it out
in space. Third is resource extraction.
So this is either on the moon or it's on
asteroids, but how do we extract natural
resources that we see out in space and
bring it back home? And this has
implications both for natural resources
in general, but also AI and robotics.
lot of opportunity there to bring
natural resources home. Of course,
defense and it's interesting to think
through the history that you were
walking through, John, of a lot of the
early urgency around space was national
defense. We wanted to be the first ones
to get up there. It was government-ledd.
And as we see more and more commercial
interests moving into space, we're
likely to see governments come back
online and develop things like
surveillance and defense and
intelligence that is up in the
atmosphere. No one is going to want to
sit on the sidelines when there's an
opportunity for you to monitor other
players around the world. And then the
final category is colonization. If we
actually get there, whether that's the
moon or if it's on Mars, that's a long
ways off, but could create an entire
ecosystem and economy as well.
>> So Erin, again, like the current space
stack, we asked Emma about this using
her framing of space for Earth and space
for space. And I think she had some
interesting overlap with what you said,
but she also had a few new and what you
might call other industries that were
also really interesting to add to the
mix as well.
>> I think what we are seeing in space for
Earth is in my view investable and
something where we will see revenue
coming out over the next three, four,
five years. I think when we're looking
into space for space, some is a little
bit more near-term and some might feel a
little bit more sci-fi, but I think it
is the broader thematic that we should
be paying attention to. Probably a
little bit more suited for earlier stage
venture than growth stage. But I think
things like inspace manufacturings and
materials is one thing that comes to
mind. So there's this company called
Redwire that's doing in orbit 3D
printing for example. So that would be
something that I would fit into that
category. If we're looking into life
support and biotech in space, you have
companies like Spaceorn that's looking
into embryo in space or interstellar
labs that is looking to do biogenerative
green houses. One thing that is a little
bit more near firm but I think
interesting categories debris removal.
So there's a few companies that are
looking at that more specifically as a
problem. Then energy. So how do you
create energy power system once you're
in space? I think this is also something
that we should be paying attention to.
Health and human performance in space. I
think that's probably another category
where we're going to see a lot of
players that are coming out and that can
be quite interesting in space cloud and
edge computing. I think that's probably
something else where we're going to see
a number of players emerging. I had
spent some time a few years back with
this company that was also looking into
cyber security in space. Those are for
me categories that I think is a bit
harder to predict the success today. And
in terms of the timeline to seeing real
revenue streams coming out, there's a
lot of uncertainty for investors like
us. But I think ultimately it will be
interesting and if we continue to seek
the type of advancements that we are
seeing. I live in San Francisco and I
sometimes feel it's a little bit like a
sci-fi movie. I think that we have
flying cars and things like that. So if
things continue to move at this pace,
this might be something that we actually
see as investable in a couple of years.
>> So Aaron, let's summarize our framing a
bit. A lot of the opportunity lies in
the space for space group as we look to
the future. And by the way, as a side
note, cyber security as an industry
wasn't really in your list, wasn't on my
radar, but I guess that doesn't surprise
me if all this new online activity is
taking place out there, you might say. I
also 100% agree with her that debris
cleanup, perhaps cover this a little bit
later as well, is going to be a concern.
All this junk orbiting our planet, the
more we bring up there, the more we're
trying to build up there, it is likely
to be a bigger and bigger issue. So, as
I was looking at the current makeup of
the space economy and the future space
economy, it's so funny. We can imagine
and come up with all these different
creative solutions. But I think in the
short term where we're going to see a
lot of improvements is what you
mentioned at the very beginning, John,
which is these are technologies and
solutions that impact mundane day-to-day
things. It's our Google maps, it's Uber,
it's having a more clear satellite
imagery on Google Earth. So, I think
we're going to continue to see
improvements there. Obviously, there's a
lot of opportunity longer term, but
really interesting to talk through the
micro and then these big amorphous
initiatives. So, I don't know if that's
synced up with what you saw as you were
looking at the different opportunities
out there, but there's a lot as you can
tell.
>> No, just a couple reflections. I think
you said it well. You know, launch
itself, while it is capturing the
imagination and attention of all of us
because of the very dramatic SpaceX
launches and rellandings, is actually a
very small portion of the overall pie.
itself and in some ways I heard someone
talk about launch and liken it to fiber
optic cable laying of the late '9s. This
meaning it commoditizes it is
effectively a enabling business for
purposes of profitable applications. So
meaning it will be overbuilt. The cost
curve will continue to decline. It won't
be a money-making enterprise. So launch
goes the way of 360 and worldcom and
global crossing. And by the way, that's
back to the brilliance of Elon is that
he maybe saw this early and realized he
had to create his own demand in Starlink
to actually build a business eventually
from it. And Starlink in the near- term
in this interim is feeding the capital
expenditures to keep funding the launch
business. It's just a really interesting
I think metaphor. So the other thing
that comes to mind is when you talk
about data centers up in lower earth
orbit. So the cloud actually is in the
cloud
>> in the cloud.
>> So there you go. But I think a really
helpful segmentation to bring it all
together. And as I said at the very
beginning, which trajectory curve you
choose is dependent on how quickly you
think all this is going to develop. And
as we'll get to in a minute, I think
significantly dependent on public and
private cooperation.
>> Absolutely. We'll definitely get to the
private side. Elon and SpaceX have
effectively created their own demand,
but I think increasingly created their
own competition as well. Maybe not what
he wanted, but certainly a reality as
you move forward. Yeah, I think on that
point, John, I'd love to talk to you a
little bit more about the geopolitical
element of this. I think this is the
surprising part of the research around
this episode is I went in like, okay,
let's understand the economy here. Let's
understand the components of where the
private sector plays and the public
sector plays. But as I got further into
it, there's definitely a geopolitical
element to this that I think maybe
wasn't there even five or ten years ago.
And it's almost a redux of what we saw
early on between the US and the Soviet
Union. So there were a couple of angles
that I took away from this one was just
the blocks that we've seen from a
geopolitical perspective almost aligning
pretty well with these different polls
that we're seeing come up with the US on
one end and China on the other and
Europe depending on where you are sits
somewhere in the middle between all of
those some of the tensions with those
blocks and then of course some of the
commercial interests that are mostly in
the private sector but as the private
sector interacts with governments
creates some tension as Well, so I'd
love to get your take and maybe starting
with the first element of this these
blocks. You've got on one end the
Artemis Accords with the US leading the
way, NASA leading the way was
established in 2020 and the whole
purpose here was to establish a safe,
peaceful, prosperous future of space
exploration and you now have 56
signitories on this particular accord.
So, a lot of countries that have come
together to support this. On the other
end of the spectrum, you now have the
International Lunar Research Station,
ILRS, which was established shortly
after 2021 with China and Russia. 17
countries, 50 research institutions, and
their purpose was to build a research
station and orbital assets on the moon.
Now, those are interesting in
themselves, but I think what's
interesting about both of those
initiatives is that there's only two
countries that have signed on to both.
Thailand and Sagal. Everyone else has
almost picked a side to some degree. So
maybe that's the purpose that has
attracted certain countries to one
versus the other. But as you were
looking through this, I'd be curious
this geopolitical swirl that we're
starting to see. How do you think about
those two initiatives just purely from a
government country level? I think first
I'd say or just underscore what you said
earlier is that there's no country that
is not now concerned about this for
national security purposes. All of them
want to be in the game and are finding
ways to fund, support, develop, exploit
space for purposes of defense. And so
obviously we know the main stays over
many many years but we even mentioned
explicitly India and China are new
entrance but Saudi and Peru are other as
examples entries into developing their
own space programs. The way you describe
that with the ILRS is similar I liken it
to what we've done recently with
semiconductors and creating this binary
block or binary stacks of development or
AI. So mobile or AI is I think a good
test case and this duplication and
competition in some ways for innovation
is good. I mean, we saw the recent
Sputnik moment of deepseek, but in
reality, I think there's lots of when
you think of that semiconductor case,
lots of unintended consequences of
deciding through national security
purposes like the Wolf Amendment to
embargo or eliminate trade or
collaboration with a quote competing
nation. Is that you are incentivizing
them to develop their own competing
force and use it for their own selfish
purposes, which is completely
understandable. And is that really what
we want to do? There's obviously
trade-offs here. I completely
understand. But if there's two stacks of
space stations and two stacks of launch
capabilities and two stacks of space
forces, this seems to be at odds with
this idea of a peaceful use of space. So
it is a very challenging conundrum. We
don't seem to be in a place to your
point on two blocks where the world can
come together and build a collaborative
regulatory and legal framework for
space. I think it's sorely needed. We
should talk a bit about that, but we
just don't seem to be in the right
psyche globally right now to be able to
do this proper foundational work. I
think that's exactly right, John. And we
asked Luke about the unintended
consequences of countries not
cooperating with one another and in some
cases putting restrictions on any
collaboration. So, let's listen to him
now.
[Music]
I mean, you look at the International
Space Station, notably does not include
certain nations. It's not everybody at
the UN who has a place on the
International Space Station. So, it's
been something that's been a very
cognizant choice for many decades, I
would say, to in terms of where does the
US partner with, where does the US
source components or supply components
to. I think China has been kept out from
a lot of those partnerships for a lot
longer than maybe recent history. I
think we're just seeing that manifest in
some of these ways much more prominently
now. To your question about has that
been a forcing function 100%. Any nation
who has a desire to achieve greater and
greater technological feats and where
you can see the value of that if you're
kept out from the party in one place
that's not going to stop you from having
that desire to succeed or diminish the
benefits of success if you were to go
after them. So I think there's been a
really strong incentive for China to
build its own domestic space industry
and they've done a phenomenal job at
that. To be honest, there is less media
coverage of that because the Chinese
space program, as best I understand it
anyway, there isn't a distinction
between NASA and the space force. They
are one in the same entity. There isn't
a civil department, a defense department
in that sense. So maybe quite a lot of
the activity is shrouded in more secrecy
than NASA launches are very public by
their nature. So you don't really get a
sense of just how quickly China is
actually moving along the cost curve and
the volume of launches which they're
carrying on. But they are, if you were
to call China a company, they are the
biggest competitor to SpaceX in terms of
number of launches. There is a Chinese
space station on orbit now with
astronauts working there. They're very
clear ambitions to go back to the moon.
In the same way that NASA is with the
Arteimus Accords, China has its
equivalent there or who might be
interested in the Chinese Luna station
etc. So yes, I agree with your
contention that all these things are
causing rival nations, if you want to
describe that way, competitors to think
about how can they do this without
having to rely on a lot of the
technology stack that the US has already
built.
Yeah. And it's interesting when you look
at history, some of these treaties that
were established in the '60s and '7s
were that global mindset, but the US was
the only one that was leading the charge
at that point. So it's easy for us to
say, "Here's a treaty. lets everyone
sign on. But now that you've got
different motives and initiatives, it's
a little bit more challenging. And you
mentioned Saudi and it's interesting as
I was looking at the way that these
countries work together and even the way
that they enable private capital to go
after these initiatives. You've got the
Middle East which is trying to create
its own center of influence, if you
will, where they want to cooperate with
both the US and China and Russia. And
you even see that in where they send
astronauts and where they collaborate on
certain things. So they're not really
picking a side as much as just trying to
keep the peace between the two. And then
you've got the EU which is very closely
tied to the US as an ally, but they want
to be independent. And I think a lot of
this was driven by some of the more
political leaning parts of Elon Musk and
they don't want to be dependent on
Starlink, for example. So they're
creating their own satellite
constellation that they want to be known
for and not be as dependent on one
person. So, I don't know how you react
to that or if anything showed up in what
you were researching, but I just found
that frenemies element of you've got
these ally blocks, but then we're all
jockeying for our own interests in the
private sector. How do you think about
that?
>> Well, we saw that decision tree of Elon
reliability come to life on the
international stage with Ukraine's
request to use Starlink. They were using
it for some intelligence gathering, but
at some point a line was drawn. And so,
that has become an issue already. and I
think is a nice foreshadowing of where
this could go. To your point, you're
right that places like the Emirates and
Saudi are today's Switzerland in many
ways of World War II. They want to play
both sides. They want to be seen as
independent. They don't want to align
themselves exclusively with either of
the two blocks. You alluded to it. We
didn't really mention the Outer Space
Treaty of 1967, but I should stress it
was just a treaty. So, it's got over a
100 signitories, but it was meant to
basically govern the exploration and
rights of use to outer space. It does
prohibit the use of weapons of mass
destruction, and it makes ambiguous
statements about demilitarization,
but it's not completely clear. So, I
think it outlaws Death Star, Imperial
Starship, destruction of planets kind of
thing, but it's only as good as nations
want to follow this. I mean, there is no
body, there's no police force. I really
think we need, and I mentioned it
earlier, we need a UN equivalent, a
literal international standards body
that has teeth and a regulatory
framework to make sure that this is
truly accessible to all and all should
be around the table. All of these space
and aspirational space countries should
be around the table. I mean, it's things
like what do we do with space debris and
space traffic and launch windows, but
also things like militarization of space
and who owns minerals that you discover
on an asteroid and can you actually
inhabit? Can you actually create
sovereign property rights? The outer
space treaty actually says you can't
currently, but when we're talking about
the moon and Mars civilizations, that
has to be something and there has to be
a place, a body that actually determines
and rules and judges on those issues.
And if this is allowed to be created
through whoever gets there first and
through sheer force of will defines the
rules that would not be good. It's funny
we don't want a Dutch East India company
of space that dominates or for you
Avatar fans a resources development
administration that basically has a
complete hold on any use of space. We've
got to make sure this is democratized
and the standards body that I'm waxing
on is I think one important way to do
that. Well, not only were the
motivations different back then when
these treaties were being signed 50 plus
years ago, but also the technology,
John, we had no idea what tech we'd be
dealing with. So, it was hard to put any
anticipatory language around it. And we
spoke to Luke about this as well, and he
had some views on the outdated nature of
these treaties, too. So, let's listen in
here.
I think there's always going to be room
for improvement in these things and the
lessons you take from any other
industries as principles which applied
at a certain scale and no longer valid
at orders of magnitude large. The kinds
of challenges and problems which we
encounter there or externalities which
are created can be quite different then
I think space is actually quite a
successful area for that sort of
regulation. Historically the outer space
treaty and other things which have kept
space relatively peaceful and free of
weapons of mass destruction but for
example were written at a time where no
one really conceived of a commercial
entity operating in space. It was very
much around governments not claiming
sovereignty over particular areas or
thinking about that great power
competition whereas now maybe a lot more
of the volume or the externalities might
be in the hands of businesses rather
than in governments. I suppose if we
move to space militarization that might
flip again. But I would agree with you
in terms of that at greater and greater
level of scale there is going to be more
and more of a need for coordination to
avoid conflict is maybe the way to think
about that and the direction of travel.
I think for most international bodies at
the moment isn't necessarily the most
promising one for everyone getting along
and coming to a consensus style
agreement about things. It seems to be a
bit more bulcanization of how we think
about it. Spectrum is maybe an example
of a success story there. I suppose the
radio frequencies who's allowed to
transmit on which frequency is organized
by the international telecommunications
union which is at a department of the
United Nations but you still need to go
and get landing rights in every single
country which you want to broadcast in.
So it's kind of a bit of a hybrid model
there but maybe one that stood the test
of time in terms of that has allowed
international businesses and in
crossborder you provision of services to
exist. So maybe not throwing out what we
have and replacing it with something
brand new is needed. But definitely
thinking about the levels of scale is
going to be a challenge for regulation
and indeed what are the liabilities? How
are we sharing the liabilities of space
debris or de-orbiting all these kind of
things?
I think Luke's comments really get to
the heart of this entire episode. John,
what kind of space race are we building?
Ultimately, it's the ones that are in
charge that write the rules and
treaties. So the regulation and
perspectives will follow all of that.
And I 100% take his point on the
balancing act of government versus
business and how that might influence
things too. When things are peaceful,
businesses might drive things, but the
moment you start to escalate into
military or conflict, the government
will have different motives. So John,
we're getting close to the end. So why
don't you land this rocket? Take us
home.
>> I want to just close with one more point
that I think is important. I mentioned
this idea of public private cooperation.
So these forcing functions have existed
mutually exclusive I think to date.
There was the government cold war based
forcing function. And then there was the
SpaceX and now commercial forcing
function. And I think we need both for
this to be effective. Not in just
international standard setting bodies,
but in actual development, funding,
creation, design. Artemis is a start. To
be fair, there's this interesting
McKenzie paper that's in the show notes
where they talk about the importance of
this overlap and coordination. And they
have this 2x two grid. And the
northeastern corner, the one you want to
be in, is they call the accessible,
self- sustaining space economy. And they
define that as quote marked by
unprecedented technological innovation
catalyzed by global collaboration,
widespread funding, and healthy
competition and significant public and
private alignment. So the vertical axis,
by the way, is size and opportunity in
the market, and the horizontal axis is
how much coordination between public and
private. So this northeast corner is
meant to be nirvana. I found this quote
Aaron by a gentleman named Michael
Supradini. He was co-founder and former
CEO of Axiom Space which is by the way
building the first commercial space
station and he said similar to this
McKenzie 2x2 quote the key enabler for
the advancement of civilization is
synergy between a supportive space
policy framework pioneering business
models and the development of a vibrant
space economy. The future of space is
not just about the destinations we build
but about the economic ecosystems we
create along the way. and he really
stresses again this importance of
countries working with commercial
players. So that's a critical piece that
I think is a huge missing element of the
dialogue, the discussions and the
progress today.
>> Great.
>> All right, Decanters, we have I think
exhausted that. So we're grateful you
hung with us. I hope that was
interesting. I hope it equipped you to
have discussions about the investability
of space and the space economy. I hope
it equipped you to analyze some of these
opportunities, these newer segments that
Aaron laid out. There is certainly a
spectrum there of dreamy fantasy and
near-term opportunity in the future that
I think is very, very promising. So,
we'll see where this goes. So, thanks
again and we will see you next time.
