[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high-n networth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com. In this episode, Bill welcomes
Ruth Yang, global head of private market
analytics at S&P Global Ratings. Ruth
shares her extensive background in
credit and leverage finance,
highlighting her unique perspective on
the expansion of private credit markets.
They explore how private credit has
evolved, the role of club deals, rating
methodologies, and the growing
involvement of high net worth investors.
Ruth also discusses the impact of
documentation quality, the rise of
lender on lender conflicts, and the
critical role of thought leadership and
generative AI in shaping the future of
private market analytics.
[Music]
Ruth Yang, welcome to Educational Alpha.
Thank you, Bill. I'm very happy to be
here. I've been looking forward to this
and as we think about the growing access
to risk premium in the private markets,
the role of not only thought leadership,
which you oversee, but ratings as well
is something that's so gerine, but
before we get to that, and we have a lot
to cover there, maybe a bit of your
background. You've had a couple
different stations in your career, and I
think that would help the listeners
orient themselves to your point of view.
I am at S&P Global Ratings, the global
head of private market analytics. I've
been within ratings for about three and
a half years now and I've been with S&P
in different roles for about over 20
years. My background is entirely credit
and credit research. The majority of my
time I've been in leverage finance,
broadly syndicated, bond markets,
indices, calculations, benchmarks. And I
think what's interesting with a rise of
private credit, you will find a lot of
us who have been around for a long time,
but we've been as part of the credit
markets, as part of the evolution
towards this behemoth that is now
private credit. So there's a continuity.
It didn't come out of nowhere. It's like
they talk in Nashville like there's no
overnight successes. Everybody built
from something. And I think that's true
of private credit as well. And I did
take a quick look at your background and
I'm a fan of the Godfather movies and
Michael Corleone I think in one of the
later editions said every time I try to
leave they pull me back in. And it
reminded me of that line when I looked
at your CV and if I read it right you've
had three separate stations at S&P
including your current one. So maybe it
is the best gig in town and every time
you try to leave they maybe do pull you
back in. I have come back every time. I
mean I think there's two parts about it.
One of which is I have left and I've
come back. And I think part of that is I
appreciate the company has always been
very supportive of the idea that maybe
even though we're a huge company today,
you can't always find that skill set
that you're looking for inhouse. You
kind of come into roles and sometimes
when you're looking to do something
different, you have to go somewhere else
and learn that. I think to be honest
though coming back has been always very
interesting because I am a working
mother. I have a wonderful husband who
pulls more than half of his load here at
home. But I really do appreciate that
S&P has allowed me to have a very
challenging, ambitious, engaging career.
I've gone from building product to
strategy and big picture strategy. But
I've also had the privilege of coming
home. My son can pick me out from a
crowd. I've been able to cook dinner for
him on the majority of his life the
first couple years after he was born. I
just stayed home. I didn't travel at
all. So, I appreciate that S&P has
really given me a place where I can
flourish as a professional, but I can
also have the work life balance that I
really aspire to because I love my son
and he's the best thing that I've ever
done, best product I've ever built
everywhere and I'm really proud to be a
really active part of his life. And do
you have a rating on your son? Well,
he's a freshman in high school. I have a
rating on my parenting skills and I may
not grade myself very high, but he is a
lovely, lovely young man. Well, I think
given what you just said about your
experience with S&P, that approach
deserves a AAA
rating and it's great to hear that and
S&P should get due credit for it. Not
every employer is as enlightened. And I
look at what happened during co I think
it allowed a lot more flexibility. And
there's two sides to this coin and I
kind of understand both sides but I
think we have thrown some of that away
which allowed the two spouse family to
raise children and deal with it. I've
got five of my own. My wife's a
physician. So I do understand those
challenges. So great that you were able
to make it work and great that S&P was
supportive of it. I'm very grateful to
them. I've always told them that as my
boss once said to me in private credit
such a hot topic to people approach was
like people will call me and ask me but
I am incredibly appreciative of the work
life balance that S&P affords me. I work
really really really hard. There's no
doubt that I'm I hope a big contributor
to the company but at the same time I
appreciate that the hybrid approach to
work really enables me to be home for
dinner and to do a lot of things that if
I had to commute every day would be
difficult to achieve. Glad you brought
that up. I've been a supporter spouse as
well, but a lot of credit to my wife
Liz. And she ended up giving up her
career thinking she'd go back, but never
did. But she has no regrets. And that's
the important part of life to never
regret. Absolutely. So on to the more
maybe more mundane world, the private
markets, but it's $2 trillion worth of
mundaness and big part of your life as
well. And there's a lot to cover there,
but maybe we could start with some
common vocabulary and sizing the market.
And every time I look at some credible
source, and maybe it's because part of
this market is opaque, it's hard to put
a number on how big private credit is in
total. And I see a number mostly around
twoish on its way to three and a half.
But what is the current state of play
from your vantage point, Ruth, in terms
of the size of the market? Some of it is
maybe a little reductive in approach,
but we do try to anchor against numbers
that make sense to people. So, we
estimate based upon Prequin's numbers
that there's about $1.7 trillion of
private credit outstanding. And when we
say private credit, what we're really
referring to is the private non-banking
funding of corporate borrowing. It's not
CLOS's per se. It's not securizations.
It's not project finance infrastructure.
It's not data centers. is not any of
that. It is more of a traditional
corporate borrower borrowing money for
M&A, capex, whatever it might be to fund
any corporate needs. And it stretches
from where private credit has really
scaled up in the last five years in
particular where it funds a billion
dollars or more on a consistent basis
that could normally go to the broadly
syndicated market or the bond market.
This is where private credit the
sponsors and privately funded and
funding raised through alternative
investment funds can fund these larger
transactions. And then there is this
abundance of direct lending small to
middlesiz enterprises that are we tag
them as $50 million or less in IBIDA but
smaller than that. the mom and pop
companies, the roll-ups of health care
that we see, pet cemeteries, pet
products, all of these different things,
all of the AI startups that we see
today. These young companies are out
there and they are funding their growth
through debt capital markets and not
just waiting for equity or private
equity infusions. And that has been
going on since the 1980s when BDC's were
created in order to support funding to
small to medium-siz enterprises. But it
is a very interesting market because it
isn't just the structure of funding
private credit. It is also there is a
growing size component. So when you look
at the rate at which that $1.7 or $2
trillion depending on which source you
use it from I think the most important
part is the projection that it will
double in size in three years. That's
really the most important number that we
can look at because it's the expectation
that it will grow so rapidly. And in
terms of percent of that market that you
or your peers in the rating agency
cover, what's the coverage ratio in
terms of if it's 1.7 or two trillion to
round it up, what percent is rated?
Private credit does not require a
rating. Like a bond market requires a
rating. Broadly syndicated has a market
need for a rating because it supports
market efficiency. Private credit as it
stands does not need to have a rating
for lenders to lend or borrowers to
borrow. of the $1.7 trillion S&P Global
ratings has about 3,000 transactions and
about 800 billion dollars of transaction
size that is covered by our credit
estimates. Our credit estimates are a
point in time rating that is part of the
middle market CLO rating process. But
the middle market CLOS's have been a
large important part of the growth of
the investor funding to this market and
it allows us to have really good insight
into what is going on in that not rated
but now privately rated part of the
market. So if I think about then guard
variety direct lending transaction. So
you've got a fund of XYZ GP gathered
assets raised the fund is now going out
and lending. Is that typically not rated
or rated or it depends? When we think
about the direct lending market as it
exists, there has been a growth of
private credit funds. But really where
the majority of the debt has come from
over the decades of it existing is
whenever a private equity fund raises a
fund and the GP goes out and buys a
company. We talk a lot about the equity
side and how the LP has this massive
ROI. More than half of the funding of
that acquisition though comes to the
debt capital markets and that's really
the origins of private credit. So
throughout the decades whenever a
private equity sponsor said I've spent
$700 million to buy this company their
equity contribution is 30 40 50% it's
growing share now in a tight financial
market but the other half is borrowed
and it's mostly borrowed in this market
through a bilateral transaction because
it's small enough they'll go find one
institutional investor insurance company
and say hey this is an amazing pet
product company if you fund the loan.
You'll get libbor 350 so for 400
whatever it might be today and they will
fund that deal. And now as you go up in
size private credit is originating now
larger and larger transactions 1 billion
up to35 billion and higher now those
will mostly be club deals. You won't
find one lender to them but you'll find
a club. Club is very different than a
syndicate. It's a much tighter
organization. There isn't secondary
market activity. There is a growing
number of larger transactions that are
being funded through club transactions
for either the club transaction or as an
adjunct to the private equity raising
where there is leverage. Any of that
paper rated? That's kind of where I mean
if it is a B minus or better credit a
piece of it will go into middle market
CLLO and that's where the asset manager
will place it and they'll get the
funding through that structure. All of
that rolls up into the $ 1.7 trillion
dollar estimate that we're talking
about, of which about half falls into
our coverage through credit estimates of
that market. Who's the primary user of
the rating that S&P puts on a particular
deal or company? If we're talking about
credit estimates, those exist only in a
middle market CLLO for the purposes of
the asset manager. So if we have one
loan that's sitting in a middle market
CLO and asset manager A is the asset
manager as part of the rating of the
middle market CLO we will require a
credit estimate. We have a small bucket
for unrated assets but in general for
middle market CLO we need a credit
estimate to have a clear line of sight
to the risk and performance of the
underlying asset. As a result of that
though, we have the 3,000 loans
transactions that we rate. We do publish
publicly and we can make it available
information on the performance of those
assets. So we look at default rates, we
look at transition rates, we look at
through the same lens that we look at
what we call our public ratings. Public
ratings are the rating that obviously
everybody sees and knows American
Airlines, Chrysler, whatever it might
be. Those are large public ratings where
we engage with the issuer. So, American
Airlines, Chrysler, United Airlines,
they engage with us for the purposes of
their rating, which allows them to raise
debt in the debt capital markets,
whether it be a bond, investment grade,
it gives them that optionality. We
talked about this before we hit the
record button and the surveillance
process and how important that is and
these ratings are not just a oneandone.
And talk about maybe what it means in
the public markets versus the private
markets. And there's some commonalities,
but some differences too, I assume. So
just to be clear, whether it's public or
a credit estimate or anything in
between, the surveillance is actually
the ongoing relationship. When we
publicly rate a borrower, any of the
public companies that we can think of
who has a public rating so that they can
raise debt, we rate at issuance the
asset or the issuer and then we surveil.
We have an ongoing relationship with her
where they update us with their
financials. They disclose to us anything
that might be happening. If they're
going to raise more debt, if they're
going to IPO, whatever it might be, we
have an ongoing relationship with them
so that we can maintain surveillance. If
at any point we do not get the
information from an issuer that we need
in order to maintain the rating, we
withdraw the rating and that is a
publicly disclosed moment. So, if you
see us rating something, it is not just
that we have initially rated it, it's
that we have the ongoing relationship in
order to maintain that rating. It never
ages as long as we are currently active
with them. We are constantly assessing
the rating so that we can maintain it.
Credit estimates are a little bit
different because they exist within the
framework of the middle market CLLO. In
that case, we are not engaging with the
issuer but we are engaging with the
asset manager. So the asset manager says
I have these 100 loans. I want to put
them into the middle market CLLO. Here
are audited financial statements, the
credit agreements. I mean there's a lot
of documentation we receive. We do not
engage with the borrower, the company
behind each of those loans, but the
asset manager is our relationship. They
are required to disclose if they learn
something is going on with the company,
right? Anything they learn, they are
required to disclose to us. They also
have to refresh their information every
year. Those credit estimates do require
an update every year from the asset
manager. It is a point in time
assessment of the credit. It is not the
same as a public rating, but it is a
part also of the whole middle market
rating process. Before we leave this,
just a couple of follow-ups. So, one, CV
light is in and out of the news cycle.
It was very very topical. I don't hear
so much of it anymore. Maybe more
systemic risk, which we can talk about
too. But you mentioned before, Ruth,
that the asset manager has a
responsibility to tell you what they
know. But is it possible they don't know
enough and that if it's CV light there
might not even be an interest coverage
ratio that's required which is a pretty
simple calculation but maybe they don't
have a visibility. How important are
these covenants and how do you view that
when you may be faced with an asset
manager that is not seeing everything
you'd like them to see in terms of early
bleed in terms of the underlying
company. So I think what's really
important when we talk about private
credit there's two pieces. Covenant
light is really endemic in the broadly
syndicated market. The quality of docks,
the looseness of the covenants, not just
having financial covenants and
maintenance covenants. There's a whole
thing like we've talked about the market
always talks about Jay Cruz sa CLA all
of these issues with assets being able
to disappear from the package over time.
Covenant light and the looseness of
documents is really a problem with a
broadly syndicated market. And again,
it's not just about financial covenant
maintenance. It's about the entire
quality of documentation. When we look
into private credit, first of all, the
asset manager, they are basically the
lender to the transactions. They do not
lightly enter into those agreements to
lend. The private credit really prides
itself and I think they've really
adhered to this to the closest of a
relationship between borrower and lender
or actually it's private equity sponsor
and the borrower and the lender. So I
think that all of the asset managers
really adhere to having a close
relationship before entering into those
agreements. The other thing we've seen
in private credit over the years is the
traditional part of private markets
which is direct lending lending. The
quality of documentation and the
presence of financial and maintenance
covenants is much much much higher than
when you cross over into one or two
billion dollar privately funded
transactions and higher where private
credit is competing with BSL market for
the same paper. We have seen more
covenant light and looser document
terms. We know that there is a weakening
of credit at the upper end of private
credit. But this is really where private
credit and public are competing for
space. And in times of high liquidity,
we've seen that those documents do
weaken. From our analysis, and we have a
lot of reports on this, we've basically
seen that dot quality in private credit
remains far stronger and more robust,
including financial covenants, than in
the BSL markets. Slightly changing
gears, I want to come back to these club
deals you mentioned before, which I
totally understand and see and I think
our listeners would be familiar or can
intuitively understand what that is. But
sometimes when you have these club
deals, it evolves into lender violence,
which we've seen in the news, too, where
it does matter where you are on the
capital stack. And maybe it does matter
how much ownership you have inside of
those club deals. We're starting to see
some of that. I don't expect it to be an
epidemic, but is this just an episodic
or could this potentially be an issue
and a challenge where we are today just
to disclose versus where we go if
interest rates do not continue to taper
as was forecasted for 2025 and 2026 and
the economy if we go into a recession we
will see defaults tick up. how any of
the credit markets perform in a real
default cycle is really uncharted
territory at this point. What we see
mostly in the BSL markets is really
where the lender on lender violence is I
think the biggest risk. So for me
there's two types of lender on lender
violence. There's the part of me that
has been in this market forever. Lender
and lender and violence in my world used
to be loan and bond stakeholders
competing against each other in a
restructure where bond guys would start
buying up loan shares so that they could
screw over the loan people or vice
versa. That used to be about your
position in the capital structure. Now
when we talk about lender on lender
violence, it's within one lending group
syndicate where some parts of the
lenders will get together and they will
prime the rest of the lenders. They'll
get together. They'll make an agreement
with the company or the sponsor and
they'll say, "Okay, we have enough
people to say we're going to take the
lion share and prime ourselves over
another." That's the direction we've
really gone on in lender livers. In
clubs, I don't actually think we see it
that often. What we do see in private
credit which is if defaults tick up
we're going to be very thoughtful about
is private credits tends to not go
through bankruptcy court and a
traditional very transparent
restructuring or a normal default. What
we see are a lot of selective defaults
which is a restructuring that is
basically going to impair part of the
capital structure not give a lender what
their expected outcome is. There's a lot
of ways we define it within ratings.
When we calculate default rates or when
we look at default rates in general, we
look at a normal default, which is a
bankruptcy and a restructuring, and then
we actually factor in the rate of
selective defaults. And with our credit
estimates analysis, like we saw this big
spike in selective defaults over the
last couple years during the
transactions, it's not a huge spike. I
think we ended up in the 6% range in
total which is far lower than we saw
during the great financial crisis but
you definitely see that the behavior I
think it's tied to the different types
of doc quality that we have changes and
yes parts of the lending group can get
together and not be aligned with the
rest of the lending group in an uptick
in defaults you will probably see more
of that behavior and these private
markets and you alluded to it a couple
of times here today Ruth they are opaque
full stop and there's nothing we don't
know about that that that's part of
playing in this playground but if I
think about where we have less opacity
it might be in the BDC space as an
example and I don't know if that's the
first canary in the coal mine we look at
but we are seeing BDC navs that are
maybe trading 20% down and greater
percentage of pick and the interest
component so I don't know if you rate
that space but should we view that as an
early indication of at least a flashing
yellow light and ultimately as you say
the economy is going to drive it if we
go into recession all bets are off. As a
friend of mine who is a mentor and
research says it's directionally
correct. He's absolutely right. So we do
rate BDC's as a word of disclaimer when
we rate a BDC we rate the structure. We
are not rating all of the underlying
assets. We do stress them based upon our
research and our analysis. We look at
the structure. To be fair, a lot of
ratings in the private markets sit at
the structure level. The way we rate
middle market CLOS, we have a clear line
of sight into the behavior of the
underlying assets. But for a BDC, for a
NAV facility, for a subline, right, we
are rating a structure. We are not
always rating the underlying assets
because the idea there is the investor
is sitting at the structure level. Even
for high- netw worth individuals, they
are not lending to a borrower. They are
investing in a structure. And we as a
rating agency want to assure that what
my friends and criteria always remind
me, we are matching the asset to the
liability. Can the structure repay the
investor on the terms the investor is
expecting to have back? And that's what
we look at. I do think that when we look
at BDC's overall, we do see that the
rise of non-performing assets, the rise
of picks, that is indicative of the
stress that private credit direct
lending has been under and the
transition to hire for longer. We also
through the lens of the credit estimates
do stress test because we have a lot
more granular information there. We look
at their capacity to take a lot more
pressure and I think that it is
problematic. we be problematic if we do
not see rate cuts. But I think when we
pressure test our credit estimates, what
we also realize is that these credits
and direct lending also need an economy
to stabilize and start to grow. I think
a recession is really going to be
difficult for these companies which have
made it through the transition to a
structurally higher cost of funding to
flourish and to grow and kind of regain
their footing. I would also ask people
to bear in mind when they think about
private credit, one of the cautionary
things about is when we look at default
rates. So when we rate in credit
estimates, what goes into a middle
market CLO is a B minus or better
credit. That's to support the structure
of middle market CLLO. A lot of private
credit, the traditional direct lending
side of it, side of it. A lot of these
companies are very young companies.
They're venture capital, early stage
growth equity. They're not meant to be a
Bminus risk of default or better because
they are startups. They're at an earlier
phase. And to be fair, their ability
over the last decade since the BDC was
formed in order to encourage SM lending,
the ability in the American economy for
a young company to borrow money to fuel
its growth, I think is really important
to the how innovative this economy is to
these young companies. You look at the
speed with which AI has come into their
business models or all of the things
that it's difficult for a bank to fund
whether it's cannabis or some of these
more peripheral business structures but
they are a part of the vibrancy of the
American economy. They have a higher
risk of default. It's the nature of the
beast. I think anybody who lends
directly to them sponsors for sure
recognize this. but they take that risk
because overall whether it's the ROI or
whatever, it works out for them
financially. We have to recognize
they're a slightly different animal than
when we think about American Airlines or
a speculative great company that's rated
B minus or better. There is going to be
a higher rate of default under pressure,
but they are meant to be that way
because more than half of venture
capital fails. Those are the odds. But
if these companies could not access the
debt capital markets over the years, I
think that we would maybe not have the
same diversity and vibrancy in our
economy that we have today. I look at
these companies and my 15-year-old son
may hate this joke, but I expect some of
these company models to be the kind of
company that employs him in 10 years
because it's a very different world than
what kind of business models were being
brought when I was in college.
100% on the same page with you. And it
used to be in the course of my career,
the small and micro cap public equity
markets were that home of innovation.
And now there's more and more capital in
the private markets. They're funding
these startup ecosystems in healthc care
as an example. And I do think about that
a lot as I get older and older. But you
think about just tech and artificial
intelligence and they may not go public
ever and they can have a pretty sizable
market cap because once they establish
themselves but it is a lot of risk
attached to it but that's a vibrant part
of our economy. We must get that we must
fund it and also we must find ways for
you and I as 401k investors for our own
retirement to get sensible access to
that. how and we accomplish that we
would need five years to talk about that
and we still might not figure it out but
it is an important point to make. It is
and that's obviously one of the things
that private equity sponsors aspire to.
I think the other thing that we need to
be thoughtful about as we figure out how
to bring business models and investment
opportunities to 401ks and individuals
is the difference between the micro cap
market that existed 20 years ago and the
private equity and I'm not advocating
for one or the other though is that with
private equity funding through ownership
and debt capital markets these young
companies they also are more adept I
think at executing on platforms and
rollups which is starting to combine
things together. When it was just an
equity funded world, it was hard to find
a peer and a partner to merge. That's
much more complicated. There is an
opportunity for us to make sensible
decisions, especially with so much
technology opportunities and scaling in
the market for people who have some
experience to sit and say, "Well, let's
piece things together and roll them up
and scale them up." But I think you do
need a certain level of transparency,
clarity, third party assessments on
these and visibility into market
dynamics where the opportunities for one
company or a rollup or the performance
of sponsors. You need some ability to
assess them before there is an opening
of the connection between individuals
and the retirement assets and private
credit. I agree and a bit of a shout out
to the sponsor of this platform, I
Capital. I think there's a lot of
technology solutions like that that are
going to be very important in solving
for this. Maybe in our remaining 10
minutes or so together, I'm going to try
to cram in three things. I want to talk
about rating agencies as private credit
goes from 2 to 4 trillion and gets more
retail or high net worth and more
democratized. What's leading the charge
on thought leadership? Because I know
you oversee that as well. and then maybe
finish if we have time on how Gen AI
might be impacting your business model.
Maybe not so much today, but as you look
in. So, a lot to pack into a few
minutes, but starting with this roadway
from 2 and a half or two, and I think
it's even frequent that says we're going
to get to three and a half to four and
most reputable people say that and I can
very much see that. I think the banks
are not going away, but the private
credit side of the street is getting
into the broadly syndicated market
themselves, too. I think regulation is
going to have to go up in that side of
the street. But as you get a buyer being
now a Foriac mutual fund as an example
or a day traded ETF, we've seen
something like that approved at the SEC
just a few weeks ago. I would have to
imagine the role and importance of a
rating agency is going to change and
evolve. And I know a lot of this is
speculation, but I'm sure you folks do
think about it. What is your view either
the future in general or more
specifically the role of rating agencies
in this next turn? I think that our role
remains the same. We provide a clear
line of sight into the risk of
investment, the risk of default. How
likely are if you lend money or you
invest in this asset, will you get back
what you are contracted to receive back
within the time frame that you are
contracting for? When we rate a company
as a AAA or a double B, it's a very
different rating, but it is part of the
same scale. Public or private, we rate
both. And our criteria and our subject
matter experts are the same. in a market
that becomes very opaque in a liquid
those things having a rating is really
really helpful because if we give you a
double B rating or a double A rating
what we are really focused on is
ensuring that our criteria and our
experts have assessed this and that if
you get a double B that all double B's
whether they are sovereigns, corporates,
public, private, they all behave within
a margin of error in a consistent way. A
double B is a double B to us. A double A
is a double A to us. We look at all of
these very complex transactions. We look
at NAV facilities. We look at alter
investment funds. And when we look at
these, we look at the complexity of the
transaction. We look at illiquidity of
assets versus highly liquid assets. We
look at all of those and we stress them
and we say, will you get out of this
what you're contracted to get out of
this? Matching asset to liability. So I
think the role of a rating agency is
very important in an opaque and complex
market to provide insight for large
investors who need a rating. And I think
having the perspective of S&P which has
a million transactions under
surveillance at any moment is very very
impactful. And then of course we take
our role in the market also very
seriously that we use those ratings to
inform our research and our thought
leadership and our commentary. So as the
market evolves, what are we seeing? And
then how do we share those insights and
information with the market in a very
measured and thoughtful way? We try very
hard to be always datadriven and to be
aligned with each other and to
understand what the others are seeing
and to give kind of a well-rounded
perspective. Private markets don't have
to have a rating. Generally, there has
to be a reason. Insurance is putting
capital in whatever it may be. There's
certain places when we talk to the
market about the role of ratings. It
actually is the same whether you have to
have us because you're regulated or you
are looking at us as an option to have a
rating. I think that either way we want
to do the same job. One followup before
we get on to thought leadership then
Ruth. So you said a moment ago that
double A is a double A. A double B is
double B full stop. And I absolutely
understand and appreciate that approach.
And maybe the answer is education, but
how do you think about the user and the
sophistication of that user changing and
they may be less sophisticated and maybe
they see double A is that's great and we
move on. Do you think about maybe it's
not even S&P's role? Perhaps that might
be the answer too with education, but as
you get a more democratized world where
there are buyers in a 40 act fund and
they're putting maybe too much weight on
a public accountant's opinion letter, on
a rating agency's rating. Is there a
thought on that? I mean, I think our job
is always to educate and make sure that
our information is accessible,
digestible to the audience that we are
in front of. There are a lot of places I
think it's fair to say that a rating is
just a rating to them. I don't know that
my mom is going to go buy a share of an
American Airlines bond or a spec grade
bond. That's not within their mandate.
But I think the performance of the
downgrade ratio, the default ratio,
whatever is going on between the ratings
category, that's really important
because it tells you how much pressure
there is in the system and how things
are going. And then through our credit
conditions committees, which we just ran
a update based upon the tariffs, we talk
more about the macro headwinds that
credit markets are facing. There is the
individual rating which I think is for
probably the more institutional more
sophisticated rating because they're
again not going to lend money to an
individual company. But as you aggregate
up and you talk about the dynamics and
credit conditions and credit headwinds
that is really geared for ensuring that
we can talk to anybody in the markets
about what is going on and how credit
market pressure is waxing or waning. So
it is always our job to talk about the
rating and anybody who wants to know
about a trip AAA or double A versus a
double B we're happy to talk about that
but then we also want to talk about what
is the part of the rating or the
research that is applicable to the
person who is curious or interested in
it. There's always something about
ratings that matter. Maybe it's not the
individual rating, but it's the
performance overall of the markets. And
we always want to be present and
accountable for educating and providing
insights, which is a great segue to
thought leadership. So, I went to your
LinkedIn profile and it says, "Click on
my website." I said, "Wow, Ruth has her
own website." But then it brings us to
the SAP thought leadership. And there's
a lot going on there. What is leading
your hit parade today in terms of the
top couple of ideas around thought
leadership? The things that we are very
focused on are the macro headwinds that
we talk about facing credit markets in
general which is the uncertainty that
comes from the administr about the rise
of tariffs. How the administration is
addressing the management of tariffs in
the United States the response globally
to it. We also have to remember that
this market has made a substantive
transition to a structurally higher cost
of funding. Three years ago, we were at
about 50 basis points or 100 basis
points at a borrowing cost and now we're
still at 350 375. We had originally
started this year thinking we would
expect two rate cuts. I think we're now
forecasting one rate cut with a higher
risk of an economic recession because of
how dynamics are changing right now.
When we think about thought leadership
and research, we are very much concerned
about the key clear risks to credit
health and performance. And we have a
bigger focus right now on a rising risk
of defaults across the market. We're
still not quite there, but you know, to
be fair to the credit markets between
COVID and then the transition higher for
longer and now the challenges that the
tariff policy is bringing to us, I think
we have to be really thoughtful about
how much more credit markets can endure
before we start seeing default start to
really tick up. Over these last couple
of weeks, everybody is fixated on this
massive fall in the equity markets. But
if there's anything that maybe toned the
rhetoric down, it was the bond markets.
the real economy and what was going on
in the US Treasury market that maybe
caused some of the minds to say maybe
we've gone too far too fast. So maybe
people don't pay attention to the credit
markets as much but that is the real
economy and the points you raised. It is
an important consideration and I think
that people have a better perspective on
it today. Absolutely. Last but not
least, everybody's talking about quantum
computing and generative AI and it's
coming from my job. When it comes to
going in and rating a company, there's
probably a list of things almost a
recipe that has to be followed and maybe
the genative AI bot can cover some of
this, but I think the human is always
going to be important too. Is S&P using
this? I assume that you are in some kind
of test kitchen, but is a wholesome part
of the process? And if it's not, I
assume someday soon it will be. It's
definitely part of one of our
priorities, right? I think when you look
at us as a company and S&P global
ratings as division, we are very
connected to generative AI. We are
trying to find ways very actively to
integrate it into our workflows.
We still also want to do it in a way
that recognizes its role in creating
efficiency and scalability, but we also
really know that our people, our subject
matter experts are also part of the
unique recipe that makes us global
ratings. So yes, we are definitely using
it. We've got a lot of places where it
helps us process data faster. It helps
us generate better visualizations. It
helps us process documents a little
faster. But we also have 2,000 subject
matter experts on credit and our
analytics team. We're also in there to
make sure that we bring that wealth of
knowledge and background and all of the
connections we make across ratings to
shape the future. I mean, I think when
we look at something like our ability to
rate securizations in private markets,
things that were securizations in real
estate five or six years ago, we're now
securizing a lot more esoteric things.
for not just songwriting but there's
securizations of infrastructure. There's
a lot of very complicated structures
that we're seeing especially with a rise
of private funding. Alter investment
managers are bringing us very unique
differentiated structures to rate as
part of that the whole structure and the
collateral changes. Having generative AI
as part of our toolkit in order to
assess large data sets is really really
important. Also having the ability to
talk to subject matter, experts in
songwriting, real estate, all of the
different asset classes that we cover.
That's also a really important part of
who we are. We want to maintain a
balance between the two. And it's
interesting if you think about rating
agencies, banks, insurance companies. I
spoke on a panel two weeks ago in
Atlanta and had the CFO of the city of
Atlanta on there and the amount of
alternative data they have. They know
who and when flushes a
toilet. That is powerful data around
water usage and the concentration of
population. So it is quite amazing that
I think of organizations like S&P and
you're already doing this figures out
how to utilize this data. The person
that owns this data is sitting in a very
very powerful position because if you're
going to rely on the internet as your
data pool or your data lake, look at
Twitter. There's so much nonsense on
there you don't know what to believe or
not believe. But you have good hard and
fast data which I think is a big big
plus today and into the future. Going
back to where we started this
conversation, right? Talking about
retail investors accessing private
credit. What's very interesting is
private credit markets are made up of a
lot of inefficient information systems.
It's a lot of unmapped data. They're in
data silos. One of my friends referred
to it as data jail, which is probably
true because they're unconnected,
non-standardized, non-normalized data.
Some of that data is proprietary. Nobody
wants to share some of that and that's
understandable. But a lot of it there's
an overlap. Like you look at the breath
of information in BDC's. There are
pieces of it out there. I think that
there is definitely a need as this
market grows and more retail investors
engage with it, which is the aspiration
of alternative investment managers to
jailbreak that data, connect it,
diminish some of the situational
transparency that exists and create more
systemic transparency for the market so
that when I talk to my mom about what's
going on in private credit, I have more
of a comprehensive data set behind it.
It helps to bring clarity and
understanding to the market and market
participants. And I think that's really
important. It is. And even talking to
your son at 15, I talk about career
alpha too. And often times alpha is
found in massive pockets of
inefficiency. And our whole industry,
financial services, no matter what
vertical you're in, is going through a
sea change unlike anything we've seen
going back decades and going forward.
And I think for the smart person coming
in or even somebody lowered to midcareer
that's making education their
responsibility really could find an
awesome home in this industry going
forward. I think absolutely and I think
young people who come in with an
understanding of data sets and genai and
stuff like that and how to tackle some
of these things. maybe my son one day
will help us solve some of these
problems and connect these data sets
because I think what's also very
interesting is they have a unique
perspective on what is meaningful to
come out of the data versus what I think
it is and when I talk to people who are
younger analysts in our groups they're
looking at those toilet flushes trying
to solve for a problem that I would
never in a million years try to solve
for but they are right it's remarkable I
learned a lot thanks Bill thank you you
for having me here I appreciate
[Music]
Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the Kai Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's
caia.org. See you next time.
