We both started on the trading desk uh
in a very different era.
>> Whether it was levered loans, high yield
bonds, the expectation was that they
were never going to trade. First, you
saw the evolution of the high yield bond
market and that was DTC eligible and
that those settled quickly and so you
start to see the trading of the high
yield bond market. levered loans sat on
banks balance sheets and one day you
know in the early 90s Jimmy Lee said why
shouldn't levered loans trade and really
that question is what prompted the
trading of levered loans and it's
incredible how when a product starts to
trade what goes from a very small
marketplace with just a handful of
players uh as transparency and education
start to compound it's the growth of an
asset class
>> yeah I I think that's what we're looking
at in private credit.
>> There's a lot of headline myths out
there about private credit, especially
private credit in the IG world. What do
you think a few of those myths are and
and how have we confronted the reality?
Yeah, I I I think when people talk about
private credit, I think a lot of our
competitors are talking about this small
pond of direct lending. That's a market
that's about a trillion8. We're really
talking generally around the investment
grade private credit market which is an
addressable market of about $40
trillion. And so
we're really focused on that much bigger
pool. You know, we deliver a couple of
things. We can deliver speed, certainty,
and scale. And so issuers are willing to
pay a little bit more for any of those
bespoke features. you know, as you point
out, both in the small pond of
non-investment grade direct lending and
in the large $40 trillion marketplace of
investment grade private credit. In both
instances, what we're providing is the
company with a financing opportunity
that the public markets did not offer
them. And whether it's with a large
company like Intel or ABNB, there was a
bespoke nature to our financing that
while the investment grade public market
would not have embraced that, we think
it's going to be a uh common uh
occurrence for companies investment
grade and non-investment grade to have
public and private tranches that
certainly allow the company the
flexibility and the financing needs.
Where do you think when you take a look
back at the in the high yield
marketplace that we saw in the 80s and
'9s and the adoption of high yield bonds
and broadly syndicated loans? That was a
multi-deade evolution. Where are we now?
>> I'd say we're somewhere between the
second and third inning of investment
grade private credit. We talk a lot
about the global industrial renaissance,
energy transition, data centers. These
are all investment grade companies that
need to spend huge dollars in capex. And
so they're going to need bespoke
solutions. Those solutions are going to
be found in the private credit markets.
>> Well, to your point, a lot of the growth
in the 80s and '9s were in industries
that were coming of age. The contrast
now is the capital needs are even longer
duration, 10, 20, 30 years. data
centers, transmission lines, and those
are typically areas of investment grade
companies.
Just address a little bit about our
relationship with the big financial
institutions, the big banks. Um, a lot
of headlines are are put forth about how
it's a big battle and how would you uh
summarize the overall relationship,
friend or foe?
>> The banks have have welcomed us with
open arms. I think they they realize the
direction of travel is that private
credit's going to become more liquid and
they can either be at the front of the
wave or they can be under the wave and I
think they've really embraced the fact
that they want to be our partners in
this. They have tremendous frontends.
They are great at generating assets.
They have great corporate and sponsor
relationships. We're never going to
build out a significant front end like
the banks do, but we want the assets and
it feels like it's a marriage made in
heaven. they get to keep their client
and we get to source an asset that we
want to own.
>> What's taken place in the uh Apollo
alternative asset trading platform
>> it was born out of providing good
service for our LPs and what comes with
the addition of transparency and
liquidity is you broaden the aperture
for the number of investors. We realized
that while we were providing the service
to our LPs of adding liquidity, we were
also solving the issue of public private
conversions. We've onboarded a few
hundred uh counterparties. We've added a
number of banks into the ecosystem. This
feels very much to me like the broadly
syndicated market in the mid to late
'90s.
>> One myth out there is that you only get
the incremental yield because of the
illquidity that you perceive that you're
giving up. We have really found that the
liquidity discount is not great but also
the premium that one receives for being
an issuer. It's really on the
origination side.
>> Origination is where alpha is created.
You're solving a problem for an issuer.
They need either speed, size or
certainty of execution. And I think that
that's where we can really add value. I
think what we have found time and time
again, it's the one who can originate in
scale that's going to harvest that
premium.
>> I don't see a scenario where there's a
there isn't a broad buyer base of all
these private assets. I think you will
actually see private credit trade more
actively than leverage loans. I think
you will see private credit in
the widest variety of investor hands.
And I think you end up seeing private
credit trading and clearing on chain at
some point in the notsodistant future.
