I'm going to show you how to build an
app using tools that simplifies the
development process. Tempo and Subbase.
Tempo is an intuitive AI powered
platform that lets you quickly design
and develop apps. And one of the
strongest feature is how it makes
building apps a collaborative experience
for your entire team. I'm going to walk
you through creating an app using Tempo
as the front end and Superbase as the
back end. Let's see how these two tools
come together to make an app development
faster and more efficient.
So to get started with Tempo, you can
head over to tempo.new. This is their
website. As you can see, there's a lot
of collaborative things going on here.
Um, you know, backed by W cominator,
which is super cool. Uh, but yeah, we
can just press get started to get
started with our project. And, uh, you
get two options. You get generate an app
or you can just connect it to a GitHub
repository to get started with working
on existing code bases. I'm going to
start from scratch. So, I'm going to
click get started with an app. And you
get a few options here. You can start it
with V, Nex.js or Expo. I'm just going
to um keep it as V. And for a DB, you
get a few options. We will be using
Superbase, but we can just leave this
blank for now. We can just get started
with a blank template. And later on, we
can add uh Superbase. Let me get started
with this. So the tool or app that we're
building today, I think we're going to
build a CRM because it has it's somewhat
complex. So I get to show off some of
its um you know development capabilities
of Tempo. It's easy way to showcase a
lot of the features that are available
with the two tools that we're going to
be using today. So let me just start
with
that. Create a CRM tool that the sales
team can use to manage their leads. Add
a sales pipeline to manage their deals.
Make sure we can track the revenue or
revenue
projections and add features to track
activities uh for our sales team.
So just like that I got my initial
prompt. Let's hit
next. And we are in here within the
tempo uh dashboard or the page where all
the magic
happens. So there's a few things going
on but uh in the middle we have this uh
PRD. So Tempo's creating a nice looking
diagram that kind of breaks down how to
go about creating this application. And
once that's done, it then moves on to
creating the design um based on those um
diagrams.
And what's cool with tempo is we can um
kind of go back and refine the diagrams
and then we can ask AI to update the
design or app based on that those
diagrams.
And within this design, what's cool is
um you not only get the initial uh
landing page or the homepage, but it
creates the design for all the pages or
all the subpages that are available and
kind of displays it to you in a nicel
looking UI and the AI has done doing its
thing. And so we have three tabs up
here. We have the P tabs which we can
see the diagram. If I can zoom
in. There you go. So we have a CRM um
dashboard which has I guess three
sections or four section leads manage
lead management
panel interactive sales
pipeline revenue dashboard and activity
tracker and quick actions.
And each one of them has uh you know
other branches spamming off of it. But
we can jump into the design tab which we
can view the core design of what's going
on within this uh CRM app. So within the
homepage I guess we have a few menu
items pipeline leads revenue activities
and within the pipeline we have the
sales pipeline where the sales team keep
keeps track of um deals in a cam board
style
page. So here's the sales pipeline.
Here's the lead management tab. Not not
exactly sure how you can Okay, so I
guess lead management is this lead menu
and then revenue dashboard is this
revenue button. So that should open this
page. And there was another one, wasn't
there? Activities. Not sure where the
activities went to.
But what we can do is we can press this
um play button to view a full screen
preview of the app that the AI created.
So we can click le revenue
pipeline and I guess there is an
activity uh tracker going on as well. I
found that temple generally does a
really good job of creating the initial
version. Uh but the idea is that you can
from here kind of add on top of what um
the initial uh version gave you and like
for example if you you know didn't like
certain design or certain you know
whatever aspect of it you can kind of
ask the to modify
it but for now I think this is a really
good starting point. I am pretty happy
with what the gave me. So I'm going to
connect this to Superbase. So uh right
here there's a connect to Superbase
button. We can just click that and it'll
take you to authorizing um tempo to
access your Superbase um orgs. If you do
not have a Superbase project yet, you
can create one by heading over to
database.new and create your first
Superbase project. But I've already
created one. Uh so I'm here in the
authorization page. I'm just going to
authorize my examples
or and once I do that I need to
authorize which um project I want to
connect it to. So I'm going to choose
this Tempo CRM that I've created for
this particular project. So you need to
create your project first and then come
back and connect it to Temple. And yeah,
connecting to Temple shouldn't take that
long. It should just take a few seconds.
But once everything is connected, we can
go back to chatting with AI. So this uh
purple logo up here brings up this um
text field that allows us to chat to the
AI to update the app. And we can just
ask the AI to I have connected Superbase
to this project. So please create the
tables, triggers, functions, whatever
necessary to set up this application
um on
superbase and also set up authentication
too. So let's see if you know how good
of a job the AI does this and you know
uh generally in any kind of AI
development there's there could be some
hiccups and if there are that's that's
part of the process and that's why um us
humans are still here right uh AI hasn't
entirely taken over our jobs yet so
let's see what it can come up with so I
am back here after AI did its thing as
You can see we now have a login page and
a uh register page. So you can see that
it setting up authentication. If you
look at the chat window over here, you
can see that you know it's it did
certain things set up super tables and
whatnot. I implemented
authentication database triggers
functions
uh and secure the tables using roller
security. That's great. That's very
important. But it also has some uh
remaining subtasks. And at the end it's
asking me would you like me to continue
implementing the remaining subtasks.
Let's see what the subtasks are. Update
the lead management component. Use
superbase for data fetching. Yeah. Yes,
please. Uh update sales pipeline to use
superbase. Okay. So it's pretty much it
set up all the superbase tables and
authentication but it hasn't connected
the front end to superbase meaning it's
it's not actually fetching all the data
from the superbase database yet. So
let's ask AI to just continue doing its
thing. Uh so yes
please I suppose did I misspel please?
Yeah that's fine. Let's take a look at
the superase table that we have. So we
can just head over to the dashboard from
within the sub I mean tempo menu and we
can see the activities table ID title
description activity type scheduled at
completed
at lead ID deal ID so it's able to you
know generate uh foreign keys as well
awesome and user ID I suppose this is
assoc associated to the authorized or
authenticated
user deals. I think it's something
similar. We have a company field, value
field, so how much the deal is worth,
probability, how likely the deal is
likely to close. The standard sales, um,
you know, deal management stuff. Um, and
I assume we have a user ID as
well. So the user ID is key here because
it's it's what associates the supervis
authentication to this table. and
restricts you know who can view uh this
table and who can't and stuff like that
leads something similar we have a use ID
name company email phone status
priority and users table I suppose this
is the okay so this is the users table
within public schema so in superbase we
have a users table within the o schema
as well but this is just user this table
in the public schema to manage the users
of this CRM application. So you know it
obviously multiple people can use the
CRM application and this just handles um
all those users that are using this CM
applications. Um, but let's go back to
our dashboard of tempo and it's still
doing its
magic. Um, so yeah, we can just come
back after AI is done doing its thing.
And I'm back here and it seems like
there are still a few remaining
subtasks. So I'm just going to ask AI to
just keep going with it. So yes, please.
And we are finally done with everything
I believe. So I updated the deal card
component to import deal type superase
blah blah blah. Um yep comp. So it has
updated a few things here and there to
make it compatible with the table that I
created on
superbase and it sounds like it has done
all the integration. Let me just check
one thing in
authentication. So if we go to sign in
sign up providers in
email. So this is one thing that uh any
of any of these AI editor um kind of
trips over. And so I'm assuming this app
uses email plus password sign in which
it
is. Uh so in a production
application you can use whatever u sign
in you want to use right um usually
these days I personally try to avoid
email plus uh password sign in whenever
possible I try to go with Google signin
just because it's easier and you know
who doesn't have a Google account but
for these type of application when you
just want to get up and running uh
setting up Google authentication takes a
few more steps just because you have to
register this thing on Google Cloud and
get this some kind of key and register
it over here and whatnot. And it it it
does take a few more overlaps um than um
just doing just going with the email
plus password authentication. So email
plus password authentication is by far
the easiest to go with. However,
especially when you're just testing
things out, uh this confirm email field
in a production app, you want this to be
on. What this field does is when it's
turned on, when a user signs up to your
service, it'll Superbase will send them
a confirmation email saying, "Hey, did
you sign up for this um whatever service
this is? Uh here's a link that you can
click on and you can confirm your email
address by clicking onto that link. Now
uh by turning this off, I get to just
sign up and get started using the
service. I don't have to go through that
email uh sign up and um doing whatnot.
So if you're just quickly testing things
out, it kind of makes things faster. But
in a production app, you should always
have it enabled. I'm just going to have
it disabled because I just want to, you
know, quickly demo this application
quickly take a look at uh, you know,
this application uh, whether how exactly
it's working and whether it's actually
working out or not. So, I've gone ahead
and gone into the preview again. We have
a nice login page or I can jump over to
the signup page. I'm going to sign up
with my name and email address
tyler@sup.io. I'm going to use my secure
sec secure
password and that is
a super
secure
password. Create account. Um let's not
remember that. So I'm in this CRM.
Obviously everything is blank because
I'm just I just signed up. Um I haven't
really added any data. We do have some
data in here which is which shouldn't be
there because it should be blank. I just
sign up signed up. But uh we can just go
back and fix that maybe. So let's start
with uh adding a lead. So here's a add a
lead and here's add new lead. I don't
know what the difference is. Um let me
try. Yeah, let's Okay, I guess this
button doesn't do anything. So, maybe
that's one thing we can fix. But let's
add a new lead. Um, Tyler
Sugar Superbase email is Tyler
at superbase.io Hey yo. 0 0
0 status new
priority super high
value two
billion. Oops. How did I delete this?
Zero 200 USD. Why not? I don't
know. So, we have a lead in there. Let's
go check out our Superbase database.
And we can see this new lead coming in
there, which is great. Now, I wonder if
we can create a deal that is associated
to a lead. And it's looking like this
add deal button. Neither one of them are
working. So, there's
that. Export report. Sure. schedule
activity. So these buttons are not
working
either. Okay. So maybe that's that's a
homework that we can take back to
um our
AI. Great. So within the P pipeline page
and activities page um the button to add
pipelines and activities uh are not
working. So, make sure they are properly
working. Also, for the leads page,
there's extra button that does not do
anything. It doesn't pop up a dialogue
to create a new lead or anything. So,
maybe just get rid of any of the extra
buttons that are u not
working. Should be good.
Let's let the AI do its magic and come
back once it's uh done again. So, it
says AI has finished uh fixing all the
stuff. Let's go back and check it out.
Let me refresh the page just in
case.
And guess there are still
two deal button to lead page. Okay, I
guess both of these are
functional. I wish if it removed one of
them at
least. Um, in
[Music]
activities, I wonder if I'm doing
something wrong. And it's supposed to
meant to work like
this. Let's see. So add a functionality
to add new lead button to the lead
management component by giving it ID
that can be
targeted. Fix the
buttons
H. So we can preview these
dashboards like interact with these
dashboards by pressing this uh preview
mode. And let me see if I can make it do
anything.
No, it's
not doing anything. When I click on the
edit
button, so I can add a new
lead. That's cool.
Um, let me go back to the previous page
or let's see.
Add new lead. Fix the buttons. Set the
home component header. May the add lead
button trigger the lead
dialogue. Toast notification. Okay. Fix
the floating action button in the bottom
right. Made it trigger. Add lead
dialogue when it's in the lead tab. So
if we're on the lead tab and press
this, this triggers adding a new lead.
Okay.
But when we're in pipeline, it doesn't
do anything. Fix a floating action
button. Fixing the schedule activity
button in the activities card to show a
toast
notification in the sales pipeline
component to show a toast
notification. There's no way to add a
new deal or activities. So, make sure
there is a way for us to add deals and
activities to this
app. So, let's see. The AI has done its
thing. It has
implemented add dialogue. Add activity
dialogue. Activity checker component.
It looks like it did what I asked it to
do. So let's refresh the page and see
what we have. So within the
pipeline. Okay. So we have this add
deal dialogue.
Now stage priority profitability contact
person. The question that I have is
within deal we have okay I guess within
deal we only have reference to user ID
but activities we have
um deal ID and lead lead
ID. So activity is associated to a deal
and a lead. Uh so let's just create a
deal with
superbase contact person Tyler. Maybe
it's kind of confusing that I'm using my
name for
everything. Deal value 200 probability
20%. Prospect medium priority high and
add deal button is not working. I wonder
if we
have some kind of console error and
surely we do
error creating a deal role security
issue. So let's take a look at what kind
of role security policies we
have and okay surely we don't have any
rollable security policies for deals and
activities. I wonder if that was the
reason
why it wasn't working earlier, but okay.
Uh I'm getting rollable security issues
with deals and activities. And I looked
at the Superbase dashboard and saw that
there was no rollable security policies
for deals or the activities table. Make
sure proper roll security policies are
set for those tables and make sure
they're secure, too.
All right, let's wait for Temple to do
its thing then. And now we got some
issues it seems like. Let's see. It
tries to tried to run some
SQL and it failed. Not sure what what
exactly the SQL was, but um so it's
trying to add tables to real time
publication. Basically enabling real
time for the table. Not exactly sure why
exactly it wanted to do that. But we can
uh whatever the problem is, we can just
ask it to uh fix by clicking this fix
with AI button. And nice thing about
tempo is that it doesn't charge you
anything for fixing errors that it has
detected like this. So we can just click
it without any hesitation and it has
returned. It seems like it resolved all
the issues that ha it had. Um let's
check out the roville security policies.
It has a users can only see their
activity policies. So it has a single
all policy that um off UID equals UID
which works in this case. Yeah, that is
a valid uh role security policy for this
particular applications. As far as we uh
have gone so far, the only person that
ever is ever going to open this
application is um that user.
If we were to take this application to
the next level, we might want to add
like a role based authorization where
you CRM are not that helpful if I'm just
using it by myself. Instead, you should
share these data with your colleagues at
your company um with your sales team or
across all the teams or whatever. So in
that case, this particular role security
policy isn't going to work. But for the
sake of this demo today, I think it's a
good start and I'm just going to stick
with it. So, we have a lead. Let's see
if we can create
a deal. Contact person Tyler deal value
200 probably. Um, that's all good. Okay.
So, now we can create a deal. And it
looks like here is how I can create an
activity. So, if I call this person, I'm
assuming I can just click this or click
this. I wonder what this is. Advanced
deal H. So, I clicked a few of them.
Couldn't really do anything, but uh this
schedule activity dialogue is now
working. And it looks like we have Oh,
so an activity can be associated to
either a deal or lead. This is pretty
cool. I didn't really think about this.
Um activity title.
Um kickoff
meeting call date. That's good. Let's
have it associated to a deal. Um, it
went
awesome. And we can hit schedule
activity. And there you go. We have a
kickoff meeting. Um, that was scheduled
or that
was in this case in my mind, I had it
thinking that we did it. But either way,
we have it right here in the database.
And do as well, we have it right here in
the database. And if we take a look at
this uh activity the there's a deal ID
and we can click open the associated
deal of this do ID and we can confirm
that this activity is associated to this
deal. Very cool.
Okay. Uh so yeah that is the basics of
how you can build an application with
superbase and tempo and I know that we
have some homeworks fixing maybe this
revenue dashboard making sure that it
properly fetches fetches the data from
superbase
um hopefully from the deal and maybe
does some kind of forecasting or
something but doing that implementing
that particular feature is just a matter
of uh just talking to the AI a few more
times and I think by this point you get
the idea of how easy it is to build a
fullyfledged application using tempo and
superbase. I love the beautiful UI that
it was able to create pretty much it had
this uh beautiful UI on the initial
prompt, right? I love the fact that it's
able to spin up this beautiful UI with
the simple prompt that we started with
and it's able to add these features just
by asking the AI, you know, fix this,
fix that, do this, and whatnot. And it
was able to make my robo security policy
very secure. How far you want to take
this tool is really up to you. Uh but
yeah, Tempo is for very serious
development teams. I didn't have the
chance of diving into this collaborative
aspect of Tempo, but do check it out.
very awesome tool and make sure to
connect it to Superbase and keep
building cool
