[music]
[music] This is the memo by Howard Marx.
Is it a bubble? [music]
Ours is a remarkable moment in world
history. A transformative technology is
ascending and its supporters claim it
will forever change the world. To build
it requires companies to invest a sum of
money unlike anything in living memory.
News reports are filled with widespread
fears that America's biggest
corporations are propping up a bubble
that will soon pop. During my visits to
clients in Asia and the Middle East last
month, I was often asked about the
possibility of a bubble surrounding
artificial intelligence, and my
discussions gave rise to this memo. I
want to start off with my usual caveats.
I'm not active in the stock market. I
merely watch it as the best barometer of
investor psychology. I'm also no techie
and I don't know any more about AI than
most generalist investors. But I'll do
my best. One of the most interesting
aspects of bubbles is their regularity.
Not in terms of timing, but rather the
progression they follow. Something new
and seemingly revolutionary appears and
worms its way into people's minds. It
captures their imagination and the
excitement is overwhelming. The early
participants enjoy huge gains. Those who
merely look on feel incredible envy and
regret and motivated by the fear of
continuing to miss out pile in. They do
this without knowledge of what the
future will bring or concern about
whether the price they're paying can
possibly be expected to produce a
reasonable return with a tolerable
amount of risk.
The end result for investors is
inevitably painful in the short to
medium term, although it's possible to
end up ahead after enough years have
passed. I've lived through several
bubbles and read about others, and
they've all heeded to this description.
One might think the losses experienced
when past bubbles popped would
discourage the next one from forming,
but that hasn't happened yet, and I'm
sure it never will. Memories are short
and prudence and natural risk aversion
are no match for the dream of getting
rich on the back of a revolutionary
technology that everyone knows will
change the world. I took the quote that
opens this memo from Derek Thompson's
November 4th newsletter entitled AI
could be the railroad of the 21st
century. Brace yourself about parallels
between what's going on today in AI and
the railroad boom of the 1860s.
Its word forword applicability to both
shows clearly what's meant by the phrase
widely attributed to Mark Twain, history
rhymes.
Understanding bubbles
before diving into the subject at hand
and having read a great deal about it in
preparation, I want to start with a
point of clarification.
Everyone asks, is there a bubble in AI?
I think there's ambiguity even in the
question. I've concluded there are two
different but interrelated bubble
possibilities to think about. One in the
behavior of companies within the
industry and the other in how investors
are behaving with regard to the
industry. I have absolutely no ability
to judge whether the AI company's
aggressive behavior is justified. So
I'll try to stick primarily to the
question of whether there's a bubble
around AI in the financial world. The
main job of an investment analyst,
especially in the so-called value school
to which I subscribe, is to a study
companies and other assets and assess
the level of and outlook for their
intrinsic value and b make investment
decisions on the basis of that value.
Most of the change the analyst
encounters in the short to medium term
surrounds the assets price and its
relationship to underlying value. That
relationship in turn is essentially the
result of investor psychology.
Market bubbles aren't caused directly by
technological or financial developments.
Rather, they result from the application
of excessive optimism to those
developments.
As I wrote in my January memo on bubble
watch, bubbles are temporary manias in
which developments in those areas become
the subject of what former US Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan called
irrational exuberance.
Bubbles usually coales around new
financial developments. for example, the
South Sea Company of the early 1700s or
subprime residential mortgage back
securities in 2005 to06 or technological
progress optical fiber in the late 1990s
and the internet in 1998 to 2000.
Newness plays a huge part in this
because there's no history to restrain
the imagination. The future can appear
limitless for the new thing. And futures
that are perceived to be limitless can
justify valuations that go well beyond
past norms, leading to asset prices that
aren't justified on the basis of
predictable earning power.
The role of newness is well described in
my favorite passage from a book that
greatly influenced me, a short history
of financial euphoria by John Kenneth
Galbrath. Galbra wrote about what he
called the extreme brevity of the
financial memory and pointed out that in
the financial markets past experience to
the extent that it is part of memory at
all is dismissed as the primitive refuge
of those who do not have the insight to
appreciate the incredible wonders of the
present. In other words, history can
impose limits on all regarding the
present and imagination regarding the
future. In the absence of history, on
the other hand, all things seem
possible.
The key thing to note here is that the
new thing understandably inspires great
enthusiasm, but bubbles are what happen
when the enthusiasm reaches irrational
proportions. Who can identify the
boundary of rationality? Who can say
when an optimistic market has become a
bubble? It's just a matter of judgment.
Something that occurred to me this past
month is that two of my best calls came
in 2000 when I cautioned about what was
going on in the market for tech and
internet stocks and in 2005 to07 when I
cited the der of risk aversion and the
resulting ease of doing crazy deals in
the pre- global financial crisis world.
First, in neither case did I possess any
expertise regarding the things that
turned out to be the subjects of the
bubbles, the internet and subprime
mortgage back securities. All I did was
render observations regarding the
behavior taking place around me. And
second, the value in my calls consisted
mostly of describing the folly in that
behavior, not in insisting that it had
brought on a bubble.
Struggling with whether to apply the
bubble label can bog you down and
interfere with proper judgment. We can
accomplish a great deal by merely
assessing what's going on around us and
drawing inferences with regard to proper
behavior.
What's good about bubbles? [music]
Before going on to discuss AI and
whether it's presently in a bubble, I
want to spend a little time on a subject
that may seem somewhat academic from the
standpoint of investors. The upside of
bubbles. You may find the attention I
devote to this topic excessive, but I do
so because I find it fascinating. The
November 5th strategy newsletter was
entitled The Benefits of Bubbles. In it,
Ben Thompson, no relation to Derek,
cites a book titled Boom: Bubbles and
the End of Stagnation. It was written by
Burn Hobart and Tobias Huber, who
proposed that there were two kinds of
bubbles. Inflection bubbles, the good
kind of bubbles, as opposed to the much
more damaging mean reversion bubbles
like the 2000's subprime mortgage
bubble. I find this a useful dichotomy.
The financial fads I've read about or
witnessed, the South Sea Company,
portfolio insurance, and subprime
mortgagebacked securities stirred the
imagination based on the promise of
returns without risk. But there was no
expectation that they would represent
overall progress for mankind.
There was, for example, no thought that
housing would be revolutionized by the
subprime mortgage movement, merely a
feeling that there was money to be made
from backing new buyers. Hobart and
Huber called these mean reverting
bubbles, presumably because there's no
expectation that the underlying
developments would move the world
forward. Fads merely rise and fall.
On the other hand, Hobart and Huber call
bubbles based on technological progress,
as in the case of the railroads and the
internet inflection bubbles. After an
inflection-driven bubble, the world will
not revert to its prior state. In such a
bubble, investors decide that the future
will be meaningfully different from the
past and trade accordingly.
As Thompson tells us, the definitive
book on bubbles has long been Carlato
Perez's Technological Revolutions and
Financial Capital. Bubbles were are
thought to be something negative and to
be avoided, particularly at the time
Perez published her book. The year was
2002, and much of the world was in a
recession coming off the puncturing of
the dot bubble. Perez didn't deny the
pain. In fact, she noted that similar
crashes marked previous revolutions,
including the industrial revolution,
railways, electricity, and the
automobile.
In each case, the bubbles were not
regrettable, but necessary. The
speculative mania enabled what Perez
called the installation phase, where
necessary, but not necessarily
financially wise investments laid the
groundwork for the deployment period.
What marked the shift to the deployment
period was the popping of the bubble.
What enabled the deployment period were
the money losing investments.
This distinction is very meaningful for
Hobart and Huber and I agree. They say
not all bubbles destroy wealth and
value. Some can be understood as
important catalysts for technoscientific
progress.
But I would restate as follows. Mean
reversion bubbles in which markets soar
on the basis of some new financial
miracle and then collapse destroy
wealth. On the other hand, inflection
bubbles based on revolutionary
developments accelerate technological
progress and create the foundation for a
more prosperous future and they destroy
wealth. The key is to not be one of the
investors whose wealth is destroyed in
the process of bringing on progress.
Hobart and Huber go on to describe in
greater depth the process through which
bubbles finance the building of the
infrastructure required by the new
technology and thus accelerate its
adoption. Most novel technology doesn't
just appear ex nilo that is from nothing
entering the world fully formed and all
at once rather it builds on previous
false starts failures iterations and
historical path dependencies. Bubbles
create opportunities to deploy the
capital necessary to fund and speed up
such large-scale experimentation, which
includes lots of trial and error done in
parallel, thereby accelerating the rate
of potentially disruptive technologies
and breakthroughs.
By generating positive feedback cycles
of enthusiasm and investment, bubbles
can be net beneficial. Optimism can be a
self-fulfilling prophecy. Speculation
provides the massive financing needed to
fund highly risky and exploratory
projects. What appears in the short term
to be excessive enthusiasm or just bad
investing turns out to be essential for
bootstrapping social and technological
innovations. A bubble can be a
collective delusion, but it can also be
an expression of collective vision.
That vision becomes a site of
coordination for people and capital and
for the parallelization of innovation.
Instead of happening over time, bursts
of progress happen simultaneously across
different domains. And with mounting
enthusiasm comes increased risk
tolerance and strong network effects.
The fear of missing out or FOMO attracts
even more participants, entrepreneurs,
and speculators, further reinforcing
this positive feedback loop. Like
bubbles, FOMO tends to have a bad
reputation. But it's sometimes a healthy
instinct. After all, none of us wants to
miss out on a once- ina-lifetime chance
to build the future.
In other words, bubbles based on
technological progress are good because
they excite investors into pouring in
money, a good bit of which is thrown
away, to carpet bomb a new area of
opportunity and thus jumpstart its
exploitation.
The key realization seems to be that if
people remained patient, prudent,
analytical, and value insistent, novel
technologies would take many years and
perhaps decades to be built out.
Instead, the hysteria of the bubble
causes the process to be compressed into
a very short period with some of the
money going into lifechanging investment
in the winners, but a lot of it being
incinerated.
A bubble has aspects that are both
technological and financial, but the
examples just mentioned are from the
standpoint of people who crave
technological progress and are perfectly
happy to see investors lose money in its
interest. We on the other hand would
like to see technological progress but
have no desire to throw away money to
help bring it about. Ben Thompson ends
this discussion by saying this is why
I'm excited to talk about new
technologies, the prospect for which I
don't know.
I love the fact that he's excited by
future possibilities and at the same
time admits that the shape of the future
is unknown. In our world, we might say
very risky.
Assessing the current landscape.
[music]
Now, let's get down to what we used to
call brass tax. What do we know? First,
I haven't met anyone who doesn't believe
artificial intelligence has the
potential to be one of the biggest
technological developments of all time,
reshaping both daily life and the global
economy. We also know that in recent
years, economies and markets have become
increasingly dependent on AI. AI is
responsible for a very large portion of
companies total capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures on AI capacity
account for a large share of the growth
in US GDP.
AI stocks have been the source of the
vast majority of the gains of the S&P
500.
As a fortune headline put it on October
7th, 75% of gains, 80% of profits, 90%
of capex, AI's grip on the S&P is total,
and Morgan Stanley's top analyst is very
concerned. Further, I think it's
important to note that whereas the gains
in AI related stocks account for a
disproportionate percentage of the total
gains in all stocks, the excitement AI
injects into the market must have added
a lot to the appreciation of nonAI
stocks as well.
AI related stocks have shown
astronomical performance led by Nvidia,
the leading developer of computer chips
for AI. From its formation in 1993 and
its initial public offering in 1999,
when its estimated market value was 626
million, Nvidia briefly became the
world's first company worth $5 trillion.
That's appreciation of around 8,000x
or roughly 40% a year for 26 plus years.
No wonder imaginations have been fired.
What are the areas of uncertainty?
[music]
I think it's fair to say that while we
know AI will be a source of incredible
change, most of us have no idea exactly
what it will be able to do, how it will
be applied commercially, or what the
timing will be, who will be the winners,
and what will they be worth? If a new
technology is assumed to be a world
changer, it's invariably assumed that
the leading companies possessing that
technology will be of great value. But
how accurate will that assumption prove
to be? As Warren Buffett pointed out in
1999, the automobile was the most
important invention probably of the
first half of the 20th century. If you
had seen at the time of the first cars
how this country would develop in
connection with autos, you would have
said this is the place I must be. But of
the 2,000 companies as of a few years
ago, only three car companies survived.
So autos had an enormous impact on
America, but the opposite direction on
investors.
Time January 23rd, 2012. In AI, there
are some very strong leaders at present,
including some of the world's strongest
and richest companies. But new
technology is notoriously disruptive.
Will today's leaders prevail or give way
to upstarts? How much will the arms race
cost? And who will win? Similarly,
what's a share in an upstart worth?
Unlike front runners worth trillions,
it's possible to invest in some would-be
challengers at enterprise values in mere
billions or even might I say millions.
On June 25th, 2024, CNBC reported as
follows. A team founded by college
dropouts has raised $120 million from
investors led by primary venture
partners to build a new AI chip to take
on Nvidia. Etched CEO Gavin Uberti said
the startup is betting that as AI
develops, most of the technologies
power- hungry computing requirements
will be filled by customized hardwired
chips called AS6. If Transformers go
away, we'll die," Uber told CNBC. "But
if they stick around, we're the biggest
company of all time."
Even granting the possibility that Etch
won't become the biggest company of all
time, if success could give them a
valuation justifi's
peak, a mere $1 trillion,
what probability of success would be
required to justify an investment of
$120 million?
Assuming for simplicity's sake that the
investment was for a 100% ownership
stake, all you need is a belief that
achieving the trillion dollar value has
a probability of onetenth of a percent
for an expected return of over 8 times
your money. Who's to say etched doesn't
have that chance? And in that case, why
would anyone not play? The foregoing is
what I call lottery ticket thinking in
which the dream of an enormous payoff
justifies no compels participation in an
endeavor with an overwhelming
probability of failing.
There's nothing wrong with calculating
expected values this way. Leading
venture capitalists engage in it every
day to great effect, but assumptions
regarding the possible payoffs and their
probabilities must be reasonable.
Thinking about a trillion dollar payout
will override reasonleness in any
calculation.
Will AI produce profits and for whom?
Two things we know little or nothing
about are the profits AI will produce
for vendors and its impact on nonAI
companies primarily meaning those who
employ it. Will AI be a monopoly or
duopoly in which one or two leading
companies are able to charge dearly for
the capabilities? Or will it be a highly
competitive free-for-all in which a
number of firms compete on price for
users spending on AI services, making it
a commodity? Or perhaps most likely,
will it be a mix of leading companies
and specialized players, some of whom
compete on price and others through
proprietary advantages?
It's said that the services currently
responding to AI queries such as Chat,
GPT, and Gemini lose money on every
query they answer. Of course, it's not
unusual for participants in a new
industry to offer loss leaders for a
while. Will the leading tech firms used
to success in winner take all markets be
content to experience losses in their AI
businesses for years in order to gain
share? Hundreds of billions of dollars
are being committed to the race for AI
leadership. Who will win and what will
be the result? Likewise, what will be
AI's impact on the companies that use
it? Clearly, AI will be a great tool for
enhancing users productivity by among
other things replacing workers with
computer sourced labor and intelligence.
But will this ability to cut costs add
to the profit margins of the companies
that employ it? or will it simply enable
price wars among those companies in the
pursuit of customers? In that case, the
savings might be passed on to the
customers rather than garnered by the
companies. In other words, is it
possible AI will increase the efficiency
of businesses without increasing their
profitability?
Should we worry about so-called circular
deals? In the telecom boom of the late
1990s, in which optical fiber became
overbuilt, fiber owning companies
engaged in transactions with each other
that permitted them to report profits.
If two companies own fiber, they just
have an asset on their books. But if
each buys capacity from the other, they
can both report profits. So they did. In
other cases, manufacturers loaned
network operators money to buy equipment
from them before the operators had
customers to justify the buildout. All
this resulted in profits that were
illusory.
Nowadays, deals are being announced in
which money appears to be roundted
between AI players. People who believe
there's an AI bubble find it easy to
view these transactions with suspicion.
Is the purpose to achieve legitimate
business goals or to exaggerate
progress?
Adding to worries critics say, some of
the deals that Open AI has made with
chip makers, cloud computing companies,
and others are oddly circular. Open AAI
is set to receive billions from tech
companies, but also sends billions back
to the same companies to pay for
computing power and other services.
Nvidia has also made some deals that
have raised questions about whether the
company is paying itself. It announced
that it would invest $100 billion in
OpenAI. The startup receives that money
as it buys or leases Nvidia's chips.
Goldman Sachs has estimated that Nvidia
will make 15% of its sales next year
from what critics also call circular
deals. The New York Times, November
20th. Noteworthy, Open AAI has made
investment commitments to industry
counterparties totaling $1.4 trillion,
even though it has yet to turn a profit.
The company makes clear that the
investments are to be paid out of
revenues received from the same parties
and that it has ways to back out of
these commitments. But all this raises
the question of whether the AI industry
has developed a perpetual motion
machine. On this subject, I've been
enjoying articles questioning the
ability of people to relate to the word
trillion. And I think this idea is
spoton. A million dollars is a dollar a
second for 11.6 days. A billion dollar
is a dollar a second for 31.7
years. We get that. But a trillion
dollar is a dollar a second for 31,700
years. Who can get their head around the
significance of 31,700
years?
What will be the useful life of AI
assets?
We have to wonder whether the topic of
obsolescence is being handled correctly
in AI land. What will be the lifespan of
AI chips? How many years of earnings
growth should be counted on in assigning
PE ratios for AI related stocks? Will
chips and other aspects of AI
infrastructure last long enough to repay
the debt undertaken to buy them? Will
artificial general intelligence, a
machine capable of doing anything the
human brain can do, be achieved? Will
that be the end of progress? Or might
there be further revolutions? And what
firms will win them? Will firms reach a
position where technology is stable and
they can extract economic value from it?
or will new technologies continually
threaten to supplant older ones as the
route to success?
In this connection, a single issue of an
FT newsletter briefly mentioned two
developments that suggest the fluid
nature of the competitive landscape.
A study by the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology and open-source AI startup
Hugging Face found that the total share
of downloads of new Chinese-made open
models rose to 17% in the past year. The
figure surpasses the 15.8% share of
downloads from American developers such
as Google, Meta, and OpenAI, the first
time Chinese groups have beaten their
American counterparts.
Nvidia shares fell sharply yesterday on
fears that Google is gaining ground in
artificial intelligence, erasing $115
billion in market value from the AI
chipmaker. First FT Americas, November
26th.
Dynamic change creates the opportunity
for incredible new technologies, but
that same dynamism can threaten the
leading companies reign. Amid all these
uncertainties, investors must ask
whether the assumption of continued
success incorporated in the prices
they're paying is fully warranted.
Is exuberance leading to speculative
behavior? For an extreme example, I'll
cite the trend toward venture capital
investments in startups via $1 billion
seed rounds. Here's one vignette.
Thinking Machines, an AI startup helmed
by former Open AI executive Mera Morati,
just raised the largest seed round in
history. $2 billion in funding at a $10
billion valuation. The company has not
released a product and has refused to
tell investors what they're even trying
to build. It was the most absurd pitch
meeting. One investor who met with
Morati said, she was like, "So, we're
doing an AI company with the best AI
people, but we can't answer any
questions.
This is how the AI bubble will pop."
Derek Thompson, Substack, October 2nd.
But that's ancient history, already 2
months old. Here's an update.
Thinking Machines Lab, the artificial
intelligence startup founded by former
open AI executive Mera Morati, is in
early talks to raise a new funding round
at a roughly $50 billion valuation.
Bloomberg News reported on Thursday. The
startup was last valued at $12 billion
in July after it raised about $2
billion. Reuters November 13th. And
Thinking Machines Lab isn't alone.
[clears throat] In one of the boldest
bets yet in the AI arms race, Safe Super
Intelligence, SSI, the stealth startup
founded by former OpenAI chief scientist
Ilia Sutsk has raised $2 billion in a
round that values the company at $32
billion despite having no publicly
released product or service.
CEK by Calculist, April 13th.
What's the end state? Part of the issue
with AI includes the unusual nature of
this newest thing. This isn't like a
business that designs and sells a
product, making money if the selling
price exceeds the cost of the inputs.
Rather, it's companies building an
airplane while it's in flight. And once
it's built, they'll know what it can do
and whether anyone will pay for its
services.
Many companies justify their spending
because they're not just building a
product. They're creating something that
will change the world. Artificial
general intelligence or AGI. The rub is
that none of them quite know how to do
it. But Anton Corin, an economist at the
University of Virginia, said the
spending would all be justified if
Silicon Valley reached its goal. He is
optimistic it can be done. It's a bet on
AGI or bust. Dr. Cororin said the New
York Times, November 20th.
The yettobe determined nature of the
industry under construction is best
captured in remarks from Sam Alman, the
CEO of OpenAI that have been paraphrased
as follows.
We'll build this sort of generally
intelligent system and then ask it to
figure out a way to generate an
investment return from it.
This should be a source of pause for
people who here to for fully
comprehended the nature of the business
they invested in. Clearly, the value of
a technology that equals or surpasses
the human brain should be pretty big.
But isn't it well beyond calculation?
A word about the use of debt. [music]
To date, much of the investment in AI
and the supporting infrastructure has
consisted of equity capital derived from
operating cash flow. But now, companies
are committing amounts that require debt
financing. And for some of those
companies, the investments and leverage
have to be described as aggressive. The
AI data center boom was never going to
be financed with cash alone. The project
is too big to be paid for out of pocket.
JP Morgan analysts have done some sums
on the back of a napkin or possibly a
tablecloth and estimated the bill for
the infrastructure buildout would come
to $5 trillion,
not including a tip. Who knows if that's
right, but we have good reason to expect
close to half a trillion in spending
next year. Meanwhile, the biggest
spenders, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon,
Meta, and Oracle had only about $350
billion in the bank collectively as of
the end of the third quarter. Unhedged,
Financial Times, November 13th.
The firms just mentioned derive healthy
cash flows from their very strong nonAI
businesses. But the massive winner take
all arms race in AI is requiring some to
take on debt. In fact, it's reasonable
to think one of the reasons they're
spending vast sums is to make it hard
for lesser firms to keep up. Oracle,
Meta, and Alphabet have issued 30-year
bonds to finance AI investments. In the
case of the latter two, the yields on
the bonds exceed those on treasuries of
like maturity by 100 basis points or
less. Is it prudent to accept 30 years
of technological uncertainty to make a
fixed income investment that yields
little more than riskless debt? And will
the investments funded with debt in
ships and data centers maintain their
level of productivity long enough for
these 30-year obligations to be repaid?
On November 14th, Alex Canvitz's Big
Technology podcast carried a
conversation with Gil Lura, head of
technology research at financial
services firm DAD Davidson, primarily
regarding the use of debt in the AI
sector. Here's some of what Lauria had
to say.
Healthy behavior is being practiced by
reasonable, thoughtful business leaders
like the ones at Microsoft, Amazon, and
Google that are making sound investments
in growing the capacity to deliver AI.
And the reason they can make sound
investments is that they have all the
customers. And so when they make
investments, they're using cash on their
balance sheets. They have tremendous
cash flow to back it up. They understand
that it's a risky investment and they
balance it out.
unhealthy behavior. Here he describes a
startup that is borrowing money to build
data centers for another startup.
They're both losing tremendous amounts
of cash and yet they're somehow being
able to raise this debt capital in order
to fund this build out again without
having the customers or the visibility
into those investments paying off. So
there's a whole range of behaviors
between healthy and unhealthy and we
just need to sort that out so we don't
make the mistakes of the past.
There are certain things we finance
through equity, through ownership and
there are certain things we finance
through debt, through an obligation to
pay down interest over time. And as a
society for the longest time we've had
those two pieces in their right place.
Debt is when I have a predictable cash
flow and/or an asset that can back that
loan and then it makes sense for me to
exchange capital now for future cash
flows to the lender. We use equity for
investing in more speculative things for
when we want to grow and we want to own
that growth, but we're not sure about
what the cash flow is going to be.
That's how a normal economy functions.
When you start confusing the two, you
get yourself in trouble. Among
potentially worrisome factors, Lauria
cites these a speculative asset. We
don't know how much of it we're really
going to need in 2 to 5 years. Lender
personnel with incentives to make loans,
but no exposure to long-term
consequences.
The possibility that the supply of AI
capacity catches up with or surpasses
the demand. the chance that future
generations of AI chips will be more
powerful, obsoleting existing ones or
reducing their value as backing for
debt. Powerful competitors who v for
market share by cutting rental rates and
running losses.
Here are some important paragraphs from
Azim Azar's exponential view of October
18th. When does an AI boom tip into a
bubble? Investor and engineer Paul
Kadrski points to the Minsky moment, the
inflection point when credit expansion
exhausts its good projects and starts
chasing bad ones. Funding marginal deals
with vendor financing and questionable
coverage ratios for AI infrastructure.
That shift may already be underway. The
telltale signs include hyperscalers
capex outpacing revenue momentum and
lenders sweetening terms to keep the
party alive.
Paul makes a compelling case. We've
entered speculative finance territory,
arguably past the tensitive stage and
recent deals will set dangerous
precedents. As Paul warns, this
financing will create templates for
future such transactions, spurring rapid
expansion in junk issuance and SPV
proliferation among hyperscalers chasing
dominance at any cost.
For AI infrastructure, the warning signs
are flashing. Vendor financing
proliferates, coverage ratios thin, and
hyperscalers leverage balance sheets to
maintain capex velocity even as revenue
momentum lags.
We see both sides. Genuine
infrastructure expansion alongside
financing gymnastics that recall the
2000 telecom bust. The boom may yet
prove productive, but only if revenue
catches up before credit tightens.
When does healthy strain become systemic
risk? That's the question we must answer
before the market does.
Azar references the use of off-balance
sheet financing via specialurpose
vehicles or SPVS which were among the
biggest contributors to Enron's
precariousness and eventual collapse. A
company and its partners set up an SPV
for some specific purpose or purposes
and supply the equity capital. The
parent company may have operating
control, but because it doesn't have
majority ownership, it doesn't
consolidate the SPV on its financial
statements. The SPV takes on debt, but
that debt doesn't appear on the parents
books.
The parent may be an investment grade
borrower, but likewise, the debt isn't
an obligation of the parent or
guaranteed by it. Today's debt may be
backed by promised rent from a data
center tenant. sometimes an equity
partner, but the debt isn't a direct
obligation of the equity partner either.
Essentially, an SPV is a way to make it
look like a company isn't doing the
things the SPV is doing and doesn't have
the debt the SPV does. Private equity
funds and private credit funds are
highly likely to be found among the
partners and lenders in these entities.
As I quoted earlier, according to Perez,
who wrote on the heels of the dotcom
bubble, what enabled the deployment
period were the money losing
investments.
Early investment is lost in the Minsky
moment in which unwise commitments made
in an extended upcycle encounters value
destruction in a correction. And there
are three things we know for sure about
the use of debt. It magnifies losses if
there are losses just as it magnifies
the hope for gains if they materialize.
It increases the probability of a
venture failing if it encounters a
difficult moment. And despite the layer
of equity beneath it, it puts lenders
capital at risk if the difficult moment
is bad enough.
One key risk to consider is the
possibility that the boom in data center
construction will result in a glut. Some
data centers may be rendered uneconomic
and some owners may go bankrupt. In that
case, a new generation of owners might
buy up centers at pennies on the dollar
from lenders who foreclosed on them,
reaping profits when the industry
stabilizes.
This is a process through which creative
destruction brings markets into
equilibrium and reduces costs to levels
that make future business profitable.
Debt is neither a good thing nor a bad
thing per se. Likewise, the use of
leverage in the AI industry shouldn't be
applauded or feared. It all comes down
to the proportion of debt in the capital
structure, the quality of the assets or
cash flows you're lending against, the
borrower's alternative sources of
liquidity for repayment, and the
adequacy of the safety margin obtained
by lenders. We'll see which lenders
maintain discipline in today's heady
environment.
It's worth noting in this connection
that Oakree has made a few investments
in data centers and our parent
Brookfield is raising a $10 billion fund
for investment in AI infrastructure.
Brookfield is putting up its own money
and has equity commitments from
sovereign wealth funds and Nvidia to
which it intends to apply prudent debt.
Brookfield's investments seem likely to
go largely into geographies that are
less saturated with data centers and for
infrastructure to supply the vast
amounts of electric power that data
centers will require.
Of course, we are both doing these
things on the basis of what we think are
prudent decisions.
I know I don't know enough to opine on
AI, but I do know something about debt
and it's this. It's okay to supply debt
financing for a venture where the
outcome is uncertain. It's not okay
where the outcome is purely a matter of
conjecture. Those who understand the
difference still have to make the
distinction correctly.
The FT's Unhedged quotes Chong Sin, lead
analyst for CNBS research at JP Morgan
as saying, "In our conversations with
investment grade ABS and CNBS investors,
one often cited concern is whether they
want to take on the residual value risk
of data centers when the bonds mature.
I'm glad potential lenders are asking
the kind of questions they should.
Here's how to think about the
intersection of debt and AI." According
to Bob Olri, Oak Tre's co-CEO and
co-portfolio manager of our
opportunities funds, most technological
advances develop into winner takes all
or winner takes most competitions. The
right way to play this dynamic is
through equity, not debt. Assuming you
can diversify your equity exposures so
as to include the eventual winner, the
massive gain from the winner will more
than compensate for the capital
impairment on the losers. That's the
venture capitalist's timehonored formula
for success. The precise opposite is
true of a diversified pool of debt
exposures. You'll only make your coupon
on the winner, and that will be grossly
insufficient to compensate for the
impairments you'll experience on the
debt of the losers.
Of course, if you can't identify the
pool of companies from which the winner
will emerge, the difference between debt
and equity is irrelevant. You're a zero
either way. I mention this because
that's precisely what happened in search
and social media. Early leaders loss in
search and MySpace in social media lost
out spectacularly to companies that
emerged later. Google in search and
Facebook in social media
trying to get to a conclusion.
There can be no doubt that today's
behavior is speculative, defined as
based on speculation regarding the
future. There's also no doubt that no
one knows what the future holds, but
investors are betting huge sums on that
future. In that connection, I want to
say a little about the unique nature of
AI. The AI revolution is different from
the technological revolutions that
preceded it in ways that are both
wonderful and worrisome. It feels to me
like a genie has been released from a
bottle and it isn't going back in.
AI may not be a tool for mankind, but
rather something of a replacement.
It may be capable of taking over
cognition on which humans have thus far
had a monopoly. Because of this, it's
likely to be different in kind from
prior developments, not just in degree.
More on this in my postcript.
AI technology is progressing at an
incredibly rapid clip, possibly leaving
scant time for mankind to adjust. I'll
provide two examples. Coding, which we
called computer programming 60 years
ago, is the canary in the coal mine in
terms of the impact of AI. In many
advanced software teams, developers no
longer write the code. They type in what
they want and AI systems generate the
code for them. Coding performed by AI is
at a worldclass level. Something that
wasn't so just a year ago.
According to my guide here, there is no
speculation about whether or not human
replacement will take place in that
vertical. In the field of digital
advertising, when users log into an app,
AI engages in ad matching, showing them
ads tailored to the preferences
displayed by their prior surfing. No
humans need apply to do this job.
Perhaps most importantly, the growth of
demand for AI seems totally
unpredictable.
As one of my younger adviserss
explained, the speed and scale of
improvement mean it's incredibly hard to
forecast demand for AI. Adoption today
may have nothing to do with adoption
tomorrow because a year or two from now,
AI may be able to do 10x or 100x what it
can do today. Thus, how can anyone say
how many data centers will be needed?
And how can even successful companies
know how much computing capacity to
contract for?
With differences like these, how can
anyone correctly judge what AI implies
for the future?
One of the things occupying many
observers at this juncture, including
me, is the search for parallels to past
bubbles. Here's some historical
perspective from a recent article in
Wired.
AI's closest historical analog here may
be not electric lighting, but radio.
When RCA started broadcasting in 1919,
it was immediately clear that it had a
powerful information technology on its
hands. But less clear was how that would
translate into business. Would radio be
a lossleading marketing for department
stores, a public service for
broadcasting Sunday sermons, an ad
supported medium for entertainment?
Brent Goldfarb and David A. Kersh of the
University of Maryland, right? All were
possible. All were subjects of
technological narratives. As a result,
radio turned into one of the biggest
bubbles in history, peaking in 1929
before losing 97% of its value in the
crash. This wasn't an incidental sector.
RCA was along with Ford Motor Company
the most highraded stock on the market.
It was, as The New Yorker recently
wrote, the Nvidia of its day.
In 1927, Charles Lindberg flew the first
solo non-stop transatlantic flight from
New York to Paris. It was the biggest
tech demo of the day, and it became an
enormous chat GPT launch level
coordinating event, a signal to
investors to pour money into the
industry. Expert investors appreciated
correctly the importance of airplanes
and air travel. Goldfire Ben Kirish,
right? But the narrative of
inevitability largely drowned out their
caution. Technological uncertainty was
framed as opportunity, not risk. The
market overestimated how quickly the
industry would achieve technological
viability and profitability.
As a result, the bubble burst in 1929.
From its peak in May, aviation stocks
dropped 96% by May 1932.
It's worth reiterating that two of the
closest analoges AI seems to have in
tech bubble history are aviation and
broadcast radio. Both were wrapped in
high degrees of uncertainty, and both
were hyped with incredibly powerful
coordinating narratives. Both were
seized on by pure play companies seeking
to capitalize on the new gamechanging
tech and both were accessible to the
retail investors of the day. Both helped
inflate the bubble so big that when it
burst in 1929, it left us with the Great
Depression.
AI is the bubble to burst them all.
Brian Merchant, Wired, October 27th.
Please note that oppression had many
causes beyond the bursting of the radio
aviation bubble.
Derek Thompson, who supplied the quote
with which I opened this memo, ended his
newsletter with some terrific historical
perspective. The railroads were a bubble
and they transformed America.
Electricity was a bubble and it
transformed America. The broadband
buildout of the late 1990s was a bubble
that transformed America. I am not
rooting for a bubble. And quite the
contrary, I hope that the US economy
doesn't experience another recession for
many years. But given the amount of debt
now flowing into AI data center
construction, I think it's unlikely that
AI will be the first transformative
technology that isn't overbuilt and
doesn't incur a brief painful
correction.
AI could be the railroad of the 21st
century. Brace yourself. November 4th.
The skeptics readily site ways in which
today's events are comparable to the
internet bubble. A change the world
technology, exuberant speculative
behavior, the role of FOMO, suspect
circular deals, the use of SPVS,
1 billion seed rounds. The supporters
have reasons why the comparison isn't
appropriate. An existing product for
which there is strong demand, 1 billion
users already, many times the number of
internet users at the height of the
bubble, wellestablished main players
with revenues, profits, and cash flow.
The absence of an IPO craze with prices
doubling in a day, reasonable PE ratios
for the established participants.
I will elaborate regarding the first of
the proposed non-comparable factors.
Unlike in the internet bubble, AI
products already exist at scale. The
demand for them is exploding and they're
producing revenues in rapidly increasing
amounts. For example, Enthropic, one of
the two leaders in producing models for
AI coding, as previously described, is
said to have 10xed its revenues in each
of the last two years. For those who
didn't study higher math, that's 100x in
two years. Revenues from Clawed Code, a
program for coding that Anthropic
introduced earlier this year, already
are said to be running at an annual rate
of $1 billion.
Revenues for the other leader, Curser,
for $1 million in 2023 and $100 million
in 2024, and they too are expected to
reach $1 billion this year.
As to the final bullet point, I refer to
a table from Goldman Sachs via Derek
Thompson. To view it, please consult the
written version of this memo on the Oak
Tree website.
You'll notice that during the internet
bubble of 1998 to 2000, the PE ratios
were much higher for Microsoft, Cisco,
and Oracle than they are today for the
biggest AI players, Nvidia, Microsoft,
Alphabet, Amazon, and Meta. Open AAI
doesn't have earnings. In fact,
Microsoft's on a half off sale relative
to its PE 26 years ago. In the first
bubble I witnessed surrounding the
Nifty50 of 1969 to72, the PE ratios for
the leading companies were even higher
than those of 1998 to 2000. In
conclusion,
for my final citation, I'll look to Sam
Olman of OpenAI. His comments seemed to
me to capture the essence of what's
going on. When bubbles happen, smart
people get over excited about a kernel
of truth. Mr. Altman told reporters this
year, "Are we in a phase where investors
as a whole are over excited about AI?"
My opinion is yes. Is AI the most
important thing to happen in a very long
time? My opinion is also yes. The New
York Times, November 20th. But do I have
a bottom line? Yes, I do. Alan
Greenspan's phrase mentioned earlier
serves as an excellent way to sum up a
stock market bubble, irrational
exuberance.
There is no doubt that investors are
applying exuberance with regard to AI.
The question is whether it's irrational.
Given the vast potential of AI, but also
the large number of enormous unknowns, I
think virtually no one can say for sure.
We can theorize about whether the
current enthusiasm is excessive, but we
won't know until years from now whether
it was. Bubbles are best identified in
retrospect. While the parallels to past
bubbles are inescapable, believers in
the technology will argue that this time
it's different. Those four words are
heard in virtually every bubble,
explaining why the present situation
isn't a bubble, unlike the analogous
prior ones. On the other hand, Sir John
Templeton, who in 1987 drew my attention
to those four words, was quick to point
out that 20% of the time things really
are different. But on the third hand, it
must be borne in mind that behavior
based on the belief that it's different
is what causes it to not be different.
Today's situation calls to mind a
comment attributed to American economist
Steuart Chase about faith. I believe
it's also applicable to AI as well as to
gold and cryptocurrencies.
For those who believe no proof is
necessary, for those who don't believe
no proof is possible,
here's my actual bottom line. There's a
consistent history of transformational
technologies generating excessive
enthusiasm and investment resulting in
more infrastructure than is needed and
asset prices that prove to have been too
high. The excesses accelerate the
adoption of the technology in a way that
wouldn't occur in their absence. The
common word for these excesses is
bubbles.
AI has the potential to be one of the
greatest transformational technologies
of all time.
As I wrote earlier in this memo, AI is
currently the subject of great
enthusiasm.
If that enthusiasm doesn't produce a
bubble conforming to the historical
pattern, that will be a first.
Bubbles created in this process usually
end in losses for those who fuel them.
The losses stem largely from the fact
that the technologies newness renders
the extent and timing of its impact
unpredictable.
This in turn makes it easy to judge
companies too positively amid all the
enthusiasm and difficult to know which
will emerge as winners when the dust
settles.
There can be no way to participate fully
in the potential benefits from the new
technology without being exposed to the
losses that will arise if the enthusiasm
and thus investors behavior prove to
have been excessive.
The use of debt in this process, which
the high level of uncertainty usually
precluded in past technological
revolutions, has the potential to
magnify all of these points this time.
Since no one can say definitively
whether this is a bubble, I'd advise
that no one should go allin without
acknowledging that they face the risk of
ruin if things go badly. But by the same
token, no one should stay all out and
risk missing out on one of the great
technological steps forward. A moderate
position applied with selectivity and
prudence seems like the best approach.
Finally, it's essential to bear in mind
that there are no magic words in
investing. These days, people promoting
real estate funds say office buildings
are so yesterday, but we're investing in
the future through data centers,
whereupon everyone nods in agreement.
But data centers can be in shortage or
in over supply, and rental rates can
surprise to the upside or the downside.
As a result, they can be profitable or
not.
Intelligent investment in data centers
and thus in AI, like everything else,
requires sober, insightful judgment and
skillful implementation. [music]
December 9th, 2025.
[music]
PS. The following has nothing to do with
the financial markets or the question of
whether AI is the subject of a bubble.
My topic is the impact of AI on society
through joblessness and purposelessness.
You needn't listen to it. That's why
it's a postcript, but it's important to
me and I've been looking for a place to
say a few words about it. On November
18th, a research note from Barclays
described Fed Governor Christopher
Waller as having highlighted how recent
stock market enthusiasm around AI has
not yet translated into job creation.
This strikes me as paradoxical given my
sense that one of AI's main impacts will
be to increase productivity and thus
eliminate jobs. That is the source of my
concern.
I view AI primarily as an incredible
labor saving device. Joe Davis, global
chief economist and global head of the
investment strategy group at Vanguard,
says for most jobs, likely four out of
five, AI's impact will result in a
mixture of innovation and automation and
could save about 43% of the time people
currently spend on their work tasks.
Exponential view, September 3rd.
I find the resulting outlook for
employment terrifying. I am enormously
concerned about what will happen to the
people whose jobs AI renders unnecessary
or who can't find jobs because of it.
The optimists argue that new jobs have
always materialized after past
technological advances. I hope that'll
hold true in the case of AI, but hope
isn't much to hang one's hat on. And I
have trouble figuring out where those
jobs will come from. Of course, I'm not
much of a futurist or a financial
optimist, and that's why it's a good
thing I shifted from equities to bonds
in 1978.
The other thing the optimists say is
that the beneficial impact of AI on
productivity will cause a huge
acceleration in GDP growth. Here I have
specific quibbles.
The change in GDP can be thought of as
the change in hours worked times the
change in output per hour aka
productivity. The role of AI in
increasing productivity means it will
take fewer hours worked meaning fewer
workers to produce the goods we need. Or
viewed from the other direction maybe
the boom in productivity will mean a lot
more goods can be produced with the same
amount of labor. But if a lot of jobs
are lost to AI, how will people be able
to afford the additional goods AI
enables to be produced?
I find it hard to imagine a world in
which AI works shoulderto-shoulder with
all the people who are employed today.
How can employment not decline? AI is
likely to replace large numbers of
entry-level workers. people who process
paper without applying judgment, and
junior lawyers who scour the law books
for precedents, maybe even junior
investment analysts who create
spreadsheets and compile presentation
materials.
It's said that AI can read an MRI better
than the average doctor. Driving is one
of the most populous professions in
America, and driverless vehicles are
already arriving. Where will all the
people who currently drive taxis, limos,
buses, and trucks find jobs?
I imagine government's response will be
something called universal basic income.
The government will simply mail checks
to the millions for whom there are no
jobs. But the worrier in me finds
problems in this, too.
Where will the money come from for those
checks? The job losses I foresee imply
reduced income tax receipts and
increased spending on entitlements. This
puts a further burden on the declining
segment of the population that is
working and implies even greater
deficits ahead in this new world. Will
governments be able to fund
everinccreasing deficits?
And more importantly, people get a lot
more from jobs than just a paycheck. A
job gives them a reason to get up in the
morning, imparts structure to their day,
gives them a productive role in society
and self-respect and presents them with
challenges, the overcoming of which
provides satisfaction.
How will these things be replaced? I
worry about large numbers of people
receiving subsistance checks and sitting
around idle all day. I worry about the
correlation between the loss of jobs in
mining and manufacturing in recent
decades and the incidence of opioid
addiction and shortening of lifespans.
And by the way, if we eliminate large
numbers of junior lawyers, analysts, and
doctors, where will we get the
experienced veterans capable of solving
serious problems requiring judgment and
pattern recognition honed over decades?
What jobs won't be eliminated? What
careers should our children and
grandchildren prepare for? Think about
the jobs that machines can't perform. My
list starts with plumbers, electricians,
and massurs. Physical tasks. Maybe
nurses will earn more than doctors
because they deliver hands-on care. And
what distinguishes the best artists,
athletes, doctors, lawyers, and
hopefully investors?
I think it's something called talent or
insight which AI might or might not be
able to replicate. But how many people
at the top of those professions are
needed? A past presidential candidate
said he would give laptops to everyone
who lost their job to offshoring. How
many laptop operators do we need?
Finally, I'm concerned that a small
number of highly educated
multi-billionaires living on the coasts
will be viewed as having created
technology that puts millions out of
work. This promises even more social and
political division than we have now,
making the world ripe for populist
demagoguery.
I've seen incredible progress over the
course of my lifetime, but in many ways,
I miss the simpler world I grew up in. I
worry that this will be another big one.
I get no pleasure from this recitation.
Will the optimist please explain why I'm
wrong?
Interestingly, in this connection,
Vanguard's Joe Davis points out that
more Americans are turning 65 in 2025
than in any preceding year, and that
approximately 16 million baby boomers
will retire between now and 2035.
Could AI merely make up for that?
There's an optimistic take for you.
Howard Marx.
Thank you for listening to the memo by
Howard Marx. To hear more episodes, be
sure to subscribe wherever you listen to
podcasts.
This podcast expresses the views of the
author as of the date indicated, and
such views are subject to change without
notice. Oak tree has no duty or
obligation to update the information
contained herein. Further, oak tree
makes no representation and it should
not be assumed that past investment
performance is an indication of future
results. Moreover, wherever there is a
potential for profit, there is also the
possibility of loss. This podcast is
being made available for educational
purposes only and should not be used for
any other purpose. The information
contained herein does not constitute and
should not be construed as an offering
of advisory services or an offer to sell
or solicitation to buy any securities or
related financial instruments in any
jurisdiction. Certain information
contained herein concerning economic
trends and performances based on or
derived from information provided by
independent third-party sources. Oakree
Capital Management LP Oaktree believes
that the sources from which such
information has been obtained are
reliable. However, it cannot guarantee
the accuracy of such information and has
not independently verified the accuracy
or completeness of such information or
the assumptions on which such
information is based. This podcast,
including the information contained
herein, may not be copied, reproduced,
republished, or posted in whole or in
part in any form without the prior
written consent of Oakree.
>> Audiation
