Why do all the rich people buy this
suitcase? Lewis Hamilton, the
Kardashian family, Kylian Mbappé or even
Rihanna? Suitcases costing over €2000.
Only one brand, founded in 1898, has
managed to transform a
travel suitcase into a marker of wealth. A
single brand that now belongs to the
LVMH group and is
expanding its empire. Make yourself
comfortable and welcome.
Today, we discover together
the incredible story of Rimova, the
only suitcase that all the rich want to
buy.
Before becoming the preferred travel suitcase
of wealthy people and long
before being bought by LVMH, Rimova
was first and foremost the story of a
German entrepreneur who never imagined he would
create such an empire. Like BMW,
which wants to build the strongest car
possible. Rimova wants to build
luggage that can withstand all types of
travel. It all starts in Cologne. In
1898, Paul Morssec opened his first
workshop and at that time, there was no
intention whatsoever of creating an
international luxury brand.
Custom-made trunks and luggage are manufactured for professionals who
often travel with the
logical materials of the time,
plywood, cardboard, sometimes
covered with leather. And these are
well-designed and sturdy handcrafted items, but
designed for simple journeys.
In the 1920s, something
changed, not just in the brand,
but in the way the world traveled.
Aviation is developing very rapidly
and we quickly feel that it is a
new mode of transport that is being offered to the
world. Legend has it that a fire
will ravage the Rimova factory. Only one
material is fire-resistant: aluminum.
It's not well documented enough to be
100% verifiable, but I like
the story. Rimovai, here's an
opportunity. Aluminium is not
chosen for its beauty; it is chosen
for its lightness because it is
more resistant to weathering and the hazards of
transport compared to wood and leather.
Another quality of this metal is that it does not
rust even when
left in the open air and in
rather humid weather like today. Well,
no problem, it remains smooth and
shiny.
The choice has been made. It was the son of
Rimova's founder, Richard Morsec, who
gradually took over the management of
the company and insisted on
developing the first
aluminium luggage. Primova would then build
what would become its trademark.
Luggage designed as
avant-garde objects optimized to withstand
all travelers. Before being called
Rimova, the malt house was called Gz and
Morsec, not a particularly sexy name. And it was
in 1931 that they officially took the
name Rimova, an acronym formed
from Richard Morsec Varion
meaning registered trademark in German.
In 1950, after releasing several
luggage ranges, Rimova finally added
a differentiating element that would
truly build the
brand image and go far beyond the use
of aluminum: the rinds. It is an
element that will remain, extend to
all ranges and above all traverse
the decades without going out of style because it
is linked to a very
precise reference, the golden age of the first
metal airplanes. Rimova therefore associates this
range of suitcases and its communication with
an aircraft, the Junkers F13, to draw a
parallel between an aircraft that has
conquered the sky and their suitcase that will
withstand it.
Entwicklung derfahen
la marque ne reste pas fixe dans ce
seul symbole. Rimova continues to
position itself on concrete uses. In
1978, they developed their first waterproof
case for
digital devices. Designed to protect
filming and photography equipment.
We are far from the idea of ​​luxury for
luxury's sake. Everything is justified, based on its
experience and quite logically, Rimova
will very quickly become international and they
will target and start with a market
where every detail counts. Japan.
Rimova will also forge its reputation
thanks to its ability to innovate. This will be
the very first brand to
massively introduce polycarbonate travel suitcases
. Polycarbonate allows
for weight reduction while maintaining
high strength. It's a material
that is virtually unbreakable and it will
very quickly become a standard that will
influence the rest of the industry. Even
though, in the eyes of the general public, the
chosen materials reveal a
new design never before seen on
suitcases, Rimova is
not thinking about it at all. The brand focuses on
selling quality products made
in Germany. And Rimova is anything but a Bling
Bling brand. It's a brand that was
built on an obsession:
sustainability. We understand the object better,
but that doesn't explain the phenomenon.
Why has this suitcase become a
global symbol? Why are people
today willing to pay so much
to be seen with a Rimova suitcase?
Behind the brand's genius, you
will see how Rimova has managed to
transform a technical and
industrial feat into an object desired
worldwide.
Companies like, for example, take a very long time to
think about
how to sell a suitcase for over
€2000, even with the best story in the
world. How do you transform a
utilitarian object into a social marker?
Rimova doesn't just sell a suitcase.
As is often the case in the luxury industry,
Rimova sells a story and a
promise. The promise that your death will
come before your suitcase. Well,
they don't exactly say it like that. I'm
not going into marketing. If there's one
thing I know how to do well, it's
reminding you to subscribe to my
YouTube channel if you like discovering
the behind-the-scenes of the brands
around us. You can find our best
videos in the description to see
more, and everything is available as an
audio podcast on Spotify and Apple
Podcasts. We're everywhere, so remember to
follow us.
Rimova's specifications seem endless. They must
guarantee that all parts can
withstand as much impact as possible and
that if, unfortunately, one breaks, everything must
be repairable. from the wheels to the mechanisms
and even the handles.
Rimova suitcases must be immortal. Buying
a Rimova suitcase means you can be
sure that no matter where you go
in the world, you will have the possibility,
provided you can find a store of
the brand, to have your suitcase repaired and
if Rimova cannot do it, it will be
replaced. It's a huge
risk because it forces them to take responsibility for
and guarantee a product over time.
Pre-sale service is what can
sink a brand. We saw it in
our latest video about the GoPro brand
and its Karma drone. which
unfortunately lived up to its name. By 2025,
all suitcases purchased new from
Rimova will have a lifetime guarantee. It's a
detail that changes everything in the
psychology of buying. If there is one thing
all
wealthy people on this planet have in common, it is that they delegate what
costs them time. Rimova, by
promising a lifetime guarantee on all
their products, promises
wealthy buyers that after their purchase they will never have to
think about it again. You're not buying a
suitcase anymore, you're buying a promise. Rimova
has grasped a constraint that is an
integral part of the journey: wear and tear. And we
made it a central element of its story.
A new suitcase may be pretty, but
a battered suitcase that
still rolls. This is the best way
to spread the word about your promise. By promising
to repair its suitcases for life, Rimova
is investing in mass communication
that no one notices. Rimova states it clearly
on its website.
Your travel companion evolves with
every wear and tear, every snag and every
sticker leaving a mark of
each of your journeys. These are not just
symbols of resilient design,
but real memories. Rimova
sells a promise. OK, but that doesn't
explain why all the rich people
still buy their suitcases. A
wealthy person doesn't care at all about
buying a new suitcase every year if
necessary. Perhaps these suitcases should
ultimately be intended for
modest families, promising to buy only one in
their entire lifetime. If Rimova
has entered the most
chic hotels on the planet, in the hands of
influencers like the Kardashians or
in the private jets of billionaires,
it is thanks to one group, one single group that has taken
the brand into another
dimension, a group that is written in
four letters LVMH.
The best way to afford a
Rimova suitcase is to be able to
buy it with the dividends you will have
received for years by
holding shares in the LVMH group.
To manage a strategy like
this, clarity is essential. So,
rather than having assets
scattered across one app for the
stock market, another for crypto, and a
third-party account for your precious metals,
Bitpanda, which sponsors this video,
allows you to bring everything together in one place.
It's the perfect ecosystem to stop spreading out
. Bit Panda has over
10,000 assets in a single
application. Cryptocurrencies, stocks,
ETFs, precious metals, all with a
solid European regulatory framework.
Instant deposits are free, you
have access to automated savings plans
and you can even make your
cryptos work for you with Bitpanda earn and
rewards of up to 14%.
Until April 30th, Bitpanda is offering you
€15 in cash if you trade at least
€50 worth of metal. To open your account
and purchase your Remova suitcase in a few years
, you can scan the QR
code on the screen or click
directly on the link in the description.
For example, you know, when I
started running Remoa, it was a kind of
coincidence to be fair. I founded
the company. I started to lead the
acquisition process and I wasn't at
all going to work there and the
former owner and CEO said you know I'll
only sell the company if you become co
next to me then you know I was
24 years old.
To understand why the rich
buy Rimova suitcases, we have to
go back to October 4, 2016, the LVMH group
founded by Bernard Arnaud announced it was
investing in and buying 80% of the
Rimova brand for 640 million euros.
Compared to another big acquisition
in the sector, that of TMI which had
pushed Samsonit to write a check for
almost 2 billion dollars. This
acquisition of Rimova by the LVMH group
is not unrelated. This is especially true
when you know LVMH's strategy,
which after each investment
really invests itself to take the
brand to another galaxy. Rimova in
2016 and just before the
acquisition by LVMH was still a
German family business with a
boss Dieter Morssec, the grandson of the
founder; the deal stipulated that he would retain
20% of the capital and remain in
charge for a time. LVMH does
not want to sweep everything away in its path. They
are well aware that the brand's history and
expertise play a role,
and they know very well that by
injecting the essence of the
Rimova luxury group, it will change dimensions without
losing its sense of purpose. LVMH eventually became
involved quickly and Alexandre
Arnaud, one of Bernard Arnaud's four sons
, would finally take the helm of
Rimova. At 24, he will get involved in
the transformation of the brand alongside
the family. For Alexandre Arnaud,
Rimova is not simply a
high-end luggage brand. Alexandre sees
it as a future luxury
lifestyle home, an object that one wants to
show off.
I would store pop over
in Tokyo.
How does an indestructible suitcase
become an irresistible suitcase thanks to
marketing? How can I make
the world know at a glance, with just one suitcase in hand, that I am rich? This is where
LVMH unfolds a strategy
they know by heart. First, you
control the image, then you control
the distribution, and finally you create
moments of scarcity to make people
crazy about your products. Luxury is not
just the quality of a product, it is
also the image associated with it. And
LVMH does it better than anyone else.
Alexandre Arnaud arrives with a
simple idea. Rimova needs to stop being perceived
as a very serious manufacturer
known only to insiders and become
an immediately identifiable brand.
is desirable even among a
population that never even considers
buying a suitcase. Rimova
begins by overhauling its
visual identity and making strategic choices about
how the brand presents itself to the
world. Alexandre Arnaud explains that he
abandoned traditional advertising displays
to invest massively
on the internet and convince his new,
much younger and more connected target audience.
It may seem like a somewhat insignificant
decision, but it's the first
brand in the LVMH group to make this
switch. LVMH wants Rimova to become
a visual obvious choice, an object you
recognize in a second and which, without
needing a giant logo, makes you understand
that it is the suitcase. The next
important step in starting the
brand overhaul is to rethink its distribution. We
Muggles completely underestimate
this strategy, but in the luxury sector,
distribution is part of the product.
opening those standalone retail stores
when you look at the highest the most
expensive avenues in the world yeah was
necessarily a good idea. But you know
little by little we did it we kind of
started getting away from the
nonqualitative wholesale that we had a
lot of in the US kind of m and pop shops
around the street corners to open our
own stores have own relationship with
the place of purchase must be sacred. Who is supporting you
in your decision? How
are the products presented to you? Who
reassures you? Don't underestimate the
teams that welcome you in each
luxury home. Everything is meticulously planned, from the initial
greeting to the final exit
with the product. Alexandre Arnaud accepts
and adopts the LVMH strategy. Reduce the number of
distributors you don't control
who have the right to sell your products
to regain control over your
points of sale, your teams, and
build a real customer experience
when buying. Two effects are
immediate. You have absolute control over the entire
presentation and the narrative surrounding
the product. It's easier when you
want to tell a story to sell
an overpriced suitcase. Then you
control access to the products.
Rimova's strategy is not about
products you discover by chance while
leaving Carrefour and thinking, "Hey
, I need a suitcase." No,
Rimova wants you to come for the
right reasons already discovered through
their online communication strategy
. Even before entering the
store and seeing the product, you already
want to buy it. The brand's history
is complete. The
product technology, OK. Communication strategy,
we're good. The distribution was perfect.
One element is missing, the key piece
that luxury calls desirability. If
your brand is desirable, even with a
suitcase that comes with a lifetime guarantee, buyers
will want to buy more. And
for that, there is a
foolproof strategy. A strategy that can be summed up in
one word: collaboration.
Artistic collaborations allow
brands to offer
limited edition products. Collaborations will
become Rimova's key element
in bringing customers back to the
store. While they had bought
an immortal suitcase in 2018 supreme,
the Hype brand par excellence with
ultra limited drops and resale prices
that explode everything. Even
today, on the resale market, the
Rimova Supreme suitcase costs around €3000.
A few months later, it was
Off White's turn with a concept that was more
artistic than practical. The suitcase is
completely transparent with the large
Virgilo brand logo. This is driving
collectors crazy again and is once again generating buzz around
Rimova. As with
sneakers, Rimova has managed to transpose
this trend onto an
everyday object. Once the first
collaborations were released, it was time to bring
together the brands of the same
group to make it even stronger
and, in the process, to anchor Rimova in luxury
forever. The House of Dior will collaborate
with Rimova in 2019, a Rimova suitcase
associated with a haute couture house for
a timeless story. This is the
Secret Source of the LVMH group. You prove yourself
, then you are given the opportunity to play in the
big leagues so that you can in
turn support the image of the
historic house with a new
generation. Now that we
better understand the history of this
historic brand that has become a luxury brand, does that
justify the price of these
products? You must be wondering,
I know I've been trying to convince you to
buy one. Rimova
makes very good products and beyond the
marketing, quality and durability
remain at the heart of their promises. In an
era where brands want to
sell us new products every
year, this is becoming increasingly rare.
But as with many expensive
and luxurious items, you can hear all sorts of
conflicting opinions. Fans will tell you that
Rimova is the best suitcase in the world.
The haters will tell you it's a
scam. The reality, as is often the case,
is much more nuanced. Yes, aluminum
is robust. Yes, it holds up better
than textiles or plastic, but it is
also heavier and more rigid.
If you're travelling light, the weight of an
empty bag is a hindrance. If you're even
slightly careful, you'll go crazy at
the thought of seeing scratches appear
on your €1500 suitcase.
Regarding pre-sales and guarantees,
there will undoubtedly often be a
gap between the promise you are sold and
the reality. With the popularity of
suitcases increasing year
after year, it will require more and
more effort from the Rimova brand to
maintain the same guarantees.
Rimova suitcases remain a luxury item
that responds to the trend that
emerged in the early 2020s:
quiet luxury.
Rimova is
participating in this new segment, just like the Oropiana loafers at €960. No
large logo, a brand identity that is both
strong and discreet. Rimova makes good
products, but the real genius is having been able to
transform a suitcase into a
social proof expensive enough to be a
symbol, useful enough to be
impossible to criticize. Rimova did not
win by becoming the strongest suitcase
. Rimova won by becoming the
most visible suitcase.
