[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam D Sanctus. Welcome to MBA
Ask the Expert, a series where we
discuss a timely and important issue
with a mortgage industry leader. Today
I'm here with President and COO Muhammad
Allea of Proctor Loan Protector for part
two of our ongoing series. Today we're
continuing our timely discussion on
insurance issues and specifically on the
hot topic of AI and automation.
Muhammad, thank you for joining us
today.
>> Thank you for having me, Adam. Thank
you.
>> So let's get started. From your
perspective, how is automation today
specifically reshaping borrower
communication and insurance tracking?
Well, Adam, borrower satisfaction is our
top priority. With the volume of
insurance notices, phone calls, and
claims we process in a daily basis,
maintaining a high service standards is
really challenging. That's why I believe
it is truly important for us to leverage
AI, machine learning, automation.
These technologies help us streamline
our process workflows, reduce error and
respond a little faster, all while
allowing our team to focus on more
complex issues. Uh personal interaction
with our borrowers. That's why I really
truly believe technology is almost
essential in our business at this point.
>> It certainly does appear that way and AI
technology is being developed and used
at a rapid pace. So, how are you
activating AI in your call center to
assist with proactive communication and
to minimize the need for call inquiries?
>> Adam, we are leveraging AI in our call
center across nearly every area of
operation. That includes intelligent
pull routing, real time sentiment
analysis, but I want to focus on four
areas specifically in the call center
which AI is doing uh a great job for us.
One is borrower verification. Second is
virtual agent. Virtual agent is like an
agent that that handles routine calls,
routine inquiry, lowering call volume
and freeing up human agents for more
complex issue. Second, third is agent
assistance. Agent assistants provide our
life agent uh real-time insights like
next best action or compliance alert
helping agents respond faster and more
effectively. Last but certainly not
least is system notation. AI
automatically document calls ensuring
accuracy accuracy without adding agent
workload.
>> Those are great examples of usage there.
And as you know, given the increase in
natural disasters that we're seeing
throughout the country, how is AI and
automation impacting the loss draft
process, especially with the expediting
insurance funds to repair homes more
quickly? Really, regardless of the
nature of the cause of the loss, our
goal is always to get funds into the
hands of the power as quickly as
possible so they can begin repairing
their homes. We are achieving this by
accelerating every step of the process
from claim verification to fund dis uh
dispersement. For example, one of the
things that we're going to be deploying
by the end of the year is remote
deposit. Remote deposit will allow our
borrowers to deposit their claim checks
in just minutes. Innovation like this
are helping us deliver faster, more
seamless support when borrower needed
needed most.
>> Speed is key there. That's a good
example. Uh so what other tools are
available for borrowers to manage their
claims without involving an agent? We
have a portal online that can be uh used
to practically do everything that you
need uh on anal side. That includes
starting a claim, upload documents,
train track claim status in real time,
receive notification, request
inspection, all without needing to speak
to uh an an agent. Of course, life
support is always available, but the
goal here is to give borrowers the
confidence and the tools to manage their
claims independently and efficiently.
>> Agree there, Muhammad. I've really
enjoyed talking to you today. Uh, do you
have any final thoughts?
>> I do. And uh you know I am very excited
about the approach that we're taking
which is a very proactive approach
because in in in my opinion the best way
to solve a problem or prevent an
escalation is to stop it from happening
in the first place. That's why we are
using AI to study patterns in our data
and predict the potential issues before
they arise. Our goal is to proactively
identify risks and resolve them early.
uh whether it is a delaying claim
processing a miscommunication or service
breakdown. This is the proactive
approach we are taking with AI not just
reacting to problem but anticipating and
preventing them to enhance power
experience.
>> That's great to see and I've really
enjoyed this conversation and you've
provided a lot of useful information for
our viewers. Thanks again Muhammad.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me.
[Music]
Wow.
[Applause]
[Music]
