[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to NBA Asks
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Meridian Link's Chris Dumas,
director of data product management for
part two of our ongoing series with
Meridian Link. Part one of our series
titled AI and how automation tools are
speeding up the mortgage origination
process. Today we're talking about more
ways to accelerate underwriting. Chris,
thank you for joining us today.
>> Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the invite and
the opportunity to share some of the
exciting things we're doing over here at
Meridian Link.
Chris, I'm really looking forward to
talking to you again. So, let's jump
right in. What are some of the larger
pain points in today's mortgage process
and how can insight for mortgage
contribute to solving them?
>> Yeah, that's I think it's a great
question a lot of our our industry
leaders deal with. Um, I think some of
the main pain points as the market
fluctuates and volumes fluctuates are
really understanding how do I get the
most out of the opportunity that's
presented to me? How do I create a more
frictionless process for the consumer
and on the wholesale market? How do I
alleviate fatigue uh in existing
origination systems? Um, and how do I
capitalize on missed opportunities? And
I think what it comes down to is being
able to transform data into information.
Um, because we're going to leverage that
information to make decisions, to
accelerate processes, and to really
create a better process. and then
understanding where things are in
process so we don't miss those
opportunities once they're presented um
to our business but we're able to
capitalize on them and ensure that we're
not losing out because of process um
process friction or anything that we can
do to make a more streamlined process
that's going to help us grow our
business and ultimately uh better
service our consumers
>> I think you laid that out nicely so what
are the immediate solutions that insight
for mortgage can provide Murdian link
mortgage customers
Yeah, great question. Um, and so really
taking that information and turning it
into action. So being able to set
benchmarks across some tactical metrics
that you actually have within your
control rather than looking backwards at
some of the incumbent financial metrics
that we see and then going from
leveraging that benchmarking to identify
opportunity to actually creating
actionable information-based measurement
and then enabling enabling our teams to
execute against those measurements and
really drive that impact back to our
consumer or to our wholesale engine. Um,
and and that includes understanding our
borrowers and our buyers. Um, so knowing
where we're successful and where there's
opportunity to be more successful and
really taking a a holistic and efficient
view of our origination pipeline. So we
know where things are getting stuck. We
know where we have opportunities to
alleviate f friction. And we're not just
looking at redundant metrics or
backward-looking reports, but we're
actually leveraging insights to drive
actions and change our strategies and
behavior.
>> Yeah. The market's always changing, of
course, and lenders come in all sizes
and business models. So, how will
Insight for Mortgage empower smaller
businesses to compete with those larger
institutions that are able to invest
more in their data teams?
>> Yeah, great question, Adam. And I think
for a lot of these these smaller
businesses or FIS, um, they can get
stuck in in the data aspect of things.
And so uh we know that through the
application origination and even on the
wholesale side there there's tens of
thousands of data points that we can
turn to to try to glean information and
insights from to better our consumer
experience and better our business. I
think that's one of the things that
insight does immediately. Um and so we
remove the the tenacity that's needed to
transform data into information and we
present information to business users.
And so when I think about those smaller
uh institutions that are trying to
compete uh in a in a broader
marketplace, it's really alleviating the
pressure, the skill set needed, the
investment needed to get to the
information that that that we all need
to grow and enhance our business. And so
that's something that insight does uh
effectively on day one.
>> Day one and real time is important
there. And so in what way will real-time
industry benchmarks help financial
institutions create those unique
solutions to their institutions
problems? Having as much data as
possible is nice, but having the right
data is what helps lenders stand out.
>> Absolutely. And I think that uh when we
talk about benchmarking, it's it's
really important to know what it what it
can do and what it can't do. And so
benchmarking um can really help us focus
our strategy and look at things we're
doing really well, better than our peer
group. um or looking at opportunities to
improve our our business uh and how we
deliver value to the consumer. And so,
for example, I may look at uh
benchmarking over last week in terms of
processing times, right? And and say,
okay, I'm less than my peer group and
start digging into why that's happening
and really understanding the why. And so
benchmarking helps us focus on those
opportunities by leveraging the vast
amount of data that we have available to
really focus our efforts and to drive uh
better strategies, better execution, and
really enable our teams and our
operations and our processes to deliver
the most value to the consumer. And
whether that be through processing
times, whether it be through growth
rates, whether it be through pricing
models, these are all benchmarks that
are delivered in insight channel source.
They're a lot more actionable than what
we typically think about in terms of
benchmarking, which are kind of those
financial performance metrics that we
see in industry reporting. And so being
able to understand how my levers are
actually having an impact on my business
relative to my peer group gives me the
opportunity to adjust in a much more
profound and actionable way. And with
Insight, we take those benchmarks and
those opportunities and then we create
that real time action where we look at
things in stages or things in cues and
really start to open up that origination
pipeline so we're not missing those
opportunities. We are going faster. We
can adjust our risk models. We can reach
new consumer bases um and and really
drive growth across the entire business.
And so I think benchmarking is kind of
the foundation of that to really help us
focus those strategies and then insight
will enable the execution against those
strategies.
>> Chris, this has all been very insightful
and I think our viewers have learned a
lot. Thank you for joining us today and
let's do it again soon.
>> Adam, I look forward to it. I I really
do and thank you for having me here
today. I appreciate it.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
