[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to MBA Asks
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Lender Price Chief Strategy Officer
Paul Orlando for part three of our
ongoing series with Lender Price. In
parts one and two, we discussed margin
pricing engines in artificial
intelligence. Today it's mortgage
technologies impact on cost reduction
and ROI.
Paul, thank you for joining us today.
>> Glad to be here and uh looking forward
to our discussion today, Adam.
>> Likewise. So, let's jump in. Market
conditions are still tough out there,
which means efficiency has become more
critical than ever for mortgage lenders.
In your view, what are the most
significant cost and efficiency
challenges lenders are facing today? And
how can modern technology like lender
price help address these issues?
I definitely agree that costs have been
increasing and there was a recent uh
Freddy Mack study that said over the
last 3 years costs have increased
approximately 35%.
The interesting thing is if you dive
deeper into that study there was a
significant difference between the top
performers and the bottom performers.
The study showed that the top performers
were originating at a cost of about
$6,900.
The middle performers at $,100 or
$11,600
and the bottom performers were at
$16,500.
So, as you said, costs are increasing,
but there is a difference in how people
do things. So, what is it that the top
performers are doing that the bottom
performers are not? And I I think
they're focusing a lot on outdated
processes and outdated technology in
order to look for ways to drive their
costs down.
People companies need to review their
processes from end to end and look for
for duplicate processes within the
systems and look to eliminate them as
much as possible.
uh lender price as a modern pricing
engine is helping to do that by coming
in at a lower price point than some of
the older systems that are out there.
Our systems are able to quickly adapt to
the changing market and we're able to
put out new features and functionalities
uh within a very short time and in some
cases we can even deploy them within the
same day. Our microservices design helps
us in order to be able to create new
features and functionality and then be
able to deploy the those features
with without impacting anything else in
the system. Another good example is is
new fields can be added within the same
day and rules can be written against
those so that people can quickly adapt
to new products that they want to offer.
>> That was a great way of breaking it down
for us, Paul. I I like that. So, when
evaluating the ROI of a tech investment,
what key metrics or outcomes should
leadership teams focus on, you know,
beyond just that bottom line savings?
>> Yeah, when you're looking at ROI on a
potential product, I think you need to
look at both the hard cost and the
intangible savings that you're going to
get. The hard dollar costs are easy. How
much does the new software cost versus
the old one? Am I going to be able to
sunset the old one quickly? What are my
implementation costs? And on the savings
sides, what process improvements am I
going to be uh benefiting from? And how
quickly can I do that? As you continue
to look at the uh intangible items,
you can look at different things like
does my pricing engine allow me to
deploy new rate changes quickly
in a rising rate environment. You want
to be able to make sure that if the
market is changing and moving up that
you you can deploy new pricing
instantaneously.
So that way you're not going to be
affected by people locking loans with
you at those lower prices.
Conversely, if rates are dropping, you
want to be able to get your prices out
there as quick as possible so that you
can pull in as much of that new business
as possible.
One of our applications, our base price
solution, allows you to pull in brand
new uh pricing and download it into the
system in under five minutes. In some
cases, other systems are requiring as
much as 30 to 60 minutes to be able to
do that same thing. Another example
would be a point of sale solution.
If you're looking at your point of sales
solutions, you want to make sure that
they're easy to use and they're keeping
the client updated as to what's going
on. The better experience that client
has, the more likely that they're going
to refer people to you and thus you'll
be able to increase your overall volume
while also doing it at a lower price.
Yeah, I agree with you that it's more
than just the bottom line savings and
especially given the volatility in
mortgage rates right now and the fact
that they're still elevated but you know
they will come down at some point um
hopefully. So adopting new technology is
one thing but realizing its full value
is another. How have modern pricing
engines such as lender price helped
reduce manual errors and improve
turnaround times for lenders and loan
originators?
So, one of the things that companies
often do is is they buy this new
software and it has all sorts of things
that it can do for them, but they focus
only on one small piece of it and that's
what they deploy. And that's where
they're losing out because there's a lot
of other benefits that can be taken
advantage of. And those benefits, you're
already paying for them. So why not take
advantage and reduce your total cost of
ownership as you're looking at it? And
it also will provide a better experience
for your clients as you look at using
all those new things. Uh lender price
while being a modern product and pricing
engine, we have so many more things to
offer with inside the system. A perfect
example of that is pipeline monitoring.
One of the areas where people lose money
is is that loans change throughout the
origination process. If their product
and pricing engine is not keeping track
of those changes, then there's a chance
that they're either going to be closing
on an ineligible product or that the
LLPAS could have changed on that product
and they didn't realize it. Our pipeline
monitoring constantly looks at the the
application, what's going on, and it'll
alert you to the fact that a change has
taken place that's going to impact the
pricing on the loan.
Another tool that we have is something
called AYA. AI is one of the hottest
topics out there in the marketplace
today. And our AY product which is
artificial intelligent
loan assistant
uh is something that
our originators can use in order to help
them figure out what is the best
solution for their individual clients.
We have different things like near miss
evaluations as well as ineligible
product evaluation.
With that the loan officer can say I
want this ineligible product. what do I
have to do in order to make it uh a
valid product? Our system goes out,
looks at their specific guidelines and
comes back and says, "These are the
changes that you would have to make in
order to achieve that. Would you like us
to update the search criteria
accordingly?" we can make those changes,
push that data back into their loan
origination system, and they're able to
get that product that was previously
listed as ineligible.
>> That's very interesting, Paul, and seems
like there's some very useful tools
Glender Price has in its toolkit. No pun
intended there. So, finally, last
question. You know, I've really enjoyed
this conversation. Looking ahead, what
emerging technologies or capabilities do
you believe will be most critical to
achieving sustainable growth and that
long-term cost efficiency for the
mortgage industry?
>> I think two areas that people are
focusing on right now. One is artificial
intelligence. What can you do with that?
Where can you insert it into your
systems? And where can you do that uh
without creating additional risk for the
loan origination process? The other is
workflow automation. And when you're
looking at workflow automation and AI,
there's a potential that you could
reduce your current manual processes by
80 to 90%. There's several companies out
there today that are offering tools that
automate this part of the workflow
process where people can utilize data
and documents, have the information
evaluated by the system and
automatically either clear conditions or
create uh benefits from a post-closing
perspective. E-closing is a perfect
example of that.
e-closing really came in, you know,
started to build uh acceptance during
the pandemic. And as a part of that,
what you're able to do is you're able to
take those documents that are locked
down and the data that created them,
which is also locked down within your
loan origination system, and you're able
to compare them without having to have a
human do a stare and compare on them.
This allows you to quickly figure out if
the documents coming in are accurate and
if there's any issues that need to be
addressed. On the lender price side, we
make it easy for our clients to make
changes on the fly. If they want to
introduce a new product, a feature, or
an LLPA, they can go right into the
system, make that change, and publish
it, and that system is now live for
their clients. We also use something
called NLP, natural language processing.
And this allows anybody to be able to
just type a sentence and the system will
take that sentence and turn it into a
rule that can be used for their various
products.
When you invest in companies that focus
on making your processes quicker,
easier, and more automated, that's where
you're going to uh improve your overall
cost of ownership and drive down the the
cost of origination.
>> That's a good closing point there, Paul.
And you've given our viewers a lot of
valuable information today. I appreciate
you chatting with me on this important
topic. Thank you for talking to me
today.
>> Thank you for having me. And I enjoyed
speaking with you as well.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
