Thousands of French people are moving to
Dubai to avoid paying
income tax. However, it is quite possible
to escape it without ever leaving the
territory. You just need to have
the right job. At 30 years old, he pays nothing.
But what he saves each year,
someone else comes and takes from him. At
30 years old, this sailor is exempt from a
lifetime ban. Amazing. It exists in France. I
work on ships under the
RIF flag, the French international register, which
gives several advantages and we'll
talk about them later, but you'll
see that it's quite exceptional.
I admit that I was unaware of this
specific feature. There are plenty of
exceptions in France. Gross assets
for our sailor €269,000 from the IMO, not
bad, I imagine his main residence,
shares and savings accounts. A
little cash to be on the safe side. Net worth
€71,000. So there you have it. Well, that
confirms that it's practically at his
main residence. Final score
82/100, so not bad but there are still a
few small areas for improvement. The
maritime trade profile at
€4541 per month is very precise. He is 30
years old, married, and planning to have 5
children, very specific. Merchant seaman status
under the RIF flag, income as a
result, as I told you, €4500 per
month, €4000 salary plus €541 from
CAF. I work on ships under the
RIF flag, French international register
, which gives advantages,
special pension scheme and above all I
am and always will be exempt
from income tax. Then he
told us, "As a sailor, I have 6 months of
vacation per year, which allows me to have
time to devote to
investment." Yeah, you're farting.
That's incredible. So what
exactly is the Rif pavilion?
Basically, when a ship sails, it has a
flag. You've already seen, you know, the
flag, if you've ever been to the
French Riviera,
to Cannes, to Saint-Ropé, you see all the
flags, it's still rarely
French flags, it's more often
British Virgin Islands and things like that,
Malta, because in fact there are
charges which are linked to the flag, there are
administrative constraints, there are
crew costs, in fact there are
many things and it turns out that the
French flag has become very
expensive because, well, too many
charges, too many constraints, it costs too much to
have a crew. So at one
point, all the
shipping companies started
registering their ships in other
jurisdictions. Panama, Malta, as I was
saying earlier, Liberia.
Liberia is very interesting. Obviously, I
'm not sure there's a big link
between France and Liberia, but well,
a priori, it's a tax haven for
shipping companies. In
2005, France said stop, they created
the RIF, they speak to us in our own language. This
rif allows the ships to remain under the
French flag. In return,
shipowners consequently have advantages.
You will find
container ships, oil tankers, ferries,
yachts, and of course, as I
mentioned, offshore vessels. So this is
the new version of the
French pavilion. In concrete terms, what happens
to sailors, since they don't spend
their time in France, you can well imagine
that if they are on a ship, it is to
sail to the four corners of the world and the
majority of world trade today
and goods are transported
by ship. And so when they are
abroad, they cannot be taxed on it
. So who doesn't pay
income tax and they have this, which
our sailor was talking about earlier, also
a special scheme called IM or
NIM. I imagine this system has
existed for hundreds of years and therefore
manages retirement,
health insurance, social protection, and it is
a special system because the job
of a sailor is arduous. It's a job where you
're quite isolated, you're away for a
long time because he told us he
had 6 months of work, meaning he
also had 6 months of work. And
I imagine he doesn't leave week by
week. It might be more like one month,
two months, three months. Maybe he'll leave for 6
months straight, I don't know. In any case, he's doing
big campaigns
and uh, so there's this special scheme
that's available. In the end, well, that
means our sailor doesn't pay any
taxes. So you can imagine that
€4500 gross, if that's net, well, that's
fantastic. And so her goal
is to finance her five future
children, to finance their studies, their wedding
and their driver's licenses
. Generate between €1000 and €2000 of
passive income for my retirement. We're going to
look at its cash flow. So you see
the salary, uh the budget and finally a
rather low savings rate, I would
say a savings account of €600, a company savings plan
OK, insurance, but there is
no PEA and there are very few
investments I find because,
well, there is the repayment
of the loan on his main residence, as
I was telling you earlier, there is
a daily life which is
expensive, €2500 total with €900 for groceries.
Well, he's clearly having fun and so, well
no, there's not much left, is there? In
fact, there's nothing left at the end of the month. I would have
invested all the rents received
from my quorum SCPIs. In this case, the SCPI quum refers to
Quorum Euruyon. So he's got
€20,000 worth of Chrome towards a
monthly dividend. So you see, every
month he receives an income. Tat
tata, he earns approximately €1000 per
month. €1000 per year, sorry. So
you see, €78 isn't bad. And he
tells us that he reinvests it, uh, well,
maybe he reinvests it in SCPIs
actually, huh. I think there is a way
they offer the possibility of
automatically reinvesting the rents
received to buy back shares. So in
fact we buy back shares with the
rents, thus increasing our capital.
My company savings plan is
100% funded by my employer, so I pay
€100 per month. He pays €100, his
employer adds €100, so that
makes €200, therefore €100 is free. So that
's excellent. Currently I am renovating
my main residence with the aim
of reselling it with a small capital
gain, buying a larger house
, renovating it, reselling it and
so on. So basically, he wants to buy a
main residence, renovate it,
and then resell it. Since there is no capital gains tax
on the resale of the primary residence, he
collects the capital gain,
buys something bigger, and does
the same thing again. You can see
the pattern, there are also people who
do this pattern in a rental version.
So they move into a rental property
that he owns a year before wanting to
sell it. They sell it, that's the
main point, they don't pay
taxes. Then they move into
another rental property and
resell it. extremely restrictive, let's be
very clear. But if you are
excellent property dealers or
excellent real estate investors, there are bound to be huge capital gains
to be
made and besides there are some pretty
crazy cases where people have done this, a couple did
this, I think, nine in a row, but
in the end the justice system ruled in their favor
because the tax authorities wanted to
audit them, considering it to be
an abuse. They were proven right.
So, there is case law
on this matter. But his stance on the
main resistance is much
less biased. It's much
simpler. Question: I would like to
open a PEA in the near future, as I
already have an account with Bourse Ban. I
want to open it at their place. Is this a
good idea? I hope to get a
promotion within 1 or 2 years, which will mean a
salary increase of €1000 more
per month, I imagine. This would
allow me to buy an apartment to
renovate and then rent it out. What do
you think? Okay, let's look at the
heritage. So we've already watched
Chorom Eon. We'll stay in the
IMO section and look at his house. His
house, well, he made a nice
profit, it seems. No, not for
the moment. 7. It decreased by 7%, but the
value of the asset increased. Well, not
much actually because it's
between 2000 and 209000 and 210000. So it's
quite low but it's
slowly increasing. What kind of house is it? 117
m² nice. He bought it in 2022 so
for now there is no capital gain but
I imagine that what he wants to do is by
renovating it create value
and therefore obviously capture a part of
that value. So if we look at the
associated tac loans, we see
the rates here at 1.5,319,137, so we have
a bit of everything. The average rate is 238, so that's
not bad at all. That's
below current rates. 21 years,
average duration, and so we can see that he will
gradually repay. Right
now he has €200,000 to repay
and in 20 years it will be over but he is
already planning to take out another
loan. Not much to say here except that well,
we'll have to see what
added value he manages to generate on the
RP because otherwise obviously
part of the strategy falls apart,
but I think he is, well, he seems
confident about the thing.
Next, on stocks and funds.
So what does he have here? So he has
a Swiss Life portfolio, which is
exceptional. So, these are
exceptional expenses. We're talking about
expenses. You have two levels of fees.
You have contract fees and you
have fees on the securities. So
here, you have 4.67%, we
break it down for you as car expenses. So you have
2.54% management fees on
unit-linked accounts and 0.65% on the
euro fund, but he doesn't have any. And the management of the
units of account, which is therefore here,
also costs him 2.55%. That makes it
very expensive, I think. Even worse, there's
a fee for payments on
arbitrations, on payments, sorry.
So as soon as he pays money, if he
pays €100 in fact, €96 of that
will be invested. There are some, it's
crazy, a little less, even
95, 25 and the rest, it's already going to be
expenses. You haven't even started
investing yet and there are already fees that have been
paid. So
life insurance policies with overdraft fees
are obviously prohibited. Now
finally it must be forbidden, no it's not
forbidden unfortunately but it must be
completely banned. Okay, here it is, we're
comparing it to Financial Life,
but in fact all good
life insurance policies with unit-linked fees
of 0.5% and ETFs will
give you an advantage. But there is
clearly a huge problem here
because the fees are far too
high. The capital gain is very good,
but the fees are not good at all.
Good little simulator, I'm starting from your
€20,000 contract. Um, how much did he pay
? Well, he paid €15,000 because he has a
€5,000 capital gain. UC, well, he only has
UCs. The average fees on the unit-linked investments
held are actually very simple. This is where
it's happening. Tac 2.5, so
it's expensive. The envelope fees on
the UCs are where the problem stings even
more. 216. Surf fees in euros are
not relevant. The entrance fee, well,
4.75. Monthly payment of €150. OK, very
good. Uh, so if we run the
simulation, switching to Financial Life, break-even
point in 21 months. Basically, it will take him
21 months to recoup the
cost of transferring his contract. €11,000
saved over a 10-year period,
I think. There you have it, 10 years old.
So it's still pretty good
. That's a lot of
money and uh the portfolio
today well the final portfolio
will be much higher and indeed there will
be a tax cost, there will be a
cost of €1500. That will depend on the
length of the contract. So
obviously, we will need to verify all
this data, uh, by having all the
values. But actually what you need to
look at is this, is that the
current contract well it takes you to, well, €39,000
according to the median and uh if you switch
to Finari, you start at, uh you start at
€52,000. So yeah, that's a monstrous
difference compared to a
similar contract with very good fees. But
you see the difference, you have all
the details
of the calculations there. By the way, we can
look at the performance distribution.
The idea is that it's basically a Monte Carlo rally car
that's running in the background. So we
look at the performance, the
median performance, the P90 and so on. So you
see, it's important to look at
your expenses. The information is available there, you
know. This person has Finar Plus
so they can access that. And if
you want to do the test yourself, well,
you just have to fill out the simulator
and you'll quickly see what's
interesting and what isn't.
But in any case, there is a decision
to be made here, that's for sure. At the very least, stop
contributing, but better probably, act as an
arbitrator. Opening a PEA (equity savings plan), by the way,
is your question. Well, opening the
PEA at Bourseau is fine. I don't think there's any
issue. If you are happy
with Bourseau and you already have an account with
them, which is the case, go for it. I think there are, there are, no
questions
to ask, right? The savings account, uh, well,
lots of savings accounts, I imagine there's the
Livret A, there's perhaps the LEP, there are
perhaps some
special savings accounts from the banks. There, there is the
popular savings account, there is
indeed the LEP of Mr. and
Mrs. The question to ask is, is this
the best investment
for children? And I think that,
obviously, the answer is no. So,
I don't know the children's ages.
Presumably, some have already been born. I do
n't know when they'll be old enough to
have, you know,
school fees other than, well, studies,
marriage, driver's license and so on. It's
quite difficult because, as you can see,
it's really a huge gap.
The university €500 HC00
and then all the business schools,
engineering schools and so on. So we thought,
well, €30,000 seems pretty
reasonable. The wedding, well, there's
another family too, so we thought, let's
contribute €10,000. The
license, I don't know, it costs €1000
now maybe the license but let's
say €40000 of envelope, that
seems not bad and so well calculation
super simple that we did you start from
zero, you invest uh
you have to reach so it's
€40000 in the next 20
years. So if you do it, let's say
€100 per child per month, well you
're well ahead even at 18 years old, I think
at 18 years old, you're practically there. And so, well,
this is an investment, let's
say in a place, well, it's actually
quite balanced. 6%
is a little bit of stock market, a little bit
of bond. If you do 8% and you
say no, I want to take more risks,
well you can obviously get there
faster, as usual. Now
how do we do it? You can open a
life insurance policy for your children, so one
in the name of each child. You can also
open a securities account in your name and
then make a gift to each of your
children and therefore not pay capital gains tax
since you clear the capital gains tax
at the time of the gift. That's an
exceptional
tax advantage. The capital gain is net of
tax. So there are several options,
but what is certain is that using a savings account
will be complicated to finance
studies because the rate is capped.
Finally, 2.5%, well, we can do the
calculation here if you want. 2.5%. Okay, that brings you
to €26,000. That's not bad in
itself. It's not that far off, but
well, you see, compared to
6%, there's still quite a bit of
money missing and it won't finance, I think,
studies, driving licence, marriage and
such. The wedding won't be right away
, but still. So
the delivery, I think it's a very
good safe, defensive investment, a
safety net. If your children, you
see, are now in their studies
and you absolutely want to ensure that
you will be able to finance their
studies, then it makes perfect sense to
switch to something that is 100%
secure, savings account, euro fund,
bonds. But right now,
if you want to grow your
capital, it's going to be complicated if you
stay on this scheme because
the return is simply not high enough
. Before addressing your
question about buying
the apartment, what I wanted to
look at was retirement.
Can you generate between €1000 and €2000, which
is a huge range in
concrete terms? So I started from
your current net worth, obviously, I
assumed that you will get
your raise and that you will be able to
invest much more, close to €2500 per
month, that you will go 100% into the stock market
because you really want to
obtain the largest amount
possible. Well, retirement is actually
much further away from you. So
let's say you have 30 years left.
I don't know how long you've been working,
but let's say you still have
at least 30 years, maybe more. Well, you
see, if you really have the retirement
you're aiming for, you're way ahead, very, very far ahead
, huh. In reality, we're talking about
amounts in the millions. Now, if it's
uh passive income uh for
financial independence, obviously
uh on a shorter horizon, it's a
bit like life, the story is
quite different, but in any
case, I think you're very well
advised. The only question you really need to ask yourself
is, when you sell
your main residence, will you
really want to buy another one?
Well, it will depend on the tumble. If you
do a really nice somersault and you
master the operation, clearly, it
can be great. Otherwise, it would be
interesting to look at other types
of investments that are less
time-consuming since we see that here, you
see, your insurance seen in itself, it
works very well, even with fees
that are gargantuan. So that could
be very interesting. So,
last question: is it
worth buying an apartment? Yes
, it's worth it. Finally,
if you have borrowing capacity,
why not? Now, the
question you need to ask yourself is whether you'll make
more money by
buying a new primary residence
with maximum leverage,
renovating it and reselling it, than by owning
a rental property? Intuitively, I
think it's more interesting to
build a main residence and
try to achieve the performance of
making a good trading operation
. If you have the capacity to imprint,
which seems to be the case, then there you go, you
still have capacity available,
why not. Now,
for me, this needs to be put into opposition. Finally, not in
opposition, but this must be
weighed against your roleplaying strategy, which
is an interesting strategy.
Now we still need to see at what
price you will exit and what the
size of the capital gain will be. Let's finish with
your Finari score, where are you losing
points? I remind you that you scored 82
out of 100. Uh, you're not investing in the
POA, but you've already identified that. The
ETFs are not there. I think that's
the big, big issue. Well, there's
no overlap issue. You only have one
bottom. Um, are your expenses at rock bottom
? Not at all, you have the maximum fees
, you don't do stock
picking. So, you don't have a CTO
either, that could be interesting
for your children or a life insurance policy, something to
consider. Uh, no crypto on your end. The
taxation is not optimal because,
well obviously, PA is more
attractive than life insurance based
purely on the logic of capital
gains tax. So congratulations on your profile, it's
really interesting to see a sailor and to
discover this regime
under the RIF flag, I did
n't know about it at all. So if you
want to avoid paying taxes, well, you do
n't need to go to Dubai, become a
sailor. It's much simpler.
Finally, it's much simpler. I don't
actually know, no, it's probably
more complicated, but you can stay
in France and you won't be
taxed. If you are interested in
learning more about ships under the
Rif flag, the fact of not paying
taxes for life, if you want to ask
all these questions and others for that
matter, it will be on the community as soon as
this video is released. So you
can go and see, we've put the link to the
topic in the description and you
can ask him questions there.
If you want me to analyze your
assets, then apply, the
link is in the description. Each
week, we select one with the
teams and then together. We
dissect it on Sunday morning while
you drink your coffee and that way, we
collectively become a country of
better investors. So I'll see you
next week and I
wish you good investments. Ciao
!
