Good afternoon everyone. Uh it's it's
kind of a funny time to be doing this
panel. We were discussing when when we
were preparing for it. Uh at this you're
seeing it all over this conference. It's
a little bit difficult to see two or
three months in the future. Right now
we're going to look 25 or 50 years into
the future on this panel. Uh, and we're
going to try to set that frame so we can
can get that look into the future and a
look at what we can do at a serious and
persistent problem in the United States,
which is our large federal debt,
persistently high budget deficits and
budget deficits that may be set to
increase before they can decrease. Uh,
to have that conversation, I I have with
me today Maya McGinness, who runs the
committee for a responsible federal
budget in Washington, DC. uh Steven
Minutuchin, of course, the uh former
Treasury Secretary, also founder and
managing partner at Liberty Strategic
Capital. Paul Ryan, former speaker of
the House of Representatives, also
budget committee chairman prior to that.
Uh Alan Schwarz, who is the executive
chairman at Guggenheim Partners, and
finally, Philip Swaggel, who directs the
Congressional Budget Office. Uh and so,
Phil, I'd like to start here with you to
scope what is this problem that we're
looking at? Um, a couple of times a year
your office puts out projections for the
next 10 years, uh, projecting a budget
deficit of just over 6% of GDP for this
year, also just over 6% of GDP 10 years
from now. Um, but that's a projection
that comes before a lot of things that
we know are coming down the pike.
There's going to be a reconciliation
bill that Congress will pass that's
likely to grow the budget deficit. Your
projections are based on 1.9% economic
growth this year. I don't think we're
likely to see that. Um there have been
significant headcount cuts at the IRS
which could impact collections. And then
of course there have been the tariffs
and the changes to interest rates uh as
a result of the tariffs. And so when
when you add all of that together, can
you help give us a little bit of a
picture of what we're actually looking
at in terms of budget deficits that are
likely to come in the next few years.
Okay. Um you know, it can get scary
quickly. We'll we'll do our next budget
update in um sometime over the summer.
But adding up and so just taking that
scenario, right, the um extension of the
2017 act, the expiring provisions,
that's about one percentage point of
GDP. Um if the volatility that we've
seen over the last couple of weeks
knocks a percentage point off of GDP
growth, well, that and so just gives you
another percent, you know, sort of
smoothing out the nonlinearity there. So
you can start looking at budget deficits
of 8%
now and then if GDP growth remains weak
you know if that's persistent it can get
much much higher. Can I just say one
more word which is on the positive side.
You know on the other hand right the
administration is very focused on
stronger growth and you know we have a
pretty modest growth path and if they
are successful over time that would help
go in the other direction
right that growth path it's basically 2%
real growth long run. Is that right?
That's that's right. And this is we have
a balancing out out of slower
demographics and then um you know that
that's holding down uh GDP uh GDP growth
but then productivity growth is
rebounding somewhat from kind of the
weak productivity growth of the the past
decade.
Uh Secretary Minutuchin, we we had uh
your your successor Scott Bessant here
this morning um who said among other
things that he's hopeful that we will be
back to 3% real growth about a year from
now. um and that he's hoping to reduce
the uh budget deficit by about a
percentage point a year. Do you do you
see a path in that direction from the
policy that we're seeing from the new
administration? What's what's the case
that we're actually going to be looking
at shrinking budget deficits and more
robust growth than the CBO might
predict?
Well, I'd say that's that's definitely a
potential path. I think there's a lot of
uncertainty over certain issues at the
moment, but you know, I I look back to
when Paul and I worked together on the
2017 tax cuts. Um the numbers were
smaller. It was a trillion and a half at
the time. And we were saying the same
thing. We were saying that if we can
grow the economy at 3% instead of 2%, we
will have a surplus and we will begin to
pay down the debt. Now, at the time,
debt to GDP was close to 100%. we're
closer to 125%.
So I I think we're in a much more
difficult situation. We were also in a
low interest rate environment. We're in
a higher interest rate environment now.
But I I think it is critical that we
begin to lower these leverage ratios.
And you know, I I do look back at CO and
CO was obviously just an extraordinary
situation where we shut down the
economy. And I think the the the first
two trillion dollars we needed to spend
or we would have had a depression, not
worldwide recession. But then the
ongoing spending and part of the problem
was this normalized trillion dollar
spending is a problem. And then lastly,
I would just say, you know, I I do think
Elon and Doge coming in and we'll see
where they end up, but you know, the
president uh uh you know appears to be
interested in cutting government
spending. So, if we can have some
government spending and some additional
growth, I I think we can get a path
that's on the right track, but there's a
lot of work to do because, as you said,
we're starting for from a 6% number.
Speaker Ryan, building on that, in terms
of if if you know, if there is an
aspiration in this administration to
have spending cuts that materially move
this uh these numbers, it seems to me
the president has circumscribed a lot of
that. He doesn't want to cut Medicare or
Social Security. There's an ongoing
political fight over Medicaid, but seems
to be they're trying to keep it in the
waste box. And then there's an argument
over what what's really waste, but we're
probably not looking at the sort of deep
Medicaid cuts that certain conservatives
in the House might want. They want to
spend more on the military. Uh they
can't affect the spending on on interest
and interest rates have gone up. Is
there I I can't look at that budget math
and say that I see a way. It It looks It
looks to me like, you know, if anything,
there's there's not going to be
significant spending savings here out of
this. you're looking at about about 10%
of the budget. They want to cut by 22%
in their current budget. So, domestic
discretionary spending, there's an
appetite to cut that.
I think the budget that just came out
yesterday proposes like a 22.6% cut to
that, but that's about it.
Um, if you look at the current
reconciliation bill, it has spending in
it. It's got 300 billion in spending for
DoD and for uh immigration border uh
stuff. So, there the 880 that Commerce
Committee is trying to get out of
Medicaid, we'll see. They're having a
hard time putting the votes together for
that. But this this Congress isn't what
we used to be. I don't think either of
the two political parties, frankly, um
have any real appetite for entitlement
reform, which is where the money is.
So, when you're looking at, you know,
threequarters of the budget is is in
mandatory spending. Put your interest
aside. It's the mandatory entitlement
programs which is driving this debt. and
both parties have been sort of more or
less taken over by populism which stands
against doing something about that. It
it wasn't too long ago we would actually
make these proposals and pass these
bills but that is just not where we are.
So I just do not see an appetite um in
Congress today or in the White House
today to go after the big drivers of our
debt which is the mandatory spending.
And then while I continue doing the
RaidCloud bit before we start talking
about possible solutions, uh Allan, the
you know, one silver lining that one
would normally look for in a situation
like this where we're having this
economic turmoil is that normally you
expect when there's some sort of crisis
that there's flight to quality and that
that drives lower interest rates on
government debt and maybe a stronger
dollar. And we're really seeing the
opposite of that right now. Can can you
help us make sense of why why are the
financial markets reacting in this
direction and you know what should we
expect in terms of are we going to get
any any help on those interest costs or
are we actually just going to see more
headwinds there
right well got to define what flight to
quality means right and so I think what
people have been missing is that we've
been you know very uh comfortable that
everybody looks at the dollar as being
the strength in the global economy but
foreign central banks have not been
feeling that for a number of years. And
so I believe that the underlying
foundation of the dollar and treasury
market has been eroding over the last
number of years and we better pay
attention to it pretty soon. So the the
the easiest sign of that for me to see
there's two things out there. one over
decades, bottom line is gold would go up
in periods whenever real interest rates
went down. And they just correlated the
real interest rates go down, gold goes
up, real interest rates goes up, gold
goes down. It was it was a very very
careful thing. Over the last, I'm going
to guess three or four years, we've had
a rise in real interest rates and a rise
in gold to record highs. And now think
about where gold might be if speculation
wasn't allowed to move over to Bitcoin
at the same time. So even with that,
gold has gone up to record highs. Less
speculation and more of it driven in my
belief because foreign central banks
have been moving more of their reserves
even in a period of a strong dollar and
high real interest rates into gold and
out of dollars. What they're sort of
saying is we know there is no
alternative right now to the dollar but
we have to start hedging because we
don't know how long we can rely on the
dollar being this the safety and then
one other thing that we're seeing if you
look at getting geeky the swift payment
system all transactions amongst
countries went through swift right all
of a sudden in the last year or two
we're seeing China and some bilateral
and now multilateral agreements to trade
through another system that allows them
to transact in different currencies
through a system that is an alternative
to swift. And if you think about it,
they say we're trying to move further
and further away from reliance on the
dollar for everything we do. So the main
point about that is we should not sit
here and think that we've got a lot of
years to figure out what we're going to
do about this deficit because at some
point the markets are saying we're going
to have to hedge against the dollar and
it's no longer the
safe place to go.
Maya, the thing that strikes me about
all of this is this. This is the
situation we're describing before the
acute crisis. I mean like these 6% of
GDP budget deficits are not a deficit
that is arising because of a recession.
This is the budget deficit before we
might be on the cusp.
These are the good times
of Right. Exactly. And then similarly
this distress you know that that makes
the the that adds these additional risks
if the government is going to have to go
out and borrow in a more intense way
that is again coming at a time when we
you know we should be in a position of
strength. When you look back you know
over the decades you know your efforts
in Washington to get people to focus on
this problem. This this feels like I
mean these this isn't the worst fiscal
position that we've ever been in the in
the last 30 years, but it's the worst it
it feels like the worst combination of
fiscal position and political capacity
to do anything about the fiscal
position. It should be a relatively good
time and it's not.
Yeah. Um let me drill down on some of
the bad news that the other panelists
have shared because it it this one of
the reasons you want fiscal
responsibility is to be ready when the
bad times come along and we're not in
one. We're in a good time and yet all
the warning lights are blinking really
loudly. The fiscal situation itself,
like Phil was talking about, terrible.
Our debt in four years, as a share of
GDP, is going to be the record. Last
time that was that happened, it was set
right after World War II. If we do
nothing else, we're going to borrow like
$22 trillion over the decade. Interest
payments are the single fastest growing
item in the budget. And the deficit is
the highest it's ever been in a nonmer
emergency period. Oh, and Social
Security and Medicare are both going to
become insolvent in roughly a decade and
we have a bunch of politicians promising
not to fix them. So, it's a terrible
situation
and it's a terrible political
environment. I I really miss the days
when Paul Ryan was in Washington
actually talking about this issue and
showing people you could talk about
reality, but we've spent the past decade
only talking about fiscal myths like
don't worry, everything pays for itself.
No, it doesn't. Don't worry, MMT you can
just print more money. It's a terrible
idea. And because everybody's running
away from the actual choices of
budgeting, I think what the secretary
laid out of a 3% target of GDP is
exactly right. Exactly the right target.
That would take about seven and a half
trillion in savings over the next 10
years. And just for perspective, the
only deficit reducing action we've taken
in the past decade was the fiscal
responsibility act. And that saved about
one and a half trillion. So this will be
many times more. And to end on like what
I think is the worst of all of these
parts. Our political environment is
absolutely crummy for doing this because
we have people who run on promising not
to do anything real. They aren't on the
level about what it's going to take.
We're going to have to do very
structural entitlement reform because
we've waited until the last minute.
We're going to need new revenues. They
don't have to be stupid. You don't I
mean the corporate rate should stay low.
Individual rates should stay low. But we
spend over 20 trillion dollars through
the tax code over a decade in tax
expenditures. We need to broaden that
base. But we're so polarized. Our two
parties are in the midst of like a cage
match over who can pander more and give
away more. So you don't really have this
discussion in Washington at all these
days. And I think it makes us incredibly
vulnerable.
Paul, did you have
Yeah, I was just gonna say unfortunately
everything Mia is saying is correct. Um
the what's frustrating from as for
recovering politicians is we were more
serious before and we have relapsed on
our seriousness of dealing with this.
And what's frustrating about this
especially is all of these problems are
within our control as our own country.
We see this coming. We know what we need
to do. We could fix this but we won't or
we're not. And it's because our
political situation has deteriorated
even more. Just to give you a sense of
this, um before I was speaker and ways
and means chair, I chair the budget
committee. 10 years ago, I passed a
budget off the House floor with 231
votes um that cut $6.4 trillion out of
the baseline. We raised the retirement
age. We means tested Medicare. We block
rented Medicaid. We did food stamp
able-bodied work requirements, etc.,
etc. If you took that budget on today's
baseline, we'd be cutting 11.6 6
trillion out of the baseline. 10 years
ago, we had the votes for that. 10 years
ago, we passed that off the House floor.
They're they'll be lucky if they can get
two trillion in this reconciliation bill
out of this baseline. By the way, that
won't be net 2 trillion because 300
billion spend 2.8 if you're lucky.
So, the problem is we have just
deteriorated, you know, fiscally with
the ability to take these things on. So
that's what's frustrating about this is
this is the most predictable economic
crisis we've ever seen in our country.
We know Treasury auctions may fail. We
just don't know when. And we know what
the Fed will do when that happens. And
and we the guys like this probably know
what it's going to look like when it
happens. And we could avoid this, but it
doesn't look like we're going to. That's
what's so frustrating about this.
Um I do want to flag for for the
audience. Uh there's a QR code that
we'll bring up. Uh if you have questions
that you'd like to ask the panelists, uh
you can scan the QR code which they will
put up there any moment. Um and then uh
you can type in your question, it will
appear on the iPad that I'm holding here
and we'll we'll take some of those
audience questions as we get into that.
One thing I wonder about given what Maya
and and Paul have described here is, you
know, you have this this political
situation where there's there's no
desire to take this on and we have these
warnings of, you know, long run risks if
we fail to do that. And it makes me
wonder what what is the forcing
mechanism here because I mean the the US
has done fiscal adjustments in the past
in 2011 there was a major agreement with
under President Obama when you and
yeah did a deal with Petty Murray
right
and then and then you know there in 1993
and 1990 and in the with the Greenspan
Commission in the 80s we we used to do
this we used to people used to look at
it and say you know there's this big gap
and they'd get together and come to fix
it. So what what has to change for that
to happen? Does anyone have ideas about
what what forces might bring that to
bear in Washington?
Well, I I I would say there's a couple
of different things. So, um you know,
just let's just take Social Security and
uh it it's obviously very difficult for
any politician to say that they're going
to cut Social Security benefits. Having
said that, um as Treasury Secretary, I
had to sign off on a Social Security
report every year,
right? So there's a date. We we know the
date that Social Security will run out
of money and this is effectively an
offbalance sheet liability. So at some
point in the near future, we need to
have a bipartisan solution what we do
for social security since neither party
is going to want social security to run
out of money. I I think you know health
care costs uh you know look I'm
optimistic that with AI and other
technology
we'll have savings in health care costs
which are a big component of this um you
know as as it relates to the uh the
Treasury auctions. It's unfortunately
not quite as simple as the Fed stepping
in and and and buying a failed auction.
The Fed
technically can't do that. Um, you know,
we're also in an environment where the
Fed is downsizing the portfolio and not
increasing, which puts additional
pressure. So, I mean, I I I think step
one is the administration has to get
through the things they're doing that
they want the economic plan, which is
tax cuts, regulatory relief, and their
trade agenda. And then I I'm hopeful
that later on in this term that there
can be a bipartisan focus on costs. Some
of that can be done now through the
Republicans controlling the House, the
Senate, and and the presidency and
putting in savings and reconciliation. I
I had suggested on the tariff front, if
you want to have a 10% tariff across the
board, score it, put it in, and and you
can use that as savings. um if you want
to downsize certain of the expenses and
yeah there are limitations but there are
there are clearly government expenses
that can be cut uh and and can be
booked. But I I agree with Paul
ultimately you have to deal with the the
other side of the income statement and
and the spending not not just the
uh Allan just a real quick point. I
think one of the things if you look at
the financial crisis which I read about
but um you look at the financial crisis
consumers through that bit said you know
I can take on a lot more debt on my
house as long as my monthly payment is
lower and basically the government took
over from consumers since then and with
the big decline in interest rates one of
the things that's allowed this to keep
going on my opinion is everybody looks
at their current monthly payment so we
went rough numbers 17 years where
interest expense has been flat. And it
was flat because you paid off 8% with 6%
with 4%. All of that higher coupon
debt's been paid off. So we had flat
interest spence while we tripled our
debt. Now as we go forward, if interest
rates stay around where they're supposed
to be, our our current interest expense
is going to keep going up. And if by
chance we have to let interest rates go
higher, that squeeze on what the
interest expense is going to start to be
as opposed to just the spending itself
could be a catalyst to get people in the
room.
Phil, can we put some numbers to to a
couple of those things? First, the the
Social Security trust fund exhaustion.
And so, I guess as as a legal matter,
when the when the trust fund runs out of
money, the government is only allowed to
send out a fractional percentage of of
the social security. And so I think as a
political matter people expect that
isn't what would happen. There would be
some sort of patch but that you get
people to the table they have to pass
the patch and then you can argue over
what terms to to have in it. And so when
when are we looking at for that to
happen?
Right. So that that's right that when
the trust fund is exhausted the system
becomes effectively a cash system. and
that we have that as 2033 and benefit um
reductions would be about 25% to start
go up a little bit from there. Um so
that I agree that that's kind of the the
the obvious driving factor. You know,
the thing that's creeping up are
interest payments and the net interest
outlays and Allen is exactly like Allan
said and there's a sense which that's
probably crowding out other priorities
that members whatever they want to do is
tax relief or more national security
spending or homeland security spending
whatever it is those interest payments
are instances crowding out those other
things.
The and May I want to ask you about the
the interest rates because I see this as
a possible political forcing mechanism.
I you know I I actually really like to
look back at the 1992 campaign because
that that I think was the last
presidential campaign that really had
deficit reduction as an issue at the
forefront with all three candidates
pressing the idea that they were going
to do that. And and the focus there on
why individuals should care about the
deficit was there was this idea that
when the government borrows too much
money that makes it expensive for you to
borrow money. It makes it expensive for
you to get a mortgage. Companies can't
get financing to invest. Is that is that
a connection that can be start can start
being drawn for people again? Because we
went through this long period with
interest rates so low. They weren't
really central in our politics, but I
don't really see politicians making that
argument yet about we need lower budget
deficits so that your mortgage rate can
be lower.
Yeah. Yeah. In fact, the era of low
interest rates made this so much more
complicated. And we even had people
saying, "Look, interest rates are so
low, borrowing is basically free. We
should borrow more." And you don't have
to say that twice for a politician to be
like, "Okay, that seems like a pretty
good plan." So, we borrowed incredible
amounts beyond just COVID. Um, I do
think the increase in interest rates is
already being felt. I think people in
the markets, financial people are
talking about this and feeling this much
more than they were just a few years
ago. One thing you'll hear from folks in
Washington is no one cares about this
issue. I don't hear from anybody that it
matters to them, but they are starting
to a little bit. And folks who
understand markets are saying what
happened with treasuries was quite
alarming. And to watch that with stocks,
the dollar, and bonds all at once was a
big warning to us. The way that this is
going to change is one of two models.
It's either going to be out of crisis or
leadership. And the crisis almost
certainly will come from something in
the bond market or if there is a big
emergency where usually when we borrow
during an emergency, our rates stay low.
But if we are out of fiscal space and a
next emergency comes, our borrowing will
be much more difficult. That will be the
kind of warning sign. Leadership also
happened in the 90s um in an odd package
of Ross Perau, right? You had somebody
who wrestled this issue onto the agenda
and forced the politicians who didn't
want to talk about it to talk about it.
So, um, in my weird fiscal circles, we
spent a lot of time saying, "How do you
create like a pseudo crisis that would
just nudge people enough to start taking
this seriously and think about what you
would do ahead of time?" Like, build a
break the glass plan so you're ready
instead of waiting to the stupid
self-inflicted crisis of waiting till
the last moment. when when we I I want
to turn to the revenue side in a second,
but to to stay on on the spending cuts
for a moment, if we're talking about,
you know, quote unquote entitlement
reform, is this just the usual menu of
options? You can raise the retirement
age, you can adjust benefit formulas,
it's basically that, you know, you
either have some sort of you could cut
across the board, you can do something
that tries to make it more progressive
with some sort of means testing. But is
that is that what the political
proposition has to be that basically
benefits, especially old age benefits,
will simply be less generous in the
future? Yeah, I I would say we've
learned a lot about how to run
retirement systems and health care
systems since we started these programs
in 1932 and 1965.
So, there's a lot more we know. In
Medicare's example, the federal employee
health benefit system is a very popular
system that works well that has far
lower cost increases than current
Medicare. So, we have road maps on what
to emulate to bring good reforms. And
and for for the scorekeepers, if you do
something like that, you're effectively
taking a program that is now a defined
benefit open-ended program and putting a
a a fixed growth rate on it, and
basically turning into a defined
contribution program,
and then you're underneath that doing
things like you just described, raising
the retirement age, means testing the
benefit, subsidizing a person's premium
based on health and wealth. That that
model works. They score it pretty well,
and it gets you out of the woods. But it
is a combination of newer things we've
learned in society about how better to
run these programs using private sector
choice and competition along with those
sort of austere you know screw turning
things. The good thing about all of this
is if we step ahead of this we don't
have to do it to current seniors. It can
be prospective. So anybody who is in or
near retirement today won't have this
apply to them. It will be to tomorrow's
retirees. Let's just take before when we
did it was 55 and below. I don't think
we have the physical space for that.
Let's just say 60 and below. So, at
least you have a little bit of time to
prepare and politically you can survive
it because you're not taking it away
from current seniors.
We wait till we get a really bad
situation. We may not be able to do
that. If we're doing urgent budget
surgery to dodge the vigilantes in the
bond markets, we may not be able to do
that.
The last thing I'd say is I think the
only game in town right now is a fiscal
commission with teeth. I was on Bull
Simpson. B Simpson was literally dead
before we left the room in the last
meeting because the president of the
United States and the speaker of the
house at the time put out press releases
saying we're not doing it and therefore
they didn't. So a a fiscal commission
with teeth like the green span 84
commission on social security that
requires Congress to vote on it, not
amend it, not filibuster it. And then,
you know, maybe a president in his, you
know, in his last term, second half of
the last term,
you know, looking for a legacy, save the
dollar, dodge a debt crisis, could do
that. But it, to Steve's point, it has
to be bipartisan. And the lynch pin is a
debt limit deal, some fiscal deal where
you have a tight Congress and that is
the price of getting that package passed
which is requiring a statutory
commission to bring to Congress
something like that.
Phil, you had your hand up.
No, I I was just I I certainly agree
with everything. I was gonna I was just
thinking about your your original
question is that entitlement reform
doesn't have to be only austerity,
right? Right? I mean, you can make the
system more progressive by increasing
benefits at the bottom
and you know, uh, decreasing benefits,
net benefits at the top, whether with
revenues or with with spending, right?
Because the system is progressive now,
but the benefits for people at the
bottom in terms of dollars are really
quite meager. And that's what Paul means
by we've learned a lot that it's a
safety net and and maybe the bottom of
the safety net just isn't, you know,
isn't as strong as it could be. the the
that's true as a theoretical matter, but
I just again I think back to what's
actually happening in this political
environment. The one of the president's
key proposals around social security is
to exempt social security benefits from
from taxes. That is effectively a
benefit increase for the upper end of
the scale because lower income people
don't pay
and that revenue finances Medicare and
social securityities. You're actually
cutting those programs if you actually
took that revenue stream away.
Right. So, and then we also one of the
few examples of Congress working
together in a bipartisan manner
effectively recently was to increase
social security benefits. They passed a
law there. There's a Byzantine system
for if you're spent part of your career
as a government employee not in social
security and some people had some
reasonable fairness complaints and
instead of tweaking the system, they
just basically threw a whole bunch of
money at all of these people. So, you
know, the in in theory that could be
done, but you know, the idea that Donald
Trump would want, you know, his, you
know, his last lame duck period to be
doing this like horrible thing that
everyone in Washington hates to try to
do in defense of a dollar, which it
doesn't even seem to me that the
administration is sure that it wants a
strong dollar. So, I just, you know, the
I I I see the theory here. I just, you
know, I have a very grim feeling about
the likelihood of that actually
material.
I didn't say it was a great answer. That
was the best answer I got for you.
But but we just h we do have to start
telling the truth about social security.
Like it is not rocket science how to fix
it. It's a bunch of moderately difficult
choices. One of the benefits is many
young people think they're not going to
get it anyhow. So by just giving them
partial benefits, they are getting above
what they think they would get get. But
if we just go along and then we hit the
trust fund, we run out of money and we
start plowing general revenues into it.
Just remember our budget. We already
give $6 to every for to a senior for
every one we give to people under 18. So
we are making a choice then to increase
the share of our budget that's going to
seniors at a time where there are huge
needs in terms of whether whatever it is
for security, cyber security
investments, competition, energy, uh
human capital like take your priority.
It's unlikely to be wealthy seniors
pensions and that would be the thing
that we are making a choice to put
trillions of dollars more in. So we
can't and by the way in that thing you
just mentioned webg uh one of the unions
leaked my phone number to the seniors
about protesting this and so I know
they're very very scary. I would never
want to be a politician who had to go
against the ARP or other groups. But we
have to tell the truth that this program
we are continuing to make promises that
we can't keep and putting all the
resources in there takes them from
something else that's arguably a higher
priority.
I I wanted to make a comment on the
dollar because uh now that I'm no longer
the Treasury Secretary I can comment on
these things.
Yes, please. Um I I I believe that the
administration understands the
importance of the dollar being the
reserve currency and I think for the
foreseeable future notwithstanding there
may be some central banks that move into
gold those are on a relative basis
no there's no alternative massive
numbers there really is no alternative
currency so I think the good news is for
the foreseeable future we will be the
reserve currency we couldn't finance
these deficits
if we weren't the reserve currency and
and I think with that comes a level of
responsibility because we are the
reserve currency of the world but also
comes a level of benefits on on the
swift issue. The reason why people are
trying to get away from swift is because
of sanctions
and you know again our sanctions because
they're reserve currency are a very
important foreign policy tool. So I I
think we always wanted a stable dollar.
We we didn't want a weak dollar. We also
didn't want a dollar that was too strong
over time. But it it it is in our
interest to have a stable dollar. And it
is very important for us to keep the
dollar as the reserve currency of the
world because if if people don't view
that, then we're going to have an even
bigger problem financing our our debt.
I just one one more thing to to Steve
and then and then Paul will go to you.
the do you do you think that the the
admin a desire to maintain the dollar as
the reserve currency and to have a
stable dollar is that consistent with
the administration's stated desire to
achieve this sort of rebalancing in the
global economic system I mean they seem
to want to discourage other countries
from holding US treasury bonds
no I I don't believe that at all I I
think that uh they they absolutely
understand that and I think by the way
on trade I mean a lot of these issues
were in Trump 1.0 to they're just
stronger. But I mean I I go back to when
and President Trump's been talking about
trade way before he was president.
During the first term, the economic plan
was tax cuts, regulatory relief, and
trade. And if we look at China trade,
just as an example, there's no question
that, you know, administrations
uh on both parties for a long period of
time had a China policy. The more we
open up to them, the more they'll become
like us. They didn't. and we ended up
with these big trade deficits because
our markets were open to them and their
markets weren't open to us. So I think
to the extent the tariffs are being used
to create a fair and level trading
pattern that's something that is is a
good thing and and I know is the
president's objective.
Sorry Paul it's on I was on the good
news front I think Congress is going to
pass the stable coin legislation this
summer and that is going to help spread
the dollar more widely across the world.
It's going to digitize the dollar and I
think it's going to help us buttress the
dollar as the global reserve currency.
So I think we've got good news also
coming on the dollar front.
Can can we turn and talk about the
revenue side? We've talked about ways to
cut spending. Do do we need tax
increases as part of this rebalancing?
We we don't. And if we look at corporate
taxes, you know, and everybody
criticized us the first time around, we
cut corporate taxes and corporate
revenues went way up and we simplified
the tax code in certain aspects, but we
need growth.
We need growth.
We need to get to 3% and not 2% and we
need a tax policy like uh expensing
which are very progrowth that get us to
that point.
But then
I'll take the other side of this. Yeah,
go ahead if I may. Um, so and I agree on
the corporate tax rate completely. That
is not the place where you want to get
revenue. But there's there's two points
I would make. One, if you look at the
current reconciliation bill, which
they're talking about, take the House
version of it, they are assuming growth
of about $2.6 trillion out of their
entire package. Outside estimators, the
range is 50 billion to 700 billion. So
they have an estimate that's many, many
multiples above. Part of the reason is
the most uh progrowth tax cuts are
already permanent. the ones that they're
extending are much less um progrowth.
But so they're assuming a much larger
multiple than is credible. But the
second thing I would say is we have the
chance right now to cut spending. There
is a reconciliation bill out there. The
Senate has put on the table something
where they would borrow $4.8 trillion
and they're asking themselves to save
two trillion. Now keep in mind spending
over the 10-year period is going to be
$86 trillion. and an all Republican
House, Senate, and President is asking
for two trillion. But the Senate didn't
like that bill. They said, "No, no, not
two trillion. We're going to just shoot
for 4 billion." 4 billion out of 86
trillion. So, the problem that I'm
seeing is that no, no one actually has
the courage or their convictions when it
hard comes to the hard things. They
don't actually want to cut government
spending. And Democrats don't really
want to raise revenue except on
millionaires and billionaires, 2% of
people. Yeah.
And so we have an issue where I don't
think there's any conceivable way where
you can bring down get to that 7 and a
half trillion in savings from spending
alone. So I think you have to look at
the revenue side which would do the
least damage to growth. And again I
would go into our terrible tax base
that's filled with these tax
expenditures that are honestly just
spending programs hidden through the tax
code.
Alan.
Yeah. There's a number of things to
discount. One one quick one on Paul
Simpson. I agree with Paul and I don't
that's when Maya and I first met I tried
to go to the Obama administration and
say the way you should do B Simpson is
put it out there and then give Congress
six months which has happened before in
bill say I'll give you six months to
come up with something you like better
that's bipartisan if not this becomes
law and that's what I think not looking
to this administration necessarily but
if we run into a problem with the dollar
I'd like to see a bipartisan group come
together and say unless we get in a room
and not just argue that no, we need less
this and you need more that, we're never
going to get it done. But on I happen to
believe that we do need more revenue and
and growth is not the total answer. I'm
a Jack Kemp aicionado like Paul, but we
go through how many years of saying,
"Okay, we'll grow our way out." I
corporate taxes are a whole different
thing. They're not really the place to
tax. But the reality is of saying we
have 16 to 18% of our GDP and revenue
and we have 23 to 25%. We're going to
cure it all from up there is just not
realistic. And so something we've talked
about demographics which to me are the
future that's already happened. You hear
about them for so long that it seems
like no big deal. We not only
everybody's aware of the demographic
impact of senior citizens now growing
rapidly and what we owe them. We're not
aware of the fact that we now have a
declining working age population that is
significant. So that we used to have
five 18 to 64 year olds for every 65 and
over. We now have three and a half and
we're on our way to two and three/4ers.
So the main way we tax is through wages,
right? and earnings. That's the main 80%
of our tax revenue comes from that. So,
if we're going to turn around and say
this smaller and smaller percentage of
the population is going to have to come
up with 80 or 90% of our revenue, we're
kidding ourselves. We're not looking
forward. So, as you I think somebody
people know here, I have said yes, we
have to change social security. We have
to make the adjustments, everything
else. But when you really get into means
testing and stuff, it gets very very
tough to prove and get. So I have
believed for a long time that we are the
only country in the OECD that does not
have a
VAT.
And a VAT is quote a consumption tax,
although it's not entirely. And I say if
you want to really means test retirees,
they spend a lot if they have a lot of
money. And therefore most of that
revenue will come from there. you can
turn around and give more benefits to
the people at the lower end because it's
quote regressive. So we have to think
about get in a room and think about the
new ways we look at both revenue and
spending instead of sitting on two sides
of the aisle say get the revenue from
the rich or get the spending and that's
all. So I think we got to look at both.
Uh, Phil, you
Oh, no. I was just I was I agree with
everything everything has been said and
just to expand on the the challenge
here. It's in some ways the 2017 act was
very thoughtful, right? The as as was
said just a minute ago, the progrowth
parts are permanent, right? The
corporate rate is permanent and the
international tax provisions that
increased US competitiveness are
permanent.
And you know, then there are a bunch of
base broadeners, right? the um
indexation of the tax brackets, the um
mandate in the ACA,
salt,
salt, yeah, salt there in the
repatriation. And so that in offset some
of the drag from the the deficit and
it's just hard to do that again because
the you know the really progrowth stuff
is permanent already. That means you
can't extend it. And so, you know, the
the individual rates are there's some
progrowth incentives there, labor
supply, but it's just it's just not as
as sort of high-powered as what was made
permanent. And that's that's the
challenge.
Can I make the flip side of that that
the economic damage from increases on
the individual side are not as as
pronounced. I mean the the corporate
income tax base is on the order of 10%
of GDP and that's where you get the
biggest bang for your buck in terms of
economic growth but through both cuts
and and restructuring. It seems like we
ought to be able to get both the growth
and the revenue thing by a shift in
where the base is. I mean whether a VAT
or even an increase in the payroll tax
there are ways that you could raise the
revenue that have a much smaller impact
on GDP than if you wanted to raise the
corporate rate back to 35.
Can I make another point on the growth?
Yes. And then
Paul you want to answer that? No, go
ahead. Le, you go first, then I'll I'll
go to you.
Well, it was the similar thing, which is
we're actually also getting to the point
where a dollar So, if you cut taxes, the
dollar of additional debt is close to
doing more damage to the economy than
the dollar of growth from the tax cut,
depending on which tax cut it is. So, we
have to be really careful to do what
you're saying, which is cut the most
progrowth taxes and raise the least
progrowth increases.
Yeah, that that's a decent trade. You're
not going to get that in this this
moment. But when we we wrote that bill
intentionally keeping the business stuff
permanent, Steve and I, we were the
designers of this because we knew that
that needed to be permanent for business
planning and certainty, etc., etc. The
challenge on the individual side of it
is is most of our businesses aren't C
corps, they're passroughs,
and they file individual taxes. If
you're an LLC or a sle provider or
subtract corporation, you're filing as a
person. That's mo that's like 80% of
American businesses. And what we did not
want to do is drop CC corps to 21 and
keep the the S corps up at 44.6%
effectively which would have happened
had we not done that. So we dropped
their rate correspondingly and and that
goes back up. So there is some progrowth
or anti-growth tax policy over here on
the individual side that's expiring that
we don't want to let expire because it
will really do a lot of damage to a lot
of businesses. And then as Steve
mentioned the expensing stuff that's
really the biggest kicker for growth in
this bill. I think everybody would agree
on that.
That's that's that's
too progrowth stuff. There's collateral
damage if you don't get this done to
growth.
Right. And not only do we lower the top
rate, but we added the pass through
deduction.
Exactly. 199A we call
which is is critical.
But
last thing I was going to say tax reform
can fix this. You can get a broader base
at higher revenues and still maximize
economic growth through a reformed tax
code that is more consumptionbased by
exempting savings and investment from
taxation effectively taxing
consumptions. There are different ways
to skin in that cat. You could do what
what what Allen's saying. You could do
an X tax, a cash flow tax. We've talked
about our border adjustment tax.
Wouldn't that be nice versus tariffs
these days? I digress. So, but I think
you can get to that maybe 20% of GDP
revenue line, not 24 or five. I agree.
But but but but not with this code.
That's the challenge.
But I want to push back on one thing,
Paul, because I was pushing back on this
when you guys were doing your bill. I I
agree. You want to be fair to passroughs
versus courses. But the only reason
passroughs exist is because people that
own their own business and then were
taking home their profits didn't want to
pay a corporate tax and then pay a tax
on dividends.
So they weren't being double taxed. So
the reason that you had the pass through
was to say, okay, pay your personal tax
rate. That's one time. Now all of a
sudden, you say, if I'm going to bring
the corporate rate down to here, I'm
going to still only tax you once and
you're going to get a CC corp rate, but
then those that are getting dividends
out of C corps are going to have to pay
a tax again. So I lobbied against it.
The funny thing was I said, "Look, I'm
an LLC, so I'll benefit, but I still
don't think." And then they went ahead
and said, "Oh, sorry. investment banks
and law firms couldn't do it. So I said,
"Okay, so you know, you knocked me out."
But I I do think we have to think those
things through
as to I said, "Why not give businesses
the opportunity to either pay this the
corporate rate and then go ahead and pay
taxes on distributions or be your pass
through?" But by giving them both, I
think those are the kinds of things that
I personally think we have to think
through.
We made a run at it in the Bush
administration to get rid of the tax on
dividends and we came up short.
Right. But I'm I'm just saying that that
one or the other, not not both.
I want to take some questions that have
come in from the audience. And again, if
you have more questions you want to
submit, we'll put that QR code up again
and you can send them in. Uh we have one
question about the IRS. Uh if the
government's revenue model is almost
completely based on on taxing income,
why do we refuse to invest as much as
possible in the IRS? And so of course
what's what's been in the news is
there's a huge headcount reduction
ongoing at the IRS from about 100,000
employees the ballpark of 65 or 70,000
employees and that's below there was a
big increase in headcount but this is a
larger decrease than the prior increase
it would be
let me comment on that one okay and this
goes back to I I can tell you eight
years ago
the IRS needed more money for technology
and Paul remembers this kind of one of
the things I said it's critical
we have to use technology. We don't need
more bodies. The the technology was in
the stone ages and needs to be upgraded.
The reason why the Biden administration
added all these people to the IRS is
there's a way that these things are
scored and if you add more people, you
assume you'll collect more taxes and you
you can put it through reconciliation.
So, I mean, I I I would argue, and maybe
we shouldn't be downsizing it exactly
the way we're doing it, but we didn't
need all those people. What we needed
was a long-term investment in technology
to upgrade the the the IRS. And and
particularly with AI, there there's ways
of doing this today that are much more
efficient than just throwing bodies at
it. But so you don't see if we have 30%
fewer revenue agents, fewer auditors,
you you don't think that that has an
impact on
No, I think I think that technology can
replace people and I think the
motivation of adding all these people
was when they were scoring this they
they could count the revenue.
It's a tax cap score. It's a it's a
gimmick.
I agree with I agree with Steve. But
I'll tell you one thing. The headlines
about getting rid of everybody, I swear
to God, I've heard this a few times. My
wife's hairdresser said, "Isn't it great
we don't have to file our taxes?" And
there's a bunch of people that are now
saying that. And without the technology,
it's really just funny that people are
going, "This is great. We don't have to
pay taxes."
Well, they're going to repeal the tax on
tips anyway, so he actually isn't going
to have to pay taxes. Uh, Phil, I I I I
think this is probably not something
that you loved having to deal with, but
that you you were doing that score and I
remember you came under criticism from
Democrats that the score wasn't big
enough, that you had underestimated the
amount of revenue that would come from
this. What What's your view on how these
changes at the IRS affect?
Yeah. Yeah. That was a highlight of my
first term at CBO was having it was I
think it was a deputy White House press
secretary criticizing me like
it was some line like CBO doesn't know
anything about the IRS and of course
like of course all of our people doing
it were former Treasury people. So um
yeah we we we do that cost estimate. We
tried to get information from the Biden
administration treasury about okay
you're going to get this money if you
get it what will you use it on? And it
was, you know, very general. They said
technology. So they, you know, such as
they had that in their heads, but we
just we couldn't get information on well
exactly what are you gonna do? So our
cost estimate, our score for that those
resources is very general. I we just we
assumed they're going to do like the,
you know, the highest ROI things first
and then go down.
But it's based on these historical
studies and just we just could not get
them to say, well, exactly what are you
going to do? And that was just you know
what am I supposed to do if they won't
tell us what their plans are.
Um we have a question about the
population growth and basically is there
a role for more population growth more
immigration a higher birth rate. I mean
obviously those are both long run things
and birth rate especially is not proven
especially amenable to policy influence.
Are there is there anything we can do to
control our destiny there in terms of
this you know the math that feeds into
the budget? I would ask Phil Suego a
question. If I'm not mistaken, your
long-term model says we're going to grow
at about 1.3% over the next 30 years
almost solely because of the lack of
population growth. And if we
if we change our immigration laws and
brought in working age populations in a
work-based system in such a way that
doesn't depress people's wages, which
you can do with today's technology,
their model gets you up in growth. I
don't know if you can get to 3%. But but
my question is we could get with with
let's let's just say we do entitlement
reform and we save the dollar and
prevent a debt crisis. The only other
thing we really got to do to get to 3%
growth is this right
skills. Yeah. Yeah. And it's something
we've we've enhanced our modeling to do
that that we we have a lot of modeling
and so you can reconcile that. We're yes
we now can take into account well what
are the characteristics of the
immigrants are the people with
relatively low education or higher
education and there's a bigger growth
impact from higher education and there's
no normative view there
but these are scorable savings now
these are we would it would be part of a
dynamic score we would do that
there's one other thing just that it
really people it's overhyped right now
but if you if you if growth is hours
times productivity there's two ways you
can get more growth it's either hours or
productivity right and if we invest just
the right way and we really have public
partner private partnerships etc to
build out the infrastructure that some
of these AI can ride on. We actually
could get a situation that sounds the
opposite where people are afraid of but
we could use you could get a big
productivity kick on the investment over
the infrastructure that we could build
out. Look, China now has dark factories
building cars without one person in the
factory. Now that sounds terrible right
now. You say we don't want to replace
all those jobs. But if you have fewer
people, but you actually kick up the
productivity that way, you can actually
get the growth that you need and
distribute in ways to the people that
are going to be supporting that. So
we've got to we've got to think about,
you know, one of the things I said when
I became an economist, people said,
would you have studied economics? I
said, no, I would have studied history.
Because you got to look back and say,
it's not just the period we've been in.
What are the secular things that we have
to look at? And if we would think more
about the infrastructure buildout around
the productivity boom, it could be a big
gamecher.
We have several questions about a
sovereign wealth fund and there's been
some talk about this in the
administration. I'm Sovereign wealth
funds are for countries with lots of oil
like and and budget surplus, right? Is
there any is there any role here for a
sovereign wealth fund?
Do do you do you have a sense Steve of
are they serious about that? I I I I
think the answer is there can be okay I
mean there can be strategic investments
that it makes sense for the US to do and
in that sense the sovereign wealth fund
could have a role now in a way we do
have a sovereign wealth fund it's called
social security had we invested social
security
in the S&P a long time ago as opposed to
investing it in our own bonds we
wouldn't have a problem with social
security today so I mean I I I think and
this is But you know, Paul said, if we
can get rid of kind of, you know,
defined benefit plans and convert them
into defined contribution plans, then
there is a role for potentially a
sovereign wealth fund to manage that
money.
Um, I just want to sort of
But our sovereign wealth fund would
still be financed all from borrowing.
So, it's not even really a sovereign
wealth fund. It's just borrowing.
We have a sovereign wealth fund. It's
called the Fed. But quantitative
quantitative easing is a basic
arguments. There's lots of good for the
resources, but it would still just be
borrowing.
Well, it it wouldn't be the equivalent
of a sovereign wealth fund that other
countries have when they have limited
resources and their objective is to
transform the economy. Yeah.
So, there could be a role. It's not
synonymous with
exactly what every other one is.
Good point.
I I just want to review some of the
things that we've discussed here in
terms of, you know, things that would be
part of the way out of the woods. We're
supposed to cut Social Security probably
by with a retirement age increase. You
might have some increase in
progressivity. So instead of things like
eliminating taxes on Social Security
benefits, he would be reducing benefits
for for higher income seniors. Um we're
maybe going to have more immigration. Um
uh uh Allan wants a VAT.
All of this is just politically awful.
Like the absolute opposite of what
people are discussing doing in
Washington right now. Well, let me go on
the record. I don't like the VAT. So, I
don't either. I don't think I thought I
would have. And a lot of people think,
you know, kind of uh the reasons why
Europe amongst a bunch of other things
is it's it's very easy to just add a VAT
and continue to tax and spend. I I I
also think and I just want to clarify, I
think we need to fix social security. I
don't mean that. I don't think the
headline should be we're going to cut
Social Security. Matter of fact, the
headline has to be we're not cutting
social security benefits,
at least for the majority of the
population.
Okay? Because I mean I I mean to save
money, you have to cut something.
The game is always we're never going to
cut current seniors. We're going to do
it. We're going to make changes for the
next generation so that we can cash flow
the program for current seniors and save
it from insolveny and bankruptcy. But
what what the the politicians say, if I
do that and I raise retirement age in 10
years or taper the benefit formula for
future generations, the ad against me is
going to be I'm cutting current seniors
and everybody's going to get confused
and I'm going to lose. That's basically
the political calculation. That's the
problem. That's why these things got to
be bipartisan. I want to say one thing
about the VAT these guys don't like.
Larry Summers said a while ago on a
panel we were on.
You know, conservatives don't like a VAT
because they say it's a spending
machine. Then liberals don't like the
VAT because they say it's regressive.
Sooner or later, they're going to
realize the other one is right.
Yeah. The problem with with on for
Republicans and conservatives is they
want the revenue, but they don't want to
give us the spending cuts. And so it's
like we're just going to give you more
revenue to feed this unsustainable
spending trajectory. The only way a deal
like this ever works is if you have them
paired together
where you know you're getting real
spending changes, real actual changes to
the spending line baseline. Then and
only then I think are conservatives
willing to entertain.
But look, Paul, that's 100% that's why I
I use the we need more revenue. Period.
Full stop. And we need less spending.
Period. Full stop. And if all we do is
argue that the other one's got to get it
done and then we'll be fine. We got to
get in a room like a B Simpson and say
okay how can we come together and come
up with something that we can all agree
on is a way to bring this together
because we just keep arguing it's your
side versus that side because the one
thing I want to say something I totally
agree with Steve that there is no
alternative to the dollar as a reserve
currency and that's really important but
the real question is how much is it
going to cost us to get the capital to
be the reserve currency because if over
time we get downgraded again in the US
treasuries. We can still be the reserve
currency, but if our cost of capital is
going like that, it's going to cause a
dramatic impact on our economy. So, we
shouldn't just take that reserve
currency for for you know.
Can I address your question in that um I
mean we have to do something about this
fiscal situation at the moment. It is
weakening our economy. It's weakening
our ability to respond to emergencies.
It's threatening our national security.
uh and it could lead to a fiscal crisis
when we would not be able to fix it on
our own terms. We have to do something.
I think the problem with your question
is it's really unattractive what the
solutions are. That's why we haven't
been doing it for so long. That's why
it's much more fun to be in the period
where you're borrowing than you're
fixing it. The bottom line, the truth is
the way you fix a fiscal imbalance is
you cut spending and you raise taxes and
you try to do them in the best way you
can. Um
or you cut spending and you grow the
economy.
You can do that but and and you know,
you both were talking about that, but
again, the Republicans right now don't
seem to want to cut any spending. Like,
let's cut some spending, but they're not
showing up to do it. And so, I'm really
worried about there being any willpower
to do anything. And I think part of that
is because we're out of practice of
actually budgeting and making these
choices. So, the way that the thing I
would recommend is like we should start
by passing budgets. We don't pass
budgets. We haven't passed a serious
budget in basically a decade. The ones
we pass are only to unleash
reconciliation. We should do that. We
should bring in the 3% deficit goal and
anybody who puts forward a bud budget,
it should have to meet that 3% deficit
goal or something like that. We should
stick with pay as you go, which means
you got to offset these things. So,
let's do these tax cuts and let's offset
them. Or if somebody wants to grow
spending, you got to figure out how. And
finally, I think like others have talked
about, we will need a fiscal commission
because we are so out of practice with
making the hard choices. we will need
something to give politicians the
political cover to do the choices that
there really is no avoiding at the end
of the day. Those are the things we're
going to have to do. I I think that's a
good note that we can leave the panel
on. I want to thank everybody for
joining us today. Thank you.
Good.
