Hi, my name is Prakash Sumani working
with AcueT knowledge partners.
I'm working with training and knowledge
department.
>> My name is Viml Singh. I head the global
talent acquisition function at equity
knowledge partners.
>> Last year we have been recognized as a
gold employer by CFA institute. This
award was very special to us. It is an
outcome of our longlasting relationship
with the institute. for our employees
talent pool and for our clients. This
award plays a differentiator between us
and the competitors who are operating in
the same space. So we are a leading
provider of bespoke financial research
analytics and technology solutions.
>> We do lot of work in asset management.
We do a lot of work in private equity,
private markets, consulting and
corporates, investment research. We
provide services to international
clients and that is where the role of
CFA charter holder is going to play a
very imperative role. Professional and
ethical standards are the pillars of CFA
curriculum and these are the qualities
which are very important for anyone to
become a successful professional in the
world of finance.
>> CFA is a globally recognized program and
it has created its niche in the talent
market.
What I love about CFA Institute is that
they keep on updating and upgrading
their curriculum with the current
demands of the market. It is very well
designed with all the foundations which
are required for someone to become a
financial professional. This program has
the element of risk management, credit
analysis, portfolio management and now
after the introduction of specialization
pathways in level three, it opened more
opportunities for the candidates. I'm a
CFA charter holder and FRM by
qualification. Being a charter holder is
a transformative journey for me. It is
privileged to have a CFA designation.
>> A lot of my work involves valuations
especially relative valuation. So when I
talk about trading and transaction
comparables
going through the CFA curriculum has
helped me deepen my understanding to
work on those aspects.
>> One of the major criteria for our
clients is to see that we are able to
match the standards which is required as
per them and these standards are very
very high. CFA being a global recognized
program adds value to that and it
provides that kind of education which is
embedded in the character of the
individual who are passing out from the
CFA institute.
>> As part of my day-to-day work, I work on
niche sectors
which was only possible because of the
vast curriculum that provided me that
knowledge to work on those products and
create customized solutions for clients
that otherwise would not have been
possible.
We are in the business of knowledge and
we always want that our employees should
be highly skilled and that is where the
role of CFA charter comes into the
picture. We give in-house trainings and
we also sponsor and support CFA and
other professional qualification courses
certification which are related with
their profiles.
Over
the period of time, the requirement from
the client has been changing and they
require skills and people who can do
high-end work. We have seen CFA charter
filling that gap providing individuals
who have capability to manage global
clients and fulfill the requirements
which are high in standards in terms of
financial services or ethical in nature.
>> It is highly desirable and required
qualification for the financial
professionals. It is a symbol of
excellence.
