So, I think it's clear for TPA that
there's this fever pitch on the LP side
of all flavors, of all sizes, and really
around the world. And yet, it seems to
me very few GPS are talking about this.
So, if this is truly the shape changing
form and motivation that I think we all
agree it will be, then there should be
massive implications it will follow for
the whole ecosystem. And yet, as I said,
GPS just don't seem to be on top of
this.
>> Yeah, I think it's a really good
observation. I think GPS aren't on top
of it because GPS don't want to be on
top of it. They like the old model. The
model is, hey, you have a subset of
asset allocations. If you look at
Kalpers, essentially what they're doing
is taking 11 different asset classes and
collapsing them all into one total
portfolio approach. But GPS like the
narrative of, hey, we have this asset
allocation. We've got to go and fill it.
and oh by the way we happen to be one of
those managers that you can work with
and fill in it. Very few GPS ever take
the time to acknowledge what their
commitment does to the total portfolio.
So I'll give you an example. We win a
billion dollar mandate or we're awarded
a billion dollar mandate. That is a
phenomenal achievement for us and we're
not dismissing that. But very few GPS in
a billion dollar mandate and a $300
billion plan don't pay attention to the
other $299 billion. Now if you think
about it in your own investments, how
many times do you think about the 30
basis point consideration? Not a lot. I
know I don't. Maybe I should do it more.
But the manager, one of the things we
always ask when we go in for the first
times is what is our role and how do we
complement the rest of the program? The
TPA approach, the total portfolio
approach is what does the entire
organism do? Not what does the arm or
the leg or the nose do. It's what does
the entire body of work represent and
what is my role in doing that? And I've
talked about this a little bit, but I
think the alternative industry is
undergoing a huge amount of having to
grow up right now. I think in the past
you had a period of low interest rates.
People were underallocated to
alternatives and managers got in this
very comfortable situation where it was
easy to generate strong returns because
money was free essentially and there was
a very strong demand for their product
to fill these allocation buckets. So the
narrative was we're in market with a
fund. Thank you for the money. We'll see
you when we're in market with the next
one. The work that had to go into that,
the client engagement was very much in
the hands of the manager. We have to do
as little work as possible and we get to
consistently get these allocations. Oh,
what? We raised a $2 billion fund, the
next one's four, the next one's eight,
the next [music] one's 10. Well, things
have changed.
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
[music] show, we say goodbye to tired
market takes and superficial sound
bites. Because here, instead of skimming
the surface, we dive [music] into the
heart of capital allocation, striking
the perfect balance and exposing the
subtleties that reveal the topic's true
essence. Prepare to have your
perspectives [music] challenged as we
open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. [music]
We've enlisted the wisdom of visionary
leaders in the industry. And just like a
meticulously crafted wine, we'll [music]
allow their insights to breathe,
unfurling their hidden depths and
transforming our understanding. [music]
This is season 3, episode [music] 3, TPA
2.0, implications for the broader
ecosystem. I'm John Bowman.
>> And I'm Aaron Philbeck.
>> And we are your hosts. Well, for the
third year in a row, our title sponsor
is once again our friends over at
Alternatives by Franklin Templeton. They
of course have been a constant if you've
been a longtime listener in supporting
Kaya's efforts to bring compelling
educational content to life with over 40
years of alt investing and over 260
billion of aum. Franklin Templeton's
specialist investment managers have
expertise across six different asset
classes, real estate, private equity,
private credit, hedge strategies,
venture capital, and digital assets. And
of course, all of them operate with the
client first mentality that has always
defined Franklin Templeton to help
prioritize investment outcomes. So,
thanks as always, Alternatives by
Franklin Templeton. Well, Malcolm
Gladwell might be a name that many of
you recognize. He is, of course, the
Canadian best-selling author who wrote
in probably his most famous book that
the tipping point is the moment of
critical mass, the threshold, the
boiling point. It's when an idea, a
trend, or a social behavior spreads
rapidly, like a social epidemic, he
said. Well, total portfolio approach is
nearly 25 years old. By the way, that's
about the same vintage of Kai
Association. And yet, like any movement
or new platform, it has been a very slow
start. But that all seems to be changing
in the last year or two. So, I think the
question we want to ask today in part
is, has it arrived at its own tipping
point? And we'd like to think that Kai
Association and maybe certainly our good
friends over at the Thinking Head
Institute have played a small role in
this acceleration, perhaps even serving
as one of the important actors in
Gladwell's tipping point rubric. He
calls them mavens. Mavens, he describes,
are specialists who are experts at
gathering and sharing knowledge. And
they are driven by a desire to educate
others and act as trusted quote datab
banks that provide the crucial
information for a social epidemic to
spread. So, I don't know. Sounds a bit
like the role we played a little bit,
Aaron, but we'll let the audience decide
for themselves. But certainly, I think
we can all agree that the fever pitch in
the media, at conferences, and in the
boardrooms of big asset owners, as we'll
talk about in short order, has escalated
very quickly. The pace of change has
been really hard to follow to keep up
with, and the adoption curve has
accelerated exponentially in recent
months. So, we therefore felt it was
important to revisit this important
topic at what we think is probably a
monumental inflection point we're going
to look back on in TPA's life cycle. So
this is TPA 2.0, a redux here at Capital
Decanted. You may want to listen to our
first episode on TPA in season 1 as a
starting point if you would like to
pursue this chronologically. So here's
what we'd like to do today. We'll start
by providing an updated adoption curve
history. We did a bit of this in our
first one, so I won't replay everything,
but with some brevity and perhaps a
different lens on the history, I'd like
to try to bring some foundational
context to the recent news flow. And I'm
going to start briefly with the original
pioneers, the original founders over 20
years ago through some of the other
early adopters and to today's modern
influencers. And of course, culminating
with what we think is TPA's tipping
point, the Kalper's recent formal
adoption. But even leading up to this
Sacramento, California moment, we'd like
to unpack and examine why we've seen
such a step function change in
popularity and experimentation at this
moment in time and how today's very
unique, perhaps even foreign to most of
us capital market environment might have
contributed a bit to that. We'll then
spend some time reviewing what Kaia's
second thought leadership paper in two
years on the subject taught us about
those that are on the TPA journey and
how that might provide some advice,
perhaps some caution for those
considering or beginning their own
adventure on the subject. We believe
with the help of the global asset owner
community that this second paper is what
you might call filled in some gaps, some
between the lines wisdom that were left
unanswered in that first report. And I
think it's worthy of our time and
attention. Third, we're going to
confront some rising circumspective
challenges to TBA. Very natural at this
point in the cycle that have become
common mantras, perhaps some lightning
rod topics. And then finally, we'll
finish by addressing the topic that we
think has been most avoided in the
entire TPA debate, and that is the
implications for the GP, which we
believe are as profound as the LP or the
asset owner themselves. As
counterintuitive as that might sound, I
think it has been overlooked. And then
of course we're going to be joined along
the way. You're going to hear plenty of
sound bites from a number of experts and
TPA leaders on this particular topic
including Charles Hyde of New Zealand
Super, Jeff Rubin of CPP, James Clark of
Blue and Jean Podcomer of Capital Group.
So that is our blueprint. So Aaron just
quickly turning to you. You've been on
this journey from the very beginning
here at Kaya, have been perhaps one of
the deepest researchers amongst our
staff. I'd love to hear the biggest
misconception that maybe you once
believed early in your own study of the
topic that now you're much more lasered
about, you might say, as you've been
sitting upon this and talking with more
folks for a period of time. So we've
been on this journey here at Kaia
certainly as we've done a lot of
research but I think one of the things
that I've benefited from especially on
the second paper that we've just
released is the interaction that we've
had. This has been a very conversational
18 to 24 months around this topic. And I
won't spoil my segment of today's
episode but I think what is interesting
to me is that the first time we
introduced the four dimensions of TPA we
laid them out and it was presented
almost equally in a lot of ways. There's
some culture, there's some governance,
there's some portfolio implications and
the technical side of managing the
portfolio and all of that is
interesting. But what I think I've
learned since releasing that piece and
conversations we've had with different
asset owners around the table on this
journey is that it really is more of the
soft stuff that is one most challenging
but also what unlocks a lot of these
asset owners to move towards TPA. So,
I'll leave it there, but that maybe is a
bit of a preview for later on. But my
biggest takeaway,
>> yeah, I think that's well said. I think
ultimately I've learned that this is at
its roots a human endeavor and that's so
different and perhaps unnatural to the
way we're often wired in this industry.
So, we'll talk a lot more about that,
but I do think it sometimes inhibits our
ability to grasp really what TPA is. So
again, we'll come back to much of that a
little bit later, but as I said, let me
take a different approach on TPA history
than I've done in the past, and I hope
this is a fresh look at the same 20
years leading up to this Kalpers moment.
So, as with most new platforms, TPA has
followed an S-curve cycle. Now, S-curves
are typically historical constructs, the
shape of them that helps us understand
the rise of disruptive new social phases
like fashion trends for example or
political movements or new tech
innovations. But just as with the
tipping point science I begun with, I
think the adoption psychology has
something to teach us about TPA as well.
And it's an interesting lens as I said
earlier in which to view the last
several years in particular of this TPA
adoption. So let's think together about
what an S-curve is and how it shapes. So
at first the innovation or whatever
product or movement you're talking
about. It starts out on the fringes, a
few distant narratives perhaps.
Sometimes they feel as if these
narratives are orbiting around real
life. They are out there. They're the
other guys. It was interesting. And I
thought back to our blockchain episode
of season 1 and Chris Dixon of A16Z
described this stage of the cycle as
toys without a lot of commercial appeal.
Most people write this early stage
proofs of concept off as novelty. So
adoption is slow as these fundamental
concepts are being figured out. Again,
they're proofs of concept at best. They
are models. They are solidifying in the
minds and the hearts of individuals.
They're studied perhaps at arms length
only. and examples are still what I
would say are caricatured instead of
emulated at this point.
>> So John, before you go on, I thought
your conversation with James on how this
crossed his radar really helped
illustrate how the interest in TPA has
both waxed and waned over the past few
decades and it's been mostly market
driven as volatility's picked up and
equity markets have drawn down at least
from his perspective. So let's listen in
on what he said here.
I started off pretty much in the long
only world in long only equity and fixed
income. And you know what's really
interesting when you actually take a
step back to look at asset allocations.
When I first started doing this, it was
all around the 6040 model. 60% equities,
40% bonds. And then pretty much on the
very early stages of my career, you had
the tech wreck of April 14, 2000, I
believe it was, and equity markets over
20201 and 2002. The S&P was negative the
entire time. So all of a sudden, you had
these very large institutional investors
that were shackled to very poor returns
from 60% of their portfolio. So the
nomenclature of alternatives started to
make its way in. I mean, this is an
astounding fact. If you actually looked
at the S&P 500 over the last h 100red
years, the annualized return is 10%. If
you asked how many times in a calendar
year did it fall between 8 and 12%, so
you'd be shocked. I'm not going to put
you on the spot here. It's six. So that
shows the volatility of it. And what
they were looking for was a more
consistent way to hit their actual rates
of return. Obviously, the funding ratios
had been crippled by these. you'd had
some spectacular corporate scandals and
failures predominantly Enron and
Worldcom. So it moved to alternatives
and I think that the TPA discussion
started to make its way when you saw all
these sovereign wealth funds of
significant scale start to pop up in the
mid part of the 2000. There was
obviously the Australia's future fund
and there was a number of other Middle
Eastern institutions that grew up and I
think that what happened was everybody
just felt like a little bit constrained
around strategic asset allocation. They
felt that they had to operate within
these bands and you have a situation
where you have what's called the
denominator effect right now which is
where equities sell off and now all of a
sudden through no rebalancing you're
overallocated to private markets and you
can't put any more capital to work until
you rebalance in the public equity
space. So the TPA approach has been
really to demystify
asset class buckets and think about
things more holistically at the total
portfolio level. [music]
Yeah, I think James illustrates the
reason why this was not only so
intriguing back then but even more so
today. And I also love how Jean in
addition to James framed and looked at
this. So when we talked to Gan about why
he had thought this was garnering so
much interest, I would say he both
called and then raised what James said
to an even bolder level on the
limitations of SAA in a market like
today. So let's listen into him here.
When I think through strategic asset
allocation and I have a lot of thoughts
on SAA, most of them are orthodox but
not all of them. When I think about the
evolution of SAA over the last, let's
say, 70 years, what I've observed is a
real oversp specification in the way
that portfolios are put together and in
potentially what constitutes an asset
class or what people think an asset
class is. And as you get to this point
where you have so many different slivers
of the pie chart and SAA and you have
these overly specified highly highly
correlated pieces of the portfolio some
point you take a step back and you ask
yourself what's the common thread across
these what is the common factor exposure
and there's a pretty short gap small gap
from that mindset to wait a second there
is a more holistic way to think about
the entire portfolio once I've got this
understanding and these tools and I can
see some of the friction that is being
provided by today's more traditional SAA
framework.
[music] So John, as I think we've
discussed already, a lot of the adoption
is driven by the need for flexibility
while also being more dynamic in a
market that doesn't sit still. I think
now is a good time to go back to our
history lesson. So, in our first TPA
episode back in season 1, we relive the
early years of these pioneers in the
early 2000s, starting with New Zealand
Super, personified more deeply with the
birth of Future Fund a couple years
later, and then ramping up, of course,
with CPP and GIC. And these were our
four that we previewed in the first
paper. WTW, we also said, had a huge
influence at the time on what you might
call TPA genetics that would eventually
flow through all of these founders. So
when Kaya first began researching,
writing about talking to other asset
owners, as Aaron just mentioned, outside
of these four several years ago, our
conversations with these other partners
that we were talking to, they would tell
us that they largely viewed these four
TPA wiring as unique to them. Well,
that's fine for them. It works for them.
It's suited for mega sovereign pools of
capital only, given, of course, they
have the luxury of a very hands-off
governance structure and a time horizon
that was effectively perpetual. So while
most found these early role models
fascinating, intriguing and the
alternative approach was actually I
think attractive, we were admittedly ka
that is manufacturing interest. I would
say at that time back then I don't know
about you Aaron but I would often hear
refrains like well this would never work
with my board or we could never
implement this at my five person
endowment or even a little bit more
snarky that's easy for them to say when
you got hundreds of billions of AUM of
course they can adopt TPA and so to some
extent it appeared that they were
correct for a while these naysayers
almost 20 years after Kiwi Super and the
future fund birthed this new model These
four were largely still the only games
in town around the COVID period. And
really, this shouldn't be a surprise. I
mean, if we're honest, what TPA was
doing was challenging decades of
investment orthodoxy. As we'll talk
about later, it was not just a tuneup or
a little bit of polish around the edges.
This was a fundamental rethinking of how
institutional capital should be
allocated, how it should be governed,
how it should be measured. And so all of
our industry assumptions about portfolio
construction were in the dock as my
English friends would say. SAA was being
cross-examined and it was uncomfortable
and perhaps even a little offensive to
some. Again, that is very common in the
early stages of the S-curve. So, as with
all new platform adoptions, it appears
to stagnate for a while. The early stage
stays early and stays small for what
feels like a disproportionately long
time. And if you're watching closely,
similar to that cardinal rule of never
staring at the time on your treadmill or
the elliptical, it appears that nothing
ever changes and progress is just
crawling along. So, nonetheless, our
first seminal paper, Innovation
Unleashed, in early 2024, attempted to
give these courageous four prototypes a
megaphone, a PR agent, maybe you might
call it an authoritative historical text
that told their stories in depth. that
described their thought processes in the
early stages allowed us to experience
live variously through the ascent of
their own TPA worldview and the specific
flavor that had matured at each of these
funds and then using the common threads
amongst the four of them even though of
course they had variations and
customized alterations. We attempted to
describe the common dimensions that
define what TPA actually was and how it
was a departure from SAA. And those were
number one, a unique kind of governance,
number two, the competition for capital,
number three, a factor lens on portfolio
construction, and four a unified one
fund culture. That was the first paper.
Well, around that same time, the S-curve
eventually began to get sie to get
curvy. The S-curve began to do its
S-curve thing. And just as history
teaches us, those small sparks, the
original toys and novelty in Dixon's
language, slowly surely they begin to
move from this smoldering ash to a small
flame. So through the 2010s up into the
COVID period and largely, let's give
credit where credit's due to Thinking
Ahead Institute's leadership and
consulting and convening power, several
asset owners quietly but deliberately
begun their own TPA transition. Rail Pen
and USS in the UK, QIC and TCOP in
Australia, OP Trust, Hoop USS in Canada,
and ATP in Denmark. And even KIC and
MPS, the stereotypically quiet and
conservative big funds in Korea made
very public statements initiating their
own moves towards TPA under new
leadership. So these metamorphoses, they
were far from overnight, far from
radical. In fact, even today, all these
examples exist on a continuum from what
you might call enlightened or enhanced
SAA to TPA light. But they all have made
material steps nonetheless up that
curve. And in the US, while there were
no big announcements, no wholesale
adoptions, there were moves as well by
Molly Murphy over at OSERS, Jonathan
Greyel at Lera, Edwin Densson at SWIB,
and some others to upgrade and broaden
their own portfolio construction tool
set. some of their risk management
systems and dashboards, compensation
structures, team decision-making that
you could say begun to look, taste, and
smell a little bit more like TPA. Pseudo
reference portfolios began to be used
even if they were still run alongside of
the traditional SAA policy portfolio.
And some CIOS were aggregating their
portfolios into fewer super categories
that were grouped more by the purpose
for the fund. So think growth or income
or capital preservation for example
rather than the hyperfragmentation of
most SAA asset class structures. And we
even begun to see new titles, job
descriptions appear, chief of total
portfolio management, head of total fund
management, for example. And all of this
was aimed at moving the industry
apparatus to more of a holistic
portfolio focus with the idea to better
align governance, accountability, and
culture. And even we at Kaya experienced
a bit of the slow build as well. So when
the smoke started igniting after this
first paper, we begun to be invited to
speak on bigger public stages as well to
partner with CIOS and educating their
own boards. We were asked to join
pension trustee gatherings and asset
owner executive retreats. At our chapter
events, I think it's fair to say around
the world, it gradually, not overnight,
but gradually became one of the more
popular topics that was requested for
these events. And these were not all
home runs. They ebbed and flowed like a
good S-curve. But despite those hit and
misses directionally, things were
beginning to change and accelerate. So,
rhyming with Gladwell's tipping point
language that we begun with during the
intro, Ernest Hemingway, and I had to
look this up, Aaron. I didn't know where
this came from, but in his novel, The
Sun Also Rises, it was Hemingway that
memorialized the adage of slowly and
then all at once, which of course the VC
industry has co-opted and adopted as
their own. When you think about tech
platforms, Bill Gates of course famously
said, "Most people overestimate what
they can achieve in a year and
underestimate what they can achieve in
10 years." So the Scurve limps along and
then seemingly you wake up one day and
it's exploded as you turn up the curve.
So at the time of this recording, TPA
has just had in our view that big bang,
its tipping point, its arrival at
critical mass in Gladwell's language. So
on November 17th, 2025, Calpers, the
largest pension and largest asset owner
for that matter in the United States
under the leadership, not ironically and
not coincidentally at all of CIO Steven
Gilmore. He of course is the former CIO
of New Zealand Super, one of the
aformentioned pioneers of TPA. Kalpers
became the first US public pension plan
to formally adopt TPA. They have
effectively collapsed 11 asset classes
into one overall pool. Adopted a 7525
equity fixed reference portfolio that's
a little bit lower than CPP and New
Zealand super, but nonetheless they've
got a reference portfolio of 7525 as a
single primary point of reference rather
than a poperri of asset class specific
benchmarks. I would say this is a huge
deal that I will suspect will add a key
social proof that you might say will
further grease the skids of this scurve
and the adoption acceleration. So Aaron,
I'd like to pause here. Do you think the
significance of this Kalper's news is as
big as I do and how would you frame this
in the overall history? I think this is
a big deal and maybe just to sum it up
all it takes is one in order for this to
move forward and as you mentioned some
of these asset owners in the US have
been experimenting and been along this
journey but this is the moment that
we've had a full governance shift at the
asset owner level and the US in
particular has this very strong
governance structure a lot of approval
processes it's probably the most
developed that we see in the US which
has its benefits but it also has its
drawbacks when it comes comes to making
changes. So, a lot of these early
adopters that you mentioned earlier on
the scurve have either started with a
TPA mindset or it's been much easier for
them to kind of make that shift because
they don't have so much legacy processes
and procedures in place. So for someone
like Steven to be able to come in and
there's obviously been a lot of
experimentation leading up to this
moment, but for the formal approval at
the governance level to move towards
this TPA concept and again the tangible
elements of this of collapsing 11 asset
classes into two in a reference
portfolio and broadening out the active
risk budget for the fund. All of this I
think will open the doors for others who
are in that experimentation phase to
potentially move towards this direction
as well.
>> I think that's a good point. New Zealand
Super Future Fund we've talked about as
being born that way and that's not to
take anything away from them but they
started with the framework of TPA. CPP
had this wiring of the Canadian model
that I think again not to take anything
away from them made it slightly easier
and culturally more digestible to move
that way. I think GIC is the one that
fits the more massive transition
challenge that Kalpers does. So, we will
watch this. But I do agree that I think
this is huge, huge news that again will
be a iconic moment on the lineage and
any of those time period visuals that
are put on the wall. If TPA ever has
one, I think you'll see a line an
important icon for November of 2025.
>> And John, you did miss an opportunity.
So, you've quoted Hemingway and Malcolm
Gladwell, but with an S-curve, the
Beatles, the long and winding road, I
think is also very appropriate for this.
Yes, that is good. Leave it to the music
guru to help me out on that one. Good
one. So, I think as I said, I think the
history can be interesting, but before
we get lost in this ticker tape parade
on the Kalpers news, I do think it's
helpful to pause, perhaps even back up a
little bit, reflect on why this has
accelerated so quickly. Why from a few
years ago I mentioned earlier that we
felt like we were manufacturing interest
that it was just a few. When I tell the
story of that original conversation in
the Starbucks at the bottom of GIC and
my shock when basically the head of
asset allocation says in answer to my
question of who else is doing this, it's
three others. It's just a handful of us.
How did we go from there to here? We've
seen this couple shifts upward in
velocity that took us to the precipice
of this tipping point in very short
order. Well, I want to start with
offering two main explanations. And I
really would love your feedback, your
editorializing, your disagreement here
too, Aaron on the why of all of this.
The first and perhaps most important, I
think, and I'm going to use some fairly
dramatic hyperbolic arguably language
here, is this new global order, the
regime change, as is often talked about
from stages and papers that we find
ourselves in. To put it simply, many
CIOS I talk to around the world are
concerned that their existing playbooks
are simply no longer fit for purpose. We
have structurally higher interest rates.
We have a return to maybe what you would
call more normal historical inflation
levels. The lazy fair philosophy of
Reagan and Thatcher beginning in the
early 80s. Things like free trade and
globalization seems to be reversing.
Volatility is much higher. We've got
this binary supply chain and tech stacks
occurring and emerging in everything
from semiconductors to AI to social
media between east and west. And of
course, we have much more geopolitical
instability and probably the most
delicacy around the world with allies
and others and blocks than we've seen
since the cold war. So the world and the
set of economic assumptions that most
professionals in our industry have grown
up in, been taught about, invested in,
and experience seems to be unraveling
very quickly. So, doesn't it follow that
we should at least consider whether we
need to think differently about
designing investment portfolios that can
deliver investment outcomes in this new
normal rather than in the past. We need
a new institutional framework that
perhaps is more optimized towards
uncertainty versus the academic
processes of old that are optimized to
stability. So, there is this growing
consensus that we are sorely in need of
a new mousetrap. That I think is the
first and the biggest one. Second,
however, is that not only does TPA offer
the dynamism and the coordination that
may be a better antidote to this chaotic
world, but we've also began to see some
evidence that it could be a better
performance option. So, I think those
that study the underlying tenants of TPA
inherently grasp that on paper it does
seem like an upgrade because at its very
essence, you're liberating the portfolio
from arbitrary constraints. you're
removing the shackles of what you might
call bucket limits, providing much more
flexibility to chase the most attractive
risk return unit for each marginal
dollar. So again, makes sense that at
least it should in theory produce better
returns. Marcy Frost, Kalper CEO, said
it really well in their release at the
time of this recording. This is just
last week announcing the positive board
vote. She said, quote, "This is an
evolution in our investment
decision-making approach at Kalpers, and
I commend the board for taking such a
bold step. TPA encourages greater
collaboration among the investment team
so that their collective wisdom is
harnessed to judge investments based on
their potential to benefit the entire
portfolio. End quote. So I think it's a
very good summary of the advantage again
at least in theory for TPA. So it seems
to be TPA that is optimizing fiduciary
capability in the way SAA can't quite
compete with in its purest form. I had
this vivid memory in my preparation.
Aaron when I was at CFA Institute and we
were in a planning discussion with what
was called the global gipss council the
global investment performance standards
council. So these were advisors that
were helping us move and champion the
gip standards across the world. So our
intent our publicly stated goal at CFA
was to have gips officially adopted at
the largest 25 asset managers in the
world. And one of our approaches which I
think was very sound was to use CIOS of
major asset owners to provide a bit of
pressure moral persuasion on their GPS.
And I recall there was this moment in
this meeting where we suggested one
tactic is that they use GIP's compliance
as a filtering mechanism for their
manager due diligence. And I remember
very clearly as I said this CIO of one
of the largest public pensions in the
US. Now remember he sits on the Gibbs
council. So he's a huge proponent of the
standards and the spirit of what it's
trying to accomplish, but he responded
very directly and he said that to do
that would violate his fiduciary duty
and inhibit returns because we were
forcing him to limit his investment
universe. And I think that often in the
context of this competition for capital
and TPA, I think that rings true a
little bit where by definition an SAA
model has upper limits on asset class
ranges and it will therefore at times
crowd out it has to the best new ideas
at least from time to time. So, as that
CIO rightly pushed back many years ago,
does SAA at its core restrain the purist
at least purest of fiduciary investment
management because of this rule-based
structure? And I just throw that out
there as food for thought as a
corollary. So again, I think the
underlying theory aligns with our
instincts. But beyond that, as I said,
we're beginning to see some social proof
of this being demonstrated
quantitatively in practice. So two
performance studies or data points that
are admittedly not perfect but they
begin to validate this. So number one
when we released our first paper a
couple years ago we looked at the first
four movers again New Zealand super
future fund CPP GIC compared their
annual performance over the previous 10
years against and the control group was
the US Nubo endowment universe which of
course many around the world not just in
the US will commonly refer to university
endowments as the smart money. They
typically are those that are most
flexible, most sophisticated, have the
ability to follow their idiosyncratic
opportunities and instincts without any
constraints often. And what we found
with that comparison was a 140 basis
points of annualized outperformance 1.4%
for the four TPA shops versus the
average US university endowment. So
that's one data point. Admittedly,
that's a small group, but that's the
first four. Second, and this was
actually the data set that Kalpers used
last week as part of their pitch to
adopt TPA to their board. Our friends
over at Thinking Ahead Institute did a
similar study, but they surveyed a group
of 26 large funds. And those within that
group that were using TPA outperformed
their SAA brethren by 130 basis points,
1.3%, very similar outperformance or
alpha, you might say, for the same
10-year period. So, we're starting to
see a pattern develop there. Whether
that's precise, I would not argue. But I
have no delusions that these studies are
complete, that they are determinate,
that they are statistically precise, or
even that this outperformance, if it
does exist, will persist. All I'm
expressing is that we're starting to see
some signs of data that echo these
qualitative expectations. So, I think
that's interesting. Aaron, further
explanations, disagreements, or other
reasons that I've missed here for this
rise of adoption in TPA? No, I think
maybe just to underscore a couple
things. One is I love that example on
performance measurement as an example of
restricting your universe and therefore
maybe violating your fiduciary duty. The
shift towards TPA introduces flexibility
where SAA doesn't allow for that
flexibility. But that doesn't mean that
the rigor doesn't go away either. So you
can see that in the performance numbers
and even some of the interviews that
we've had over the past year or so with
these different asset owners. very very
sophisticated ways of managing
portfolios. The level of granularity of
the data that they have available, there
is still a high level of rigor and
analysis and process that goes into all
of this. What is different about it
though is that flexibility to respond to
those market conditions and be able to
be much more targeted in terms of
sectors or themes or macro environments
where an SAA type of framework wouldn't
necessarily allow for it in the same
way. And the example and this will be a
bit of a preview on the portfolio
implication is SAA requires you to own
asset classes. So in the Kalpers's case,
you had 11 asset classes that if you
didn't own one of those 11, you were
making an active bet. And it might be
the right bet, but you've got this
mental weight that you don't own it. And
you've got to explain it to your board
and you're measured against all of that.
But in a TPA framework, you don't have
to own it if it's not the best idea for
the portfolio or there's a theme that
doesn't make sense. So, it's harder in
some ways in terms of the process of
managing because you still have to have
that level of rigor, but it's almost
easier and more liberating because
you're allowed to be much more flexible
and managing towards those goals.
>> Erin, I think that's a really important
point and it actually reminded me of the
conversation that you had with Charles
about how liberating that reference
portfolio can be. So certainly it serves
as a strong governance tool of
separating responsibilities but I think
of much more importance it enables the
investment team to invest with a lot
more flexibility. So let's listen to
Charles here. [music]
So we set out on our journey way back in
2010 [music] when we adopted a reference
portfolio and that was really for us I
think the most important catalyst
towards adopting a total portfolio
approach and indeed in many ways the
foundation of it. So we adopted a
reference portfolio and at that time the
board agreed that it made sense for the
board to focus going forward on
governance and for management to take
ownership of the investing. And that
might sound simple and obvious but a lot
of places don't have that clarity of
division of labor if you like between
governance and management. And that
great clarity that we have and that was
put in place at that time that we
adopted the reference portfolio which is
a governance mechanism has really been
the foundation of our total portfolio
approach. It gave great clarity to us as
to who owns what but it also importantly
gave management the flexibility to take
an approach to building a portfolio and
managing it that is different from what
you would typically see out there under
that rubric of the SAA approach. It
allowed us to be more dynamic in terms
of the way that we managed the
portfolio. We didn't have to engage with
the board with every investment decision
along the way. And it also freed us from
some of the constraints of the SAA
approach. So we weren't tied to using
the classical standard asset class
definitions that you would see in an
SAA. And it also allowed us to get away
from that idea of having a fixed cycle
of asset allocation reviews every year
or 2 years or whatever it is. It allowed
us to return to the allocations on a
much more frequent basis. So that was
the beginning of our total portfolio
journey. But that was as I said 15 years
ago. Certainly by no means the end of
our journey. It's been very much a work
in progress over a long period of time.
There have been some meaningful changes
to the way that we've done things since
then. We adopted a risk budgeting
approach in 2014 or so which was a big
step forward. So going back to that
split between governance and management,
our board retained two key investment
decisions. One is the structure of the
reference portfolio. what combination of
asset classes should we have in that and
the sizing of our active risk budget
that management has to use to build a
better portfolio. So we've done a lot of
things along the way to enhance
collaboration and maximize if you like
the efficiency with which we share
information within the fund and more
generally trying to build a culture that
underpins that need to have strong
collaboration across the teams within
the fund.
So I think Charles really illustrates a
lot of what Steven is trying to bring at
Kalpers which makes sense given he was
at NZ during the later years of this
adoption curve. The other thing I find
interesting about both Charles and what
Steven is doing is the work isn't done.
Charles mentioned that reference
portfolio is just the start and I
imagine the current market environment
has Steven feeling the same way.
>> Yeah, I think this new regime you could
argue has pulled some history forward a
bit in the adoption curve. steepened
that portion of the S to use my
framework from earlier. Sometimes
conditions just as with a good VC
investment, you can have a great
founder, you can have a great product
market fit, but you need the market
conditions to cooperate and be the right
timing for the perfect storm of
opportunity and stars aligning to
happen. So I think that is maybe a
summary of what I was trying to
articulate through all those things
coming together the last 3 to four
years. So, I walked you through this
adoption history, Aaron, and I want to
set you up to talk a bit about our
second paper on TPA itself. This was a
portion of the adventure story that I
didn't want to interrupt with a
commercial break. I wanted to get
through the history first, but I do want
to just take a quick step back to talk
about that 2.0 know chapter in Kaia's
case specifically because I think it's a
progression in our own understanding
which is why I started with that very
first question to you on misconception
that maybe we've resolved or progressed
in our own minds. So I want to double
down on this for the benefit of the
profession for the benefit of the
listeners here cuz I think we certainly
learned a lot through it. I'm going to
let you bring to life the specific
outcomes and messages that we learned.
But I wanted to just quickly sharpen the
context a bit that led up to this
revelation that we even needed to do a
second paper. So, as I already alluded
to, after that original thought
leadership, we road showed the concept
and described what we learned and often
with the help of our new friends at
those four participating funds, held
lots of events, had lots of discussions,
and they were, I think, as thrilled as
we were to finally have a voice, an
authoritative cannon, as I said earlier,
to point other interested parties, too,
as a starting point for their own
experience. But the more we talked and
engaged about this around the world, I
think it's fair to say, the more
questions arose. And honestly, these
were questions that we didn't quite have
the answer to and they challenged us.
So, we heard things like, "Well, how do
I start? Where should I even begin with
all of this? I'm blocked in on SAA." So,
this is really daunting to know. It's
like writer's block for the author.
What's the first sentence of that first
chapter? Second, what are typical
mistakes or pitfalls or challenges that
I will encounter and perhaps that I can
avoid? Can you help me with that? Third,
how do I convince my board it would be
advantageous to frankly relinquish some
control? That is counterintuitive. That
is against human nature. And fourth,
what type of resistance should I expect?
What should I prepare for in addressing
my own investment teams? What has been
your experience in the trenches on
building or rebuilding or rewiring the
entire culture around TPA? So about 6
months into this road show, it became
clear that while the first paper
properly described what TPA was, how it
differed from SAA, there was this
growing appetite for us to go deeper, to
get more granular. So the blockbuster
sequel was in demand. Now I just paused
there. By the way, sequels are rarely
good, Aaron. So you had a difficult
task. I was at Wicked for Good's opening
night on Friday. Sequels are rarely as
good as their first. Can you think of
great sequels that come to mind
>> besides Empire Strikes Back? That's a
tall order.
>> That was on my list, too. I think Top
Gun.
>> Good one.
>> 40 Years Later actually did a pretty
good job. But he had 40 years to prepare
for that sequel. So perhaps certainly an
exception versus the rule. But in this
case, despite our fear that sequels are
bound to fail, in this case, CIOS were
hungry for this practical guide with
real stories, real case studies from the
trenches. As I said, that provided
unfiltered perspectives, not just
theory. So to do that, we knew we needed
to widen our aperture a bit from those
first four. And so this time we
interviewed 12 asset owners from around
the globe about their own TPA journeys
and asked them what worked, what failed,
and why. So these implementation
narratives were not sterile best
practices, but real raw human stories.
So by definition, each of these
experiences was different. Aaron, but
talk us through how you pulled this all
together and extracted a couple common
themes and lessons that we can take away
from this mosaic of interactions you had
with these 12.
>> Absolutely. And it's funny, I mean, as
we've been doing these events and the
more public facing conversations with
different asset owners, some, as you
said, John, have gone really, really
well. And we've had a lot of engagement
and questions. There were also some
controversial ones. And I remember
distinctly about a year ago I walked out
and this is where I texted you and one
of our colleagues to say I think we need
to write something on this cuz I'm
having trouble answering a couple of
these questions but there are some
non-believers in the crowd and continue
to be some non-believers in the crowd
and I think that's okay because this is
not a prescriptive model by any means
that is similar to like the endowment
model or an SAA model. These are more
experiences more than anything and so
everyone does it a little bit
differently. So my job and I think our
collective job on the SQL was to try to
take all 12 of these different asset
owners who have very different
constituents, beneficiaries, investment
teams, areas of competencies and boil it
down to a couple of things that are
actionable for the broader industry. So
I would encourage everyone who's
listening to read the full paper. We
have a ton of examples as we walk
through different implications for your
portfolio and how you think about
governance and all of those things. So,
I won't get into that specifically, but
the big three takeaways from this paper,
and I alluded to this earlier on in the
episode was first and foremost that it's
the soft stuff, and that's governance
and culture, the two of the four pillars
from the first paper that are the most
important, I think, than anything else.
And it's figuring out who's accountable
for what, who actually ultimately has
decision-making authority in terms of
how you build the portfolio, how you
manage around the portfolio. And then
once you get that decision-making rights
conversation established, it's bleeding
that through to your culture in the
organization and how do you create
incentives? How do you structure teams?
How do you enable collaboration amongst
your different investment staff so that
they're not only focused on their area
of specialty which is important that
specialization is important and that was
a question that we got was what do I do
with all my specialists? My private
equity person is not going to easily be
able to move over to hedge funds or
public equity for that matter. And the
answer that we found was that you still
need those people. You just need them to
talk to everyone else in the team. So
that is collaboration. It's also
incentives. Making sure people are
driven towards achieving a overall
portfolio return type of profile rather
than just focusing on their individual
silo. The second one, which is what John
just walked through on this S-curve, is
that with a few exceptions, almost every
single organization that adopts TPA or
is closer to TPA did this slowly. It was
a journey that they went on. And that
journey was really, really important for
a couple of reasons. One, because it's
just tough conversations, governance and
culture and reorienting your staff, but
also because there's a lot of
experimentation that's involved in
moving towards TPA. And a lot of these
organizations would try something and
maybe it worked, maybe it didn't, and
they go back and try something new. And
you can only do that if you go through
more of a incremental type of journey
with a longer term goal in mind, but
still a journey instead of an overnight
shift. And then the third thing is the
portfolio. And I'm going to talk mostly
about this because I think that's
interesting to the investment nerds. But
the portfolio was really a byproduct of
the first two. how you organize
governance, how you think about culture,
the journey that you take on these
allocations shifted over time. Again, it
wasn't an overnight shift. The only
thing I'll say on the portfolio side
which we'll cover here is that while it
is a byproduct, it's actually where a
lot of the experimentation starts. So,
it's almost a circular conversation
around portfolio. You may be in an SAA
type of framework and then your CIO is
going off to the side and saying, "What
if we tweak this or what if we introduce
this new strategy into the portfolio?"
And so you kind of do that for a little
bit. You focus on your systems and your
data. You start to figure out how do you
collaborate? How do you get more
isolated exposures, but it isn't until
you get that first pillar correct, until
you've opened the floodgates for a more
TPA type of philosophy. So, I just think
that's really interesting as we walk
away from all of this because as
investment professionals, we gravitate
towards the portfolio. And again, a lot
of the questions were around the
portfolio side of the equation, which is
important. It's obviously what you're
investing in, but it's all the other
stuff that is the enabler of you being
able to ultimately shift the portfolio
at the end of the day.
>> So, Aaron, I think that's really well
said. I particularly like this idea of
we've talked a lot. I've often used the
phrase, "A fish doesn't know they're in
water." And I think don't be fooled that
getting out of the water by virtue of a
board vote clears the path for the rest
of your time. I think this circular
redux gravitational pull back to what
you know is enduring. It's always there
and particularly in difficult times of
whether it's board turnover or poor
performance or maybe a bad deal. All
these things are going to pluck on
nerves of the past and you got to stay
very focused on continuing to tell the
story. I think you described that really
well. I mean ultimately when I've
described this newspaper a couple times,
Aaron, I don't know if you've gotten
this, but I will hear things like, well,
wait a second, governance and culture,
those were two of your four the first
one. What's changed? And I think that's
a very good response. But the reality is
that like you said, it's not that they
are held equally, I think, any longer.
What we've learned is that governance
and culture have graduated to first
principles. And I think it's easy to get
caught up in the technical and the
performance comparisons. And I've played
a role in this even in this episode, but
the portfolio implications are clearly
what sometimes draw our attention. But
at the very essence of the adoption of
TPA is fundamentally about behavior and
cultural transformation. navigating
change, overcoming resistance, building
coalitions, aligning purpose with
communication as I just described,
matching incentives with values,
creating momentum. So, John, I think
this is a good time to refer to a
conversation that I had with Jeff. Now,
on the spectrum of SAA versus TPA, I
think many of us would agree that CPP is
on the very far end of that TPA
spectrum, and they're also very
technical and scientific in how they
build portfolios and look through
exposures and factors. But when I asked
him about the important tenants of
successfully integrating and moving
towards TPA, his first answer was
governance. Let's listen to him here.
[music]
>> I know governance it doesn't sound
terribly sexy to talk about the
structures within which we invest, but
it's vitally important for the total
portfolio approach that management, the
investment team has full accountability
for the development and delivery of
investment returns. There is no preset
asset allocation. There's no preset
portfolio fundamental underlying
portfolio composition that is given to
management. Management in a total
portfolio approach really has full
discretion to design a portfolio that
meets the risk expectations of
governance but is otherwise free to
build out that portfolio in ways that
they think is going to best deliver
against the objective that is set by the
governance. Without that governance
piece, the rest of it really isn't going
to hang together. And I don't think that
clarity of governance is necessarily the
province of larger or smaller funds. I
think funds of all size can do it but
it's difficult and there are reasons why
the historical governance is used by
most institutions. There is a clarity of
accountability. We know exactly who is
responsible for the setting of the asset
allocation. Then who is responsible for
beating the benchmarks that are
effectively attached to those
allocations.
[music]
So, isn't it funny that some of us just
want to immediately jump to the
portfolio and the metrics when it's
really the human side that makes all the
difference?
>> Yes, exactly, Aaron. The leftrain
analyst in many of us, I think, simply
want to plug and play. And I think
that's really a danger here is that we
almost view this as we're swapping out a
water heater in our home. And we're
going to be terribly disappointed if
that's the way the frame in which we
think about moving from SAA to TPA
because this change will take a ton of
patience, a ton of vigilance to navigate
what is a messy meandering of humanity
and it starts with the hearts and the
minds. So I think that second paper is
worthy of reading because it gets very
crunchy and human and emotional and gets
into the idea of motivation and
behavior. So I appreciate the summary.
Before we move to this closing segment
on implications for GPS, I want us to
address two nagging questions. Maybe we
could each take one of these that I
think continue to come up as this TPA
S-curve gains steam. So, they're not
always asked in an intellectually honest
tone. As you know, there's often some
snark in some of these, but nonetheless,
whether they come through snark or
intellectual honesty, I do think we
should always be circumspect. And so,
these are in fact good challenges. And
so, those two questions are, is TPA
really all that different? What is the
fuss really about? And second, with all
of this trouble and labor that we keep
describing, hearts, minds, and the
technical process changes. I mean, I
said a moment ago that the messy
meandering of humanity, that's a lot of
work and heartache. Does the process of
building the portfolio and maybe even
more importantly, the outcome of the
portfolio really even change? And if it
doesn't change that much, is this all
really worth it? I think those are fair
questions. So why don't you take the one
on the portfolio and I'll respond with
is this really that different as a build
on your piece.
>> So on the portfolio I would break this
into two groupings. One is the process
and how you actually go about making
decisions which we've talked a little
bit about and then the second is the
actual portfolio itself. And I want to
use a couple of examples that we found
during some of these different
interviews. So if I think about the
first component of this which is what is
the change to the process the investment
approach within the capital pool there
are some important changes they're all a
little bit separate but I think highly
correlated to one another. So first as
we've talked about these funds move from
a more benchmarkd driven investment
strategy to a total fund mandate which
then leads to the second part which is
asset class strategies being disrupted
in favor of more enterprise capital
allocations. And then third is that this
is all measured differently. So moving
away from policy portfolios like the
Kalpers case of 11 asset classes and a
prescriptive benchmark to more reference
portfolio. So, I want to take each of
these in turn. By the way, there is a
great piece in the FT that came out I
think last week at the time of this
recording that goes really in depth in
terms of trying to decompose some of
this and get into some of those
allocations. So, we'll link that in the
show notes, but would highly encourage
you all to check these out. But let me
take these a little bit more in depth.
So, first from benchmarks to mandates.
So as we all know under SAA asset
classes have fixed roles and are often
benchmark driven. All of us were trained
this way. Build an investment policy
statement, provide a prescriptive
allocation that acts as guard rails for
the investment team and then lay out
basically all the quote unquote rules
that the investment team can follow. TPA
moves away from that in its simplest
sense. So rather than a rules-based
approach, it shifts to more of a
mandated driven philosophy. And what
this means practically is that the
governing body focuses on the long-term
return targets, maybe some risk
appetite, and that's about it. The
conversation shifts from asset
allocation studies at the board level
and what should we put in this asset
class versus that asset class and then
hand it over to the CIO to manage
against it to conversations around
things like inflation protection or
asset liability management, liquidity
tolerance, draw down risk, and then
other sources of risk like are we
actually going to be able to pay our
beneficiaries at the end of the day. And
that conversation completely shifts you
away from what's going on with the S&P
500 or what's going on with emerging
market indices. So when you actually get
into the management of the fund, this
tends to lead to broader risk bands
instead of narrow asset weightings that
need to be updated frequently by the
governing institution. Performance
measurement that shifts in total fund
terms rather than relative value terms.
And one of my favorite framings here is
that TPA really moves you from an
alpha-driven conversation to more of a
beta driven conversation. And then third
is the decision-making opportunity being
driven by opportunity cost and mission
alignment, which we tend to call
competition for capital instead of
trying to fill up each of those buckets.
So this leads into that second
component, the transition from asset
class silos to enterprise level capital
allocation. And that's where it gets a
little bit trickier in terms of
implementation because it requires many
of these organizations to reorganize
their teams in a way that supports
greater collaboration, cross team
transparency and so on. So TPA
integrates portfolio construction across
teams that were historically siloed. You
had your equity team, you had your real
estate team, fixed income, private
markets. And as I said before, I want to
stress this doesn't remove the need for
those specialists, but they just need to
communicate with one another, which
seems simple in concept, but maybe
difficult in practice. So, we got a lot
of those questions on the road shows
talking around TPA. So, maybe the
headline here is specialists, you're
safe for now, but you do actually need
to have conversations with the rest of
your colleagues. So rather than filling
up those asset classes that are central
to SAA, TPA allocates capital where it's
most efficient regardless of legacy
organizational boundaries or turf wars.
Aaron, I want to go back to Jeff here.
He had some really good examples of how
he's seen these teams interact with one
another. And again, each organization is
slightly different. We have to
understand that. But I do think it's
worth pausing and hearing a few real
examples of what this looks like in
practice.
I think even a loose grouping and
understanding of your assets by their
performance in different environments,
even that can provide the kind of
insight that allows you to think not
about the asset class labels, not about
building a portfolio of asset class
types, but of building a portfolio of
investments or assets that have certain
types of exposure or performance to
different risk environments. That's what
we're talking about here. And it can be
done quite simply. I've seen
institutions that simply group their
equities, both public and private, into
high growth. And they will group their
infrastructure and their fixed income
and maybe some of their real estate into
rate sensitive assets and credit into
assets that are more sensitive to the
credit conditions within the market. So
just some broad categories of asset
performance can be enough to start
sorting through and thinking about your
portfolio not in terms of its asset
allocation but in terms of the balance
of exposures, the balance of performance
that you will get from that portfolio.
That can be done quite simply. It can be
done with teams that are either doing
their own work or using offthe-shelf
risk models that will give you some of
that insight in ways that again doesn't
necessarily have to be a large team but
it has to be a team that's really
thoughtful around not the labels of
asset classes but the underlying
exposure underlying performance of
those. [music]
So from a cultural perspective we
sometimes talk about this and doing this
effectively meaning that everyone on the
team can actually lose capital pretty
well. You may lose capital within your
sleeve, but you're so focused on the
overall fund return that you don't care
because you want what is best for the
portfolio. And that again that comes
down to collaboration, incentives, which
then leads to and the most important
part which is that shift that we saw at
Kalpers which is moving from policy
benchmarks to reference portfolios. A
policy portfolio as we all know is an
expression of the strategic asset
allocation in an investable form and
that's also the benchmark that you're
setting out to beat. So your entire
decision-making process is anchored to
whatever is in that policy portfolio,
whether you care about the overall fund
or not. You can clearly perform
performance attribution, performance
measurement against it. You can break
down the value ad on allocation
decisions and where manager selection
adds value and really get into
describing what drove performance where.
And that's really comfortable for a lot
of the more analytically minded types of
investment professionals. The reference
portfolio throws all of this out. And at
least at the highest level, the
governance level, it throws all of it
out. Reference portfolios are often
simple and are used more as an
expression of risk tolerance than
something to manage against. And I think
that's important. A lot of these
reference portfolios is basically the
board saying, here's a comfortable risk
profile that we're comfortable with. We
may have a absolute return objective
that we need to hit. A lot of them are
more CPI plus types of objectives, but
then you need some parameters around
comfort with different levels of risk.
So this isn't the board saying you have
to manage against this. This is the risk
profile that's being handed to the
investment team. So it's more of a
governance tool, not an investable
portfolio, which means that the fund's
actual performance will typically
deviate on a much wider spectrum
relative to that reference portfolio.
Now, not everyone uses a reference
portfolio, at least not explicitly.
Kalpers is shifting to that at the time
of the vote, moving from 11 asset
classes to a simplified portfolio of
two, but it is a big shift for a lot of
these organizations to move from a
measurable allocation to more of a macro
conversation. So that leads to the
second component of the portfolio, which
is the observable portfolio changes over
time. So when we conducted all of these
interviews, again, all of these
organizations do this differently. some
insource, some outsource, some have
preferences for certain asset classes,
but a few key portfolio trends did
emerge, and I'll highlight four of them,
which the fifth one is the GP
conversation, which we'll save for the
end, so I won't steal John's thunder for
that one, but there's four that I do
want to highlight. First is
directionally a higher allocation to
illquid assets. Not every organization
is heavy here. So keep in mind that
could have been from a lower base. But
by removing some of the benchmark
constraints, it actually opened up the
possibilities for these funds to invest
both through managers and through their
own internal capabilities in private
markets and treating them more as a
strategic part of the portfolio as
opposed to an offbenchmark type of
allocation. So we heard this overall
increase explicitly from a number of
funds like APG, GIC and rail pen.
whereas others mentioned specific
private asset classes that they had
allocated more capital towards. Second
and related was more instances of
non-benchmark assets in the portfolio or
investing in sleeves of broader
strategies. So two examples I'll
highlight here was one fund mentioned
introducing insurance link securities
when they got the opportunity and it
presented itself in an attractive way.
Not typically something you find in a
strategic asset allocation but
contributed to the overall fund. And
then another fund highlighted that they
would sometimes ask managers to create
custom funds with a single solution that
would only invest in a small portion of
their strategy instead of getting the
broad diversified mix. So for example,
if you're trying to play a theme on
healthcare or technology, rather than
accepting the overall strategy, they
might create a single sectorbased
strategy and isolate certain parts of
the fund. So sometimes these
non-benchmark assets were mapped based
on the overall risk profile. One fund
talked about infrastructure not being
part of the normal allocation in the
portfolio and so they're decomposing the
factors of infrastructure and fitting it
in accordingly. Whereas some would just
introduce it as is and it was more about
the contribution to the overall fund.
Third is the use of the fund's balance
sheet to create overlays, hedges,
completion portfolios to either offset
or counterbalance other parts of the
portfolio. When you don't have an SAA
mandate, you can be much more flexible
and tactical. So, two examples I want to
highlight here are CPP and APG. Two very
different funds, but both utilize this
concept as part of their investment
process. So CPP has built up a team of
internal specialists that deploy capital
when they see opportunities from a
bottomup perspective. However, there's
another team that takes more of a
top-down view of the world and they
create offsetting positions or sometimes
they'll even lean in further to what
those bottomup specialists are doing. So
creating an allocation that again
contributes to the overall portfolio but
doesn't actually disrupt each of those
specialists from doing their thing. And
that could be hedging out interest rate
risk or it could be if the bottom up
team sees opportunities in a certain
country, the overlay team could
completely hedge out that country's
currency exposure. Whatever the case
might be, it contributes to the overall
portfolio. APG also does this using more
of an overlay program that actually
predates their move towards TPA, but
again, they're trying to balance out
this bottom up view with top- down risk.
And both of these are meant to express
that without disrupting the specialists.
Fourth was a completely new lens for
looking at the world in terms of
geographies, sectors and factor
exposures. So New Zealand super takes a
very broad unconstrained approach to how
it expresses geographic and sectors
exposures across different countries. So
rather than looking at these countries
or markets on an individual basis like
an asset class or how you might look at
an asset class, they actually look at it
on a much more targeted granular
individual basis. So they might find a
couple of themes around healthcare or
financials or blockchain technology and
then they just cut across all the
different asset classes, geographies and
sectors. CPP obviously does this as
well, more from a factor-based exposure.
And then future fund also does this in a
more thematic type of exposure. So
again, you're not looking at the world
and here's the asset class, do I like it
or not? It's what do I take out of this
asset class as well. So Aaron, one of
the additional interesting things
Charles shared was how moving to TPA
created this sense of clarity, but also
again maybe some liberation, this
freedom in terms of what they wanted to
own versus not own because the reference
portfolio is the only bogey. It's the
only framing reference or benchmark. So
you don't have to own asset classes that
you don't want to or that don't make
sense anymore. So let's listen to
Charles walk through this. [music]
There was a real clean out of the
portfolio in the first few years after
adopting the reference portfolio and
total portfolio approaches. The other
thing that was notable and I think
distinctive was that we were more
comfortable not necessarily having all
asset classes represented in our
portfolio and this goes back to that
idea that you want to have competitive
tension in your portfolio and you want
to be including those things that are
attractive and being willing to not
include things that are not attractive.
So for example, there was a period there
when for a few years when we didn't have
any real estate to speak of in our
portfolio, which I think you would agree
is quite distinctive, makes it a
distinctive portfolio relative to most
of our peers. Although that said, as
we've grown in size, we acknowledge that
it becomes harder and harder to pivot
into and out of a whole asset class
through time. So there are some things
you can do in a total portfolio approach
when you're small that you can't do when
you're large. And I'm not saying by any
means that we're large on the global
scale, but the way that we think about
the total portfolio approach, I think,
is slightly different from the way that
some of our peers think about it, who
are much larger and who just can't do
the things that we do.
[music]
There's one final thing I want to talk
about here, which is going back to
process a little bit, which is the
important distinction between tactical
asset allocation and competition for
capital. And I think that's worth
pausing on. This was actually one of the
most common questions that we got during
this journey that we were on around
implementation. I remember getting into
a debate which I wasn't expecting at
this event with someone who was shaking
their finger at me and saying, "Well,
there's no difference between what
you're describing of competition for
capital and tactical asset allocation.
That's the same thing. You're just
putting a different label on it." So, of
course, that inspired me to write a blog
post on this, which we'll link to try to
explain how these two concepts differ
from one another. And the way I would
describe this is that it's really that
gravitational pull that you feel during
your decision-making process. In a TAA
program, your center of gravity, it
always goes back to that policy
portfolio, the SAA, the prescriptive
asset class waitings that have been
handed to you by the board. So maybe you
go over by a couple percent or under by
a couple percent, but you're always
driven to move back to that SAA because
that is what you're being measured on.
Whereas on a competition for capital
type of framework, your center of
gravity is the overall fund. You just
want what is the best mix of different
assets in the portfolio that are going
to achieve the objective. And in some
cases that might mean that you don't own
certain asset classes at all. I remember
talking to NZ Super and Charles
mentioned for the longest time they
didn't own real estate in the portfolio
which in a typical SAA might be a core
component of your private markets
allocation and it just wasn't attractive
to them. So being offbenchmark because
there's better opportunities that are
out there is really the shift. The
analogy that I make in the post is
comparing tactical asset allocation to
chess and competition for capital to
monopoly. Both very fun games with very
different objectives. So in chess, you
have all the pieces on the board.
There's rules that you have to follow in
order to win. You can only win by doing
one thing, which is to take out the
king. But in monopoly, the goal is just
maximize your wealth. And however you
decide to do that based on where you
land on the board is a more competition
for capital. you may decide, I don't
need to buy this particular property
because I've got a different opportunity
that is a couple spaces ahead. I think
that's important because it gets down to
the process, but also what you own in
the portfolio. A lot of these different
funds will own things that are strange
offbenchmark or they won't own anything
at all in particular asset classes. So,
I'll stop there, but John, I think that
might lead nicely into the whole
question of how is this different or is
it different at all? The wrong question
that I think you've challenged and
helped us think through is is this
portfolio really going to look different
tomorrow verse today? The answer is of
course not. This takes a while for these
processes. It's very ethos of TPA is
about process cultural governance change
that frees up degrees of freedom to
pursue the best opportunity for the
marginal dollar as you said. And so your
healthcare example is a great one. Or
let's just say you're playing data
centers and it's currently in your real
estate private book, but you think
there's a better approach on a different
part of the capital stack, whether
through public equity or through
mezzanine debt offerings. The gymnastics
it would take to change that where you
were playing on that capital stack in an
SAA model is massive and lots of board
meetings and lots of headaches and lots
of changes in allocation. And that's
just when you step back and think about
the arbitrary constraints as I've
described earlier that is obviously
suboptimal. So I think you're right
though that's the investment element of
this but I also think that misses the
bigger question or it perhaps is a
distraction to the even bigger question
of how different this really is at its
very foundation because there's a
growing chorus of challenges or party
poopers that will say things like this
is just a new title for what we've been
doing forever. It's a fancy new naming
convention. you kind of said this that
has some feel-good branding nature to
it, but really there's nothing to see
here. Keep moving on. And I respectfully
disagree with that sentiment because
this is not simply new wine and old
traditional skins. I should also say
that I also think it's reductionist to
suggest that this is a linear
progression from SAA with a few upgrades
and a fresh paint job. So, it's neither
something that has always been around
nor is it just an incremental change. I
think it's something completely
different. I think that's part of the
reason we struggle to nail this down is
that I think TPA you could say exists on
a parallel path to our current model. So
let me just explain what I mean by that.
So let's think about some of the framing
language or definitions that we've heard
from some of the contemporary leaders
here just to set up my attempt at a
definition or a distinguishing language.
So Charles Hyde of New Zealand Super
called TPA more a quote state of mind
versus a distinct process or workflow.
Jeff Rubin of CPP summarized TPA as one
unified means of assessing risk and
return of the whole portfolio. The
future fund of course uses language like
joined up for both describing behavior
and portfolio construction. Swang Chum
who was my first conversation again that
Starbucks meeting at the bottom of GIC
describes TPA as the fourth realm of
fund management following Norwegian
endowment and Canadian. And I think
Chum's language or vocabulary of realm
is a good one because it doesn't suggest
that it's chronological or straight line
progressive. It exists as a realm does
in a different sphere or reality. So I
think the best way I can think of to
describe the difference is that TPA is a
fund model and SAA is an investment
model. So the reason I say that is that
strategic asset allocation was birthed
out of Marowitz's MPT Sharps CAPM. It
was never designed, let's just be fair
to it. It was never designed to speak to
or opine on things like culture and
governance and separation of duties
between CIO and board or fund purpose or
who the beneficiaries are and how
demanding they will be on liabilities
and payouts. TPA in many ways provides
the stitching to more closely align the
fund's purpose and goals with its
investment program. Now, I do think Chum
is right in placing TPA closest to the
Canadian model in his realm discussion.
We spent some time, by the way, in
episode one of season 2. That was the
episode on long-termism, reliving the
Canadian Pension Management Act of 1990.
Just real quickly because I think this
is interesting. Back when the regulators
and working groups were constructing
what we had now call the Maple model,
they made the case that these pensions
need not just be allocators of capital
but actually worldclass organizations.
Now what did that mean to them? Well, at
the time what they said was that it
placed much more emphasis on not just
investing capability but also building
competency across the full set of
systems, technology, talent, etc. So the
Canadian model has always been about
cultivating a durable culture that
promoted innovation, repeatable and
defensible processes, robust operational
and risk infrastructure, etc. And
importantly, it's overseen by an
independent board of fiduciaries that's
free from conflict, removed from
political agendas that we see often in
the US, and simply focused on maximizing
outcome for beneficiaries. So the
originally managed Canadian model in its
purest form was about the entire system
and the fund being positioned for
generational success and continuity of
purposes. But and here's the big butt.
All that said, which is why Canadian I
think tells the story that's closest to
TPA, but until CPP began actually
practicing one fund TPA, this was more
dream and regulatory speak than reality.
And the idea of world-class
organizations and world-class portfolios
were adjacent at best. They were not
cohesively interconnected. So hence TPA
was this glue, this stitching as I said
that I think finally brought to life
maybe what those regulators and those
legislators had in mind. Roger Irwin in
only Roger Irwin language reminds us
that TPA at its essence is investment
governance reimagined through a system
lens. And he's been harping, by the way,
as you know, Aaron, on governance and
culture as superpowers for enabling
investment outcomes for two decades. So,
while we've had the components of TPA
around for years, asset liability
matching, risk attribution, team
incentives, board CEO decision rights,
definition of success, all these things
have been part of our vernacular and
part of the apparatus. But TPA provided
that connection of the underlying
liability and beneficiary much more
explicitly to the risk budget and the
return harvesting of the portfolio. So
that's where I think that idea of fund
model versus investment model to me was
the best framing exercise to understand
the true differences. And when it comes
down to the portfolio part of this too,
I love that realm living in a parallel
universe in a way, but it's not a linear
evolution necessarily. Some of these
organizations will have SAAS within a
TPA construct. So you can borrow the
best of all the different realms that
are out there, if you will. It's just
who is making the decision and how are
you organizing yourself within the
organization. So again, why it comes
back to the soft stuff, the governance
and the cultural side of things is
because within the organization, you can
do it in a lot of different ways. maybe
a more targeted example of that fund
model versus an investment model. You
can see that in practice with some of
these organizations.
>> Agreed. Okay, let's finish up. Aaron, as
I said, I wanted us to finish on a word
and some back and forth on GP
implications. I think this is probably
the part of the TPA story that is most
ignored, least appreciated. Some of that
could be the fact that GPS are ignoring
it because they assume it just has to do
with asset owner structure and fund
culture. Maybe they remain aloof that
the transition does in fact impact them
or perhaps they give it lip service but
haven't really embraced some of the
radical change they need to address to
be successful in this new TPA model
versus their comfort zone. But I do
think regardless of which reason it is
that GPS are way behind in thinking
through how they need to adjust and
rethink their relationships and their
business models. So we've used new words
like playbook, mousetrap, institutional
framework for allocating and governing
capital. These are big broad changes and
words and claims. And when the wiring of
the system is replaced or upgraded, the
entire ecosystem by definition has to be
affected, not just the top of the food
chain at the asset owner. Again, I think
asset owners have been, yes, the
catalyst for this change. Consultants
are beginning to adjust, but GPS have
really, as I said, been lagging in my
view on how they're thinking about this.
So, I want to provide a three-step road
map here for you to react to in how I
think the three categories in which GPS
need to most adjust to or think through.
So the first one I'm going to call the
GPS need to move on from their pattern
of box filling beauty contests to really
shaping their posture around portfolio
impact. So from beauty contest to
portfolio impact. So if you're a direct
lending GP for example, you have to
realize you're no longer competing at
least mostly competing with several
other direct lending GPS for a claim on
the 2 to 3% vacancy that happens to be
available in the portfolio. You are now
in a TPA model competing against a
litany of every good idea across asset
classes and risk premia. So what does
this mean? Well, you need to understand
the whole portfolio. Obviously, how is
that portfolio positioned? The
tendencies and the current investment
thesis of the CIO, the overall goals of
the fund. So the entire organism needs
to be in your sights and mind versus the
one small piece that you're used to
competing against. The historical
performance of your strategy, which is
usually your headline at the front of
your pitchbook against his peer group,
may actually now be the third or fourth
most important thing on the list of
considerations that the CIO is thinking
through and wrestling with. Portfolio
fit is the most critical factor now,
which means, and this is really
counterintuitive and really hard, that
you may need to be willing to identify
when you are not a good match for the
asset owner. Your goal is to be an
extension of the CIO and helping her
with the portfolio cohesion story versus
this transactional parts provider as Gan
gave me the language of.
>> So John, I just want to interrupt you
for a second cuz I think it's worth
hearing more from Gene on this. I love
the way that he frames this in some
tangible ways both in terms of
reorienting the conversation to the
total portfolio but also understanding
the constraints of the organization. So
let's listen to him walk through that
here.
There's such a sharp contrast [music]
between being an armslength
transactional parts provider for an
asset owner versus a strategic partner
that requires a consultative engagement
and a much deeper awareness of what's
going on. And I want to break this down
into a couple of different points here.
You and I have probably observed very
very skillful, focused asset managers
with strong track records in their areas
that are myopically focused on what they
do really well, but have very little
context or awareness for the big picture
problem that the asset owner is trying
to solve. They may be an amazing, let's
use an example here, US equity deep
value shop or a private equity firm
focusing on venture. They may be great
at what they do and when they talk to an
asset owner they use the contextual
language of what they do and hope that
that resonates with somebody across the
table that is equally skilled in
speaking that language and can then take
that and translate it to what does this
mean for the whole portfolio. I think
that as TPA gains more adherence, and by
the way, even if it doesn't, even if so
many asset owners don't get to the
promised land of TPA, but they're
thinking in more of this solutions
mindset, what you're going to find is a
greater awareness is required for what
the asset owner is actually trying to
do. Are they trying to be more liability
driven? Do they have inflation exposure
that they're seeking that they might not
be getting? Are they looking for more
diversification within their manager
sleeves to help them in a different part
of the portfolio that you have no
visibility into at all? It's being able
to really think at a different altitude.
It's not where do you fit in in the
asset class sleeve that you happen to
play in speaking with maybe the
investment staff that are again very
skilled at underwriting those types of
managers. It's taking a step back and
almost asking yourself, if I were the
CIO for this asset owner, what am I
worried about? And how do I move the
needle with the capabilities that I, the
asset manager, have at my disposal
internally? How do I marshall those
capabilities in a way that actually
helps the asset owner accomplish what
they need? So, emphasis on awareness.
And there's a couple of other points I'd
love to make too on that. Being able to
understand how your investment
organization and your investment results
are viewed by the asset owner is
crucial. I've seen this in multiple
organizations that I've been a part of
and I've underwritten managers when I
was on the consulting side as well that
the way that you view what you bring to
the table and what your results are
aren't necessarily the same way that the
asset owner views them. And we talked
about this earlier with risk systems. If
an asset owner has a sophisticated risk
system or if they have a gatekeeper or a
consultant that can help them with that,
they will be evaluating you and your
strategies in ways that perhaps you're
not looking at them the same way
internally. And so bridging that gap, I
think, is really important. Having the
awareness, understanding how am I being
evaluated? What does success mean from
the asset owner's perspective versus
from your perspective? I think that an
emphasis on risk and on risk factors are
really, really important. I've seen this
through the lens of quantitative
managers that have that in their DNA.
They're pretty good at being able to
express that to the market. For other
more traditional asset managers and
those that deal in asset classes that
don't really lend themselves to a
quantitative approach, that's not an
excuse. You need to be able to
understand what are the risk factor
exposures of your strategy. What
exposures do you bring to the asset
owner portfolio? So there's really this
multi-dimensional
understanding of as the asset owner I'm
assembling a collection of strategies.
They need to be coherent. How can I help
in that coherence? So again first
understanding what the asset owner's
problem are. This is not a product
pitch. This is not a transactional
relationship. And then being able to
understand how you really fit in. And
I've observed that there's been a
longunning convergence from trying to be
a parts provider to trying to be a
partner. That this is something that's
been going on for my entire career. I
don't think that we're all there yet,
but we're certainly moving in that
direction. But being able to zoom out
and ask yourself, what am I solving for?
How do I go beyond just filling a
perceived gap in the portfolio? And I
think that honestly is really hard to
reposition. This takes effort. It takes
work. It takes resources. It's a
different mindset for asset managers
that need to be able to flow into what
the asset owner is doing and the
framework that they're working in.
[music]
This takes a tremendous amount as you
can hear me even talk. Imagine that this
is going to be hard work in
self-control, in self-awareness, in
active listening, etc. Which leads me to
my second related point. So, parts
provider to portfolio fit. Second, you
need to position yourself as a chief
problem solver for your client. We
overuse the word partner, so I didn't
use that in the title, but it's accurate
as a contrast with how we often think of
GPS as agents or subcontractors or hired
hands. Now, that's unfair to I think a
lot of the intent of most GPS, but
nonetheless, that's the way the system
has been structured. That's the way
incentives work. That's the way the
contract is facilitated is that they are
agents or subcontractors. So GPS now
need to be in the business of providing
solutions instead of selling products.
So again, this means you'll need to
devote a ton of time getting to know
what is important to the client, not why
your strategy is awesome, who are their
beneficiaries, who's on their board,
what are their agendas, how are the
decisions made, what are the
liabilities, what is the cultural
identity, what is their benchmark or
their goal. So instead of myopically
pitching a strategy, grasp what the CIO
is worried about and make them look good
by contributing to mitigating that worry
or that risk, what keeps them up at
night. And this is really going to
challenge many of our default mechanisms
and attitudes and particularly how GPS
think about scale, how they think about
customization, how they think about
separately managed accounts. You alluded
to this multistrategy capabilities,
flexible mandates. May I even say that
being in and out of market through this
traditional every two to three years
fundraising model for one strategy
focused on one geography and one sector
is kind of an anathema to the idea of
solutions provider. It is very
partsoriented. So even the draw down
fund I think may be at risk here. There
will be much fewer GPS needed in a
long-term TPA partnership model. CIOS
are going to significantly rationalize
their managers. So the successful ones
need to learn to operate at this much
higher altitude. So solutions provider
third and finally you'll need to employ
a different language and tools and all
these are interrelated but words matter.
Words matter in our relationships and
they matter in business. So logos if you
will is foundational. How you speak and
what you talk about is a reflection of
what you think and your underlying
values. So, in a TPA shop, asset
classes, benchmarks, relative
performance against peer groups, asking
what your quote PE book is or your
private credit sleeve is, LPGP
alignment, contracts. This is SAA
vocabulary. I use it all the time, so I
am as guilty as anyone. But we need to
completely rewire the words and the
phrases that we use. We'll need to learn
a new contextual language to translate
all of that as far as what we can
provide and what we're hoping to quote
sell into what it means for the whole
portfolio. And this should not be
underestimated. Again, when our entire
pitchbook is based on that beauty
contest mentality or that us versus
them, we've got to completely change
things. And CIOS are going to need help
in addition to the language and
vocabulary with risk assessment,
technology solutions, data sets, thought
leadership, and intelligence that assist
them in actually understanding the
overall positioning. not just the
benefit the incremental alpha of your
strategy but the overall positioning and
exposures of the portfolio. So there is
lots there again that is moving away
from parts provider to total portfolio
to solutions provider and to changing
your vocabulary. But Erin I'd love to
get your reactions on that three-part
agenda if you will for GPS.
>> I think those three are great. I have
written a couple of notes down as you
were talking as I'm hearing this live.
So maybe a couple things to further
expand on the three points that you
made. So one is the idea of I love the
beauty contest versus fitting into a
broader portfolio. And I think some of
these asset owners when you talk to them
about their relationship with GPS talked
about the GPS being an extension of
their investment team, but that
information flow went both ways. So
rather than the GP providing a service
for hire to the asset owner, there was
an exchange of information from the
investment team on the asset owner side
to the GP as well. What they were seeing
and how their strategy might have
stacked up relative to others. And so
that may not necessarily lead to dollars
and flows moving in to every single
strategy, but it was more of a open,
honest, transparent relationship amongst
the two. And that I think is a shift for
this industry because we're very
transactional in how we build
portfolios. The information share might
come after you've already bought into a
fund or you've created that transaction,
but in a lot of cases, some of these
asset owners would work with GPS on
information share even if they weren't
actually invested in that particular
strategy. So I thought that that was a
good point to raise is that partnership
or chief problem solving officer is a
good one as well. The other one that was
part of this, and I don't know if this
is problem solving or if it's the beauty
contest, but as I mentioned before, a
lot of these GPS and funds will
co-create mandates with managers. And so
GPS going from a mindset of maybe this
gets to your draw down fund comment of
I'm fundraising for this particular
strategy and I'm going to do this every
two years. It's coming to the table and
saying what do you need? What are you
trying to solve for? and what's a theme
that you're trying to express and let's
co-create something. I might actually be
able to solve your problem that my more
broad-based strategy is not going to be
able to solve. So, I think that that
co-creation of products and investment
strategies is another one. And then you
mentioned this as one of the three, but
a lot of these asset owners, one of the
big shifts in terms of external
management is that they did have fewer
deeper relationships with GPS. And that
ultimately led to stickier money for the
GPS because they really vetted who they
wanted to work with. But it also meant
that at certain times, let's say you've
got a multistrat private market shop.
They've got credit, they've got equity,
infrastructure, real estate. But at
different times, the asset owner would
invest in different parts of that
business, but they've got an overall
enterprise relationship with the GP. So,
I've heard some conversations where the
GPS said, well, maybe we just need to
come to market with a multi-asset class
strategy so that the plug-andplay into a
TPA framework is more scalable for us.
And that might be a solution, but what I
think is a more elegant solution is
establishing an enterprise level
relationship with these GPS and then
being okay with dollars and flows moving
across each of their different
strategies. And that could be a standard
strategy or a co-created mandate. So I
don't know if that's anything new in
terms of the headline three that you
identified, John, but those are maybe
some examples of how that could be
expressed in practice.
>> No, I think they're great. I love this
idea that the relationship, I don't want
to say the contract, but the
relationship now is going to demand and
expect much more than just the
quantitative delivery of returns. It is
a connection and an extension and an
intertwining that will go much deeper,
therefore be much longer term, be much
stickier. Switching costs will get
harder. It will be more challenging to
unpack and unwind. And all of that
eventually is good though if you're a
solutions provider. So, by the way, I
should just say this Clarion call on
this agenda is not set out of judgment.
It's set out of encouragement because
ultimately if our goal is optimizing and
improving investment outcomes, every
piece of this ecosystem to go back to
where we started has to be moving at a
similar pace. And if we've got some
pieces of the value chain resisting,
moving slower, maybe less aware of how
it works, then eventually it's the
beneficiaries that are going to suffer.
So that's why we're harping on so much
of this.
>> And there's examples of this working
well. To your point, it's encouraging
because you've got asset owners that
employ TPA and they do this already.
It's just more of them are coming to
market
>> and I think learning from them is a good
thing as we've done through portions of
this episode. So we're going to have to
leave it there, Aaron. There you have
it. Decanters TPA 2.0. I hope that's
been helpful for you. It's always
enjoyable. This is one of my favorite
topics if it's not abundantly obvious.
[music] But we look forward to
continuing conversations around the
world on TPA and its adoption and
perhaps [music] a few more tipping
points beyond the Kalpers moment. So,
thanks for listening and we'll see
[music] you next time on Capital Decant.
