Good morning, good afternoon, good
evening wherever you are in the world.
Uh my name is Rob Langrich, uh chief
product advocate of CFA Institute and uh
really happy to welcome you to this
feature today. For this the fifth in the
series, we're focusing on the role of
the credit rating analyst. Uh so we do
have three esteemed guests uh who have
kindly volunteered to join us in
personal capacity uh to be here today to
talk about the credit rating uh role. So
let's kick things off and I thought I'd
start with intros. Um so what I want to
do I want to learn how each of our
guests wound up doing credit ratings uh
when and why did CFA program and give us
a bit of a flavor for typical day in the
life. Let's begin with you Matt.
Absolutely. So, I had been working in
Washington, Washington DC as a research
analyst. I was actually looking at
sellside equity analyst jobs because
that's just kind of what I thought of
and what I knew. But actually, in a in a
great plug actually for the CFA career
site, I posted my resume. A recruiter
from S&P reached out to me from the CFA
career site. Um, and it ended up being a
great fit. I I hadn't considered rating
agencies and and didn't have prior
experience in credit, but it ended up
being a great fit. We meet with
management teams and investors. Um we
write research reports, prepare me
materials for committees. So it's it's a
varied workload. Um I also currently
oversee four junior analysts covering a
portfolio of about 40 companies. And
there's different kinds of
opportunities. You know, S&P is a huge
company. So is so is Moody's. Um there's
there's all kinds of opportunities to
get involved across the company with
different initiatives. So uh Sarah, over
to you. Sure. So I I started more on the
on the equity side before moving to uh
to the credit side about four years ago.
So I was in uni during the 2008 global
financial crisis. Um I obviously saw
that ratings had a very important role
to play in financial markets. Um so I
always thought that was an interesting
part of the market to be involved in and
I wanted to be a part of that. Um, with
regard to CFA, I started that journey a
few years into my career, uh, back in
2012, I think, for level one, and I took
a very long break about 10 years before
completing the the last two two levels.
Uh, for me, it was really about getting
a 360 view of of finance. Uh plus of
course the CFA program recognized
globally uh opens up so many career
opportunities and I wanted
that. In terms of a typical day uh in my
roles as a credit rating analyst at at
Fitch, of course, every day is
different. Uh my day usually starts with
reviewing financial news and and market
updates um to stay informed about
anything that might impact my my rating
portfolio. Um, I spend a significant
part of my day on pure analytical work.
Uh, and that's not surprising. I'm I'm
an analyst. Um, so that's monitoring
portfolios, looking at at data in Excel,
reading legal documents and and
preparing committee reports. Um, is very
much analytical uh and and detail
oriented work which I I really enjoy.
Uh, excellent. Over to you Karen. Yeah.
So, I uh sort of fell into credit
research actually. I started out of uh
university as a credit trading intern at
Mizuo and right at the end of my
internship I ended up doing a bit of
credit research and I absolutely loved
it. I mean very similar to what Matt and
Sarah said, you know, the highly
analytical aspect of the job. It's it's
very enjoyable. It's very gratifying as
well. So um I've been doing that since
so sort of end of 2021. Since then, I've
been doing um credit research and I did
my first exam actually in um I did my
first exam in August
2022 and my last exam was February last
year. Um, and I really wanted to do the
CFA just to get very very good grasp on,
you know, the different aspects of the
financial industry, get understand a bit
more about the fixed income space as
well, bit more of the intricacies that
maybe you wouldn't necessarily learn in
a bachelor's degree. And in terms of the
day-to-day of my job um sort of you know
looking at a lot of things really you
know rating models um financial models
valuations
um speaking with you know inter having
internal meetings external meetings
speaking with PMS
uh formulating and suggesting trade
ideas to them whether that's relative
value trade ideas or fundamental based
ones um and yeah just sort of doing um
credit reports on each of the the names
that I follow. So that's a sort of brief
overview of my my role. Well, you went
through the CFA program extremely fast
there. So August, what the following
May, level two, and then the following
February, level three. Yes, I I did. I
wanted to get it sort of done as quick
as I as I could really. I bit more time
in when you're younger, so might as
well. Well, there you go. I certainly
took me a bit longer than that to do it.
So let's dig right in and talk really
get get into the meat of this. talking
about the job role. So let's start with
questions on the structure of the credit
ratings profession. So somebody's asking
what is the difference between a credit
rating analyst and an equity research
analyst. So I think both roles involve
financial analysis but their their
output and and focus are are quite
different. Equity research analysts
typically provide uh buy and sell
recommendations for for stocks. uh their
main goal is to guide investment
decisions uh by identifying potential
opportunities and evaluating the growth
of uh of companies. Whereas on the other
side uh credit rating analysts are
responsible for assigning credit ratings
as the as our um job role suggests. Um
so our focus is more on assessing risk
rather than evaluating potential. We um
and I think that's also coming from a
trade rating agency background. I think
Karen may have a different view on this,
but uh we look at the likelihood of of
default and the issuers's ability to
meet financial commitments. So we're
really focused on the debt side. So even
though both roles might analyze the same
financial statements, uh the the
approach is different. Uh credit rating
analysts concentrate on risk assessment
and and creditworthiness. Um it's a
slightly different way of of looking at
the same at the same data. Someone's
asking uh what skills and attributes
should you focus on developing to be a
successful credit rating analyst? My uh
my personal opinion here is that the
number one is it's intellectual
curiosity. So really the the desire to
understand something to find the right
answer. I think that's really important.
Um I think at the rating agencies we're
really collaborative. So being able to
work on a team and also do what's right
since we're regulated. Um I think
there's a high kind of ethical bar
working at rating agencies. Um and also
I I spoke to our recruiters. So I was I
was curious for their perspective as
well and they they said really different
sectors, different coverage universes
require different skills and
experiences. Um and and we look for
different things when we hire in
different different roles. So some asset
classes may want someone with deeper
industry expertise or you know asset
expertise but there's something um like
securitization or something like that.
Um for corporate ratings where I work I
don't think you necessarily need a ton
of credit
experience. You know when you're first
joining we have the criteria we have
training. I think really just the
intellectual curiosity is really what
propels you in this role.
um you know having the technical
knowledge I think is really important
though as kind of a basis the financial
statement analysis um I think that's a
core skill and and that's really why we
have a lot of people in the CFA program
or coming out of the CFA program because
of that that technical knowledge um so
you know if you're interviewing at a
credit rating agency I think it's it's
good to know what a rating is what role
it plays in the markets but but really I
think it if I always go back to you you
want you need to want to need to have
that intellectual curiosity.
You know, it's funny at CF Institute, we
view curiosity as the number one thing
that employers look for in finance.
Quite kind of interesting. It echoes
echoes with that what what what you say.
That's really good to hear. So, we got
lots of questions on entry- level roles,
uh, which is is perhaps unsurprising.
So, someone's asking, "What are the most
common ways to land a credit rating
role?" Let's actually go straight back
to you, Karen. Um, because I I think
you're the most recent graduate. Um, so
what do you think are the most common
ways into the credit rating business or
the credit credit analysis business?
When it comes to the sort of uh the buy
side, it's a lot less structured than uh
than you'd see on the sales side. Uh so
particularly when you look at you know
hedge funds and PE firms I would say you
know if you look at pension companies um
those could be a little bit more
structured and you might find dedicated
programs where they train you uh but
when you're looking at the hedge funds
and PE pees VCs that kind of world then
you really want to be you know almost
sending them trade ideas via email or
cold calling them that kind of thing.
it's a lot more proactive, a lot a lot
more difficult and yes, I mean it it
does help to to know somebody in those
those kind of sectors but looking at you
know some of the skills that you you
need or some of the things you know a
typical background might have you know
I'd look at uh classic STEM degree uh
some kind of
certification like for example the CFA
and some of the softer skills
communication skills manage management.
Uh you should know modeling.
Those are some of the sort of key skills
um to know there. And uh yeah,
unfortunately it's it's not highly
highly structured the recruitment
process on the Bible. Uh but it's you
know it is doable. Got it. Okay. Very
good. So let's wrap up and talk about
CFA program and the credit rating role.
Uh and then we'll go to Q&A. So
someone's asking here um how does a CFA
program help me be a top level credit
rating analyst? Uh so Matt I think you
mentioned that S&P Global does uh does
pay a lot of heedence to CFA charter on
on resumes. Um so what what role do you
think the CFA program itself can play in
terms of skill development for a credit
rating analyst? Sure. Yep. Thanks Rob.
Um I wrote down four things in in prep
for this for this one because I think it
is a number of different ways. So I
think the obvious benefit is the
technical knowledge and the nomenclature
that you accumulate um just by studying
the materials being involved um and that
helps you understand and analyze the
financial statements and the debt
transactions. Um also at the rating
agencies at least what I found is I had
a lot of responsibility at a junior
level. Um, I also look young. Um, and
you're often a lot younger than your
clients. So, I think the CFA charter
gives you some instant credibility with
your clients. Um, I think it also shows
your colleagues that you're when you're
interviewing that you're committed to to
being an analyst to to this profession.
Um, and then lastly, I think just
looking at what the program offers after
you have your charter and I guess
enduring as well, the various education
and networking opportunities. Um, and
there's local societies, things like
that to continue to network and advance
your knowledge and and um, you know,
advance your understanding of of the
markets.
It's a nomenclature uh, commitment,
gravitas, and networking. Uh, big
benefits that come from it then. Very
good. Okay. Someone else is asking um if
I have both a bachelor's and a masters
in finance, what's the benefit of doing
the CFA on top of this field? So I guess
someone's asking you know can you can
you be two credentials? So Karan let's
go to you uh to you on that one. Yes. So
there definitely is benefit you know I
have seen for example um where I work
itself all of the analysts are required
to either have the CFA or be uh working
towards the CFA. uh you can't maybe uh
don't necessarily uh can't necessarily
say that for a masters but there
definitely definitely is a benefit to
doing the CFA um in terms of what's sort
of better or what extra you gain from a
CFA over a mast's you know particularly
now with the new up uh the updated uh
curriculum you can tailor it to your
requirements a lot more now so you can
choose exactly which pathway to go down
and that sort of you know enriches your
own learning. Um where exactly where you
want it to be enriched.
