The human species has been writing for over
5000 years. Yet, writing has always
been a luxury, inaccessible. Memory alone is no longer enough
. Words are forgotten. So
humans drew lines,
animal silhouettes, hands,
signs, and transmission was born. From
reed to reed pen, from parchment to
quill, from quill to fountain pen.
Writing is no longer a skill,
it is a reflex, an automatic gesture,
a tool that anyone today
can use anywhere on any
medium. Even though writing is over
5000 years old, a man decided
more than 75 years ago to rewrite its rules.
A man who gave his name to one of the
most famous objects in the world and who is
surely hiding less than a meter away from
you. Welcome. Today, we
discover the incredible story of Marcel
Big, the inventor of the best-selling pen
on the planet, the Big pen.
Before becoming the creator of the
Bic brand, Marcel Bic was born in Turin in
1914 into a family of engineers from
the Savoyard nobility. Born into a
family of ruined aristocrats, Marcel
Bic grew up with a strict,
austere and discreet education. And as you will
see, it followed him throughout his life. The
future inventor of the Bic pen was a
serious and extremely rigorous student.
He wasn't the kind of kid who made
others laugh, and anyway,
it wasn't the place for that. Those who
grew up without money know this. Life doesn't give anything away for free,
and you have to
work twice as hard as others
to achieve your goals and
dreams. Marcel continued his studies at the
Lycée Carneau in Paris. He obtained
French nationality at that time and
enrolled in a law degree at the
University of Paris. But it's not
brilliant. His family has no money and
to pay for his studies, Marcel has no
other choice but to work. The
best school of business is waking up
one morning with the fear of the
end. Before creating Stylosic, Marcel
was a door-to-door flashlight salesman
in the streets of Paris. And that's where he
learns to persuade at the very
bottom of the ladder. He symbolically enters
French homes of all
social origins for the first time and faces his
first rejections in the business world. After
his law studies, Marcel Bick did
not become a lawyer or civil servant
as his father had hoped. He was
recruited by the leading English fountain pen manufacturer
at the time, Anchor
Stephens. Marcel
progressed through the ranks very quickly. and became
production manager of the
French factory based in Clichi. But then everything
stops. In 1939, at the very beginning of the
Second World War, Marcel was
mobilized and joined the air force. In
1940, he returned to civilian life
until the end of the occupation. The
years that follow are
crucial. Marcel Bck doesn't know it
yet, but he is about to make
history with the invention of the
Bic pen.
A heritage like that of the
Bic family demands the utmost attention.
How can we innovate without risking
losing everything with every investment? Ramify,
which sponsors this crazy story,
supports investors in the
management and steering of their
assets by allowing them to
free themselves from the mental burden associated with
investing. Unlike
traditional private banks, Ramify
has digitized the know-how of a
private bank to offer
extremely low fees and a seamless experience
while keeping the essential element: the human touch.
So, once your
investor profile is set up, you will be able to
communicate with their experts and
monitor your entire portfolio 24/7,
and there are 6 months of
management fees offered
up to €1000 to help you get
started. We're not talking about a simple
delivery service, but about comprehensive wealth management
. Life insurance, PER, PEA,
real estate, private equity, crypto,
art and even
tax optimization solutions or
Lombard loans. Ramif was launched in October
2020, already has
tens of thousands of users and
has been awarded more than 40 times in
the last three years for the
quality of its customer experience and the
performance of its products. So to
be as well supported as the
Bic family, you can scan the QR
code that appears or click on the
link in the description to simulate your
investor profile on Ramify and book
a private call with one of their
experts to take advantage of 6 months of free fees
and management up to €1000.
I have a real B point. A real
B point.
The future creator of Bic pens doesn't want to
remain an employee all his life. 1945,
end of the Second World War, the
hangars are overflowing. The army and
the aeronautics industry are selling off their stock at bargain prices, and
an opportunity is emerging. Marcel B
joined forces with Édouard Buff, the
workshop manager of the Stephens company, the
famous English leader in fountain pens.
Together, he bought a cliché workshop. and
put the rest of their savings
into second-hand machine tools.
Machines designed to manufacture
aircraft and weapon parts.
Machines which, once transformed and
adapted, will write the entire
manufacturing process to create
pen parts. The penholder,
pencil case and accessories company was born.
The company PPA, Marcel and Edward
take the gamble of developing an
inexpensive and highly efficient writing tool.
So, if we are to believe the statements
of his son who died in 2021, Marcel Bic
imagined the concept of the
ballpoint pen after seeing a farmer pushing a
wheelbarrow on muddy ground. He draws
a parallel between this wheel which traces
a perfect furrow and a pen whose
ball placed at the end of the
ink reservoir would deposit it on the paper without
making it smudge. A brilliant idea, except that it's
not new. Since the
end of the 19th century in the United States, a dress pen has
allowed writing on
leather and another inventor wins a
prize at the Paris thorn competition. for
a similar invention in 1919. Despite
the ingenious idea, it is an
imperfect product. So, difficult to
market. In 1938, an inventor
turned journalist, the Hungarian Las Bot,
filed another patent in Paris for a dress pen
which this time used
printing ink used in the
manufacture of newspapers. Mr. Birot
realizes that the ink dries very
quickly as it comes out of the machine and does not
smudge. Marcel Bic is inspired by the
office. He perfected the invention and
found the perfect formula. He optimizes
the central piece that connects the
ink reservoir to the brass tip where
the ball is set with precision to the centimeter
of a millimeter. Marcel Bic perfects the
mechanism but that does not make him
the inventor. If the well-known American fountain pen company
Reynolds decides
to circumvent the patent by changing a
slight detail to avoid paying anything, that's
not the mentality of Bic. So Marcel
contacted Mr. Birot in 1950 and signed
a licensing agreement. Marcel B offers 2
million francs to Mr. Birot, that's
roughly €200,000 in 2025 and a 6%
royalty on each pen sold. And
pens, believe me, you'll see
that Marcel Big is going to sell tons of them.
This was the era of the "30 glorious years," 30
years of growth, technological progress
and full employment that completely
transformed the French economy and the
living conditions of the French.
1950, 5 years after the Second
World War, France is rebuilding,
the economy is restarting and a new
era is beginning, the 30 glorious years. More
than 20 years of continuous expansion driven
by industrialization, rising
living standards and
mass consumption until the 1973 oil shock.
It must be recognized that the rise in
oil prices will have a
serious impact on our domestic catches. We
need to know this and we need to prepare for it.
And it is in this setting that Bic arrives at the
right time. The austerity of the
war years is receding. We want to consume. Save
time, discover, travel a
culture. Practices take hold and
soon an idea will become commonplace. The
jeable. That's where Bic will strike.
This is where Bic sold its first
Bic pen, the Bic Cristal.
Big crystal is the
epitome of simplicity. A hexagonal shape
reminiscent of honeycomb cells, with
six sides allowing for an
ideal grip. Three clamping points are
sufficient to provide the
most secure hold for an object. The Big Crystal does
not roll and its appearance is common.
Taking its form from the wooden pencils
used since the end of the 19th century
, it was in 1950 that
plastic became widely available. Three reasons
that led Marcel Bic to use this
material rather than metal or wood.
1. When it is melted in the mold,
industrial plastic is extremely
stable. It is possible to produce
gigantic quantities of the same object without having
the slightest manufacturing defect. Two.
Thanks to transparent polystyrene, which is
a type of plastic, we can see
inside an object, to see if we
still have ink left, for example. And
its price. The Big Crystal pen
sells for 50 cents in the United States. Five years
earlier, in 1945, the Reynolds
Rocket pen was sold for 9.75.
Bic established itself and dominated the market. The Big
Crystal was born. Yet, even though it
is cheaper, doesn't slap and doesn't
take up much space, the
Big Crystal pen doesn't find its place. At
the time, teachers and parents
of students categorically refused; they
refused to let their children sacrifice
the aesthetics of
pen calligraphy to draw simple lines of
the same thickness. In
1950, 6.2 million students were
enrolled in school from kindergarten to
high school. 6.2 million students who
could be the number 1 customers of the
BIC pen. You will see how
Marcel Bic will break free from rules
that were thought to be untouchable to make
his BIC pen indispensable.
Write neatly, write clearly with the
genuine Bic tip.
According to Umberto Echo, philosopher and sociologist, the Bic Crystal is
the only
example of socialism realized. An object
so commonplace that it belongs to no
one and erases
social distinction the moment you pick it up
. Marcel B is an expert in the
writing market in France. An expert who
knows that the sergeant major's pen will be
difficult to remove from the students' hands
. A pen that holds a near
monopoly on sales. But as
my grandmother used to say, Marcel is no fool
. He knows that all
students use blotting paper to
absorb excess ink from their pens.
Then Marcel had an idea. A
brilliant communication campaign. Bic, its brand,
will offer students drinks. Drinks
with the Bic logo. He's a genius.
Every time the ink from a fountain pen
leaks, we point it at our blotting paper which
is written on it: "I write neatly with
the Bic tip." And it worked. The idea
that such a common and inexpensive pen
could be in a student's pencil case
eventually became accepted. Have you ever run out of
ink in a Bic pen? Don't ask me
, I'm sure it's
not.
A competitor runs out of fuel.
Only the real Bic, thanks to its large
continuous capacity.
A Bic pen can write nearly 3 km of
text. Marcel knows he is not far from
an industrial miracle. 10,000 Bic
Crystal pens were sold every day from
the first year. The success was such
that in 1953, barely 3 years after its
launch, Marcel Bic decided to buy back all
the patents for the
pen to become the sole and
exclusive owner. Officially the
owner of the technology, the
founder of Bic will continue to rely
on advertising campaigns. In 1961,
and we've all seen it once, he had the
poster artist Raymond
Savignac create the character of the schoolboy with the
head of Bill, the Bic logo which became
the emblem of the brand and still appears
today on all crystal pens.
So even though the Big Crystal is a
real success, the dress pen
is still banned in schools. It would take until
1965 for two revolutions to
occur. After 15 years of
fierce struggle by teachers and parents
, at the start of the 1965 school year,
the Minister of National Education
published a statement
officially authorizing the use of the habit pen.
And the second revolution is linked to
large-scale distribution. France saw the
arrival of
hypermarkets in 1961, followed by Carrefour in
1963. In just 10 years, 200
hypermarkets were deployed across
the country. In 1950, there were very
few large stores. At that time,
people mostly went to bookstores,
stationers, and tobacconists.
Today, Styloic can be found
in all major retailers. The
big difference between us and our
competitors is that we, the dress pen
, you will find it everywhere. These
words are from Bruno Bic, the son of
Marcel Bic. In less than 15 years, the
Big pen has established itself in all four corners of the
planet: United States, Middle East,
Africa, Scandinavia, Japan. 75 years
after its launch, the Big
Crystal pen is sold in more than 160 countries.
A success, but only one product.
A brand's success is built on an
empire. It's impossible to build an empire
on this single product. So Bic has to
react.
It works, it works, it works.
Bic pens have won over the public,
but between 1970 and 1980, Bic went further
. Marcel BC decides to become even
more involved in our daily lives.
The same spirit, the best
value for money. Now that
children are writing with Bic pens
at school, perhaps it's time to
take care of the parents. In 1973, Bic sold
its first pocket lighter. And if I
have to remind you, in the
70s, smoking was seriously cool.
We see little boys smoking,
7th grade boys being walked in the street,
cigarette in mouth. Well, I think it's
a bit for the free one. In
1975, Bic followed up and produced its
first one-piece razor. Razors,
but I don't use
disposable razors. I belong to a generation that has
switched to all-electric. The Bic pen,
the Bic lighter and the Bic razor. Before
Bic came along, these items were seen
as luxury goods. A razor
was heavy, often made of metal, whereas a
lighter was a social marker. In
silver or even gold,
disposable products, accessible to all. It was
unthinkable. But Bic did it. A
Reynolds pen cost approximately 3000 old
francs. It will cost a little over €100 in
2025. The BIC pen, on the other hand, cost 50 old francs,
€1.50, 60 times cheaper. To
compare, a baguette cost
20 francs in 1950. And the craziest
thing, 75 years later in 2025 and
despite the inflation that
France is experiencing, the price of a Bic Crystal pen has
decreased. Thanks to improvements in the
production chain, it can be purchased
for only 40 cents each. That's it
, Bic Mania is born. 50
years ago, disposable products were
not yet a problem for the planet.
But Marcel BC already wants something sustainable. It is out
of the question that these products be
thrown away after a single use.
Each of these products is designed to
last. Behind this objective, Marcel
knows that if a user uses
the same product for a long time, they will eventually become
attached to it. And that's what we call
repeat business. That's an excellent
strategy. Two or three BIC pens will last you
a school year. A
razor can be used 5 to 7 times and
the lighter delivers on its promise of 3000
lit cigarettes.
McDonald's founder, Ray Rock, already said at
the time, "Luck is a dividend,
sweat. The more you sweat, the
luckier you get." And the opportunity
that lies behind all of
Marcel Bic's work came in the 70s.
An opportunity that can be summed up in one word:
advertising.
Hey Martha, pass me that big easy rich
lighter in that bowl. Bowl of
strawberries.
Thanks. This is perfect for hard to
reach places. And it helps keep your
fingers away from the flame. Oh, do I
smell?
If B did the Tour de France before
going around the world, it's thanks to
advertising. On October 1, 1967,
France discovered with wonder the
first images of the television news in
color. Finally, only those families
who had been able to buy this
outrageously expensive television set. Exactly one year
after the arrival of
colour television, the French government
authorized brands to
advertise in order to support the
French economy and fight against the
massive influx of American products. If the
creator of Styloic did not look
favorably upon advertising in the 1960s,
it was because it cost a fortune.
But Marcel Bic eventually gave in. He
asks his favorite poster artist
to animate his mascot taking off with
Bill's head on it. The success was immediate.
Years go by and the advertisements
become the signature of the
Bic brand. Football player Eric Cantona and
his razor.
My app,
can I imprint your razor for you,
please? Pink,
or even the famous pearls of the baccalaureate.
Tell me about Rambo's work.
Ben Rabo, he did loads and loads of
things.
H,
like
what?
Well, Rambo 1, Rambo 2, Rambo 3, and
the others. Not forgetting the advertisement
for the release of the Citroën Saxobic in
1998. A Citroën Saxobic sold in 6000
units.
A Bic pen will never hurt a
Saxoic. Citroën Saxoic 4900 francs.
The Saxoic was really inspired by the
Styloic. The multicolored upholstery already has
a yellow ball in place of a
gear knob. Five
different coloured seat belts like the Bic
four colour pen and Bic even offer you
a Bic survival kit at the time of
purchase with Bic lighter razor for the
luckiest. A keychain. So, no
rims for him, no air conditioning,
a small engine and a small price. The
Citroën Saxo was
Citroën's cheapest car. Marcel B has left
an indelible legacy. His promise
made in 1950, Bruno Bic carried it throughout his
life until his death in 2021.
Tobacconists have gained
a new product. Behind all
these successes lie failures,
many failures. And if up until now we're
betting on a flawless performance from the creator
of Styloic, you'll see that there are
failures. If you are already
subscribed to my YouTube channel, you
may have seen our video on the worst
tech products in history. If that's
not the case, you should like it. In the
early 1990s, Bic experienced one
of its biggest failures.
Bic perfume, wherever you want, whenever you want.
Perfumes, Bic perfumes in
small pods sold like
lighters on the counters of
tobacconists. Actually, I understand.
Bic's goal is to popularize
a luxury product par excellence. The
perfume, these pods are sold for 20
francs, about €3, four
transparent bottles, four
different scents, a perfume at the crossroads of
Big Crystal and a lighter. The
blue Bic perfume is the
evening fragrance for women. A lighter, more
floral red. The green is unisex, although
rather masculine and quite fresh. Le Noir,
a rather spicy men's fragrance. On
paper, Bic has a good idea. But
perfume is not a product like any
other. It is an object of seduction. We
love it when people ask us where
our perfume comes from. It's a pen. I
bought it at the barta there on the corner of the street. On the
sales side, the objective is far from being
achieved. Out of 100,000 expected sales, the
Bic perfume doesn't even reach 10,000
per week. Behind this total flop,
you will see how the brand will
transform this commercial failure.
successfully. Bic perfume was withdrawn from
sale in 1991. It can still be found from
time to time on some
online resale sites, just for a laugh.
Behind this commercial failure, there is a
system, a mechanism specific to BIC and
invented by BIC for this range of
perfumes. The spray, not the one we
all know, a spray created especially
for this perfume range. Bic obtained
a patent on this pshit mechanism
used and that's how they
managed to turn the situation around by
selling their invention and it
brought them much more than if they had
exploded sales with their perfume.
Geniuses also get burned, and it is often
in these precise moments that their
legend is born.
But I'll tell you, I have bankers
who come to see me, they pull out a sto
that's taller than a Bic pen. It happened to me,
I didn't respond. After 10
minutes, he looks at me and I ask them, "What's that
in your hand?" They're all
red now, and you think we're going to do this
together, and you don't even have
the brains to put a big one in
your pocket.
Bic sells 200 pens every second
worldwide. Since 1950, more than 140
billion Bic Crystal pens have been
sold worldwide. Bic is leading
in all markets. Fountain pens,
disposable razors, lighters, all
are sold by the millions every day.
Bic has sold 17 times more Bic pens
in history than the
Bible and the Quran combined have sold
worldwide, and 150 times more than Harry
Potter books. Bic has sold over 100
billion pens. The Harry
Potter saga has sold 500 million
copies. Do the math. Bic.
We're talking about a Bic Crystal pen. A
pen that costs less than a stamp.
And a very large part of
Bic production is still done in
France at the Montéin factory near
Paris. The historic factory created by
Marcel Bic was running out of space, so they
moved in the 2000s.
Since 1950, the Big Crystal has been
improved and modified about thirty
times while maintaining an almost
unchanged design. Only the cap, for
safety reasons, has been pierced and is no
longer pointed since 1995. Who said
that art had to be exclusive and rare?
With over 2 million Big
Crystal pens produced every day, the
Metropolitan Museum in New York and the
Pompidou Museum in Paris display the Big
Crystal in their permanent collection.
You have at home a 75-year-old work of art that is
now exhibited in the
world's greatest museums.
Handwriting is over 5000 years old. Yet
in 2023, only 11% of French people
reported using
paper and pen for daily writing. After 75 years,
Marcel Bic's pact ultimately remains
intact. To create objects that are popular par
excellence. In the face of iPads and
touchscreens, writing remains a
structural need. Bic cannot resist
digital technology. Bic is strengthening its
expertise. He is betting on
local leaders in India and Nigeria, rather than
relying solely on the West,
all screens. And even if writing is
destined to disappear, humanity
may write its last words with a
Bic pen.
