Hey, Max. Somebody said you sound like
an owl.
>> Who?
Oh god. Well, it's actually funny that
you make a a dad joke here because I'm
actually going to be showing you all
today how we can build an AI powered dad
joke generator using Amazon Bedrock and
the library that my team and I are
developing called effect.
>> Awesome. Production grade agents with AI
using effective programming. These are
things I love. Let's dive in.
>> Sounds good.
>> Where should we start? Well, maybe we
can start with uh effect as a library
and some experienced TypeScript
developers might think it looks
different.
>> It is a little different from what
developers are used to because it's a
totally different mindset for how we
program. Um can we dive into some code?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Let's take a look. So
maybe we can start with what effect is.
So you mentioned that effect is an
effect system, hence the name effect.
And in order to be able to write our
programs uh with effect, uh there are
primarily two styles of writing our
programs. One is with generators, which
again a lot of TypeScript developers may
not be super familiar with. Um but bear
with us. We're going to take a look.
>> Do generators come from the world of
JavaScript.
>> Uh they they're built into the
JavaScript language. Okay.
>> Um I'm not sure what the origin of
generators really is, but but they are
built into the language. So, we're using
a native language feature here to to
basically make writing imperative code
with effect systems a little bit easier
because our brains are wired to think
imperatively. You know, if x, do y, then
do this step, then do that step. And we
wanted to make that possible with effect
as well.
>> Okay.
>> Um, so that's kind of what the generator
syntax is there for. It's there for what
we usually recommended for writing your
business logic. So things that require
that sort of imperative if that this
then do that kind of logic.
>> This is like sequential things that need
to happen in a program but are the side
effect parts of our program. Like a pure
function call, we don't need to put that
into a generator. But anytime we're
going to like call out to an external
system, we're going to talk to our LLM
or talk read a file or talk to a REST
API. That's all going to go get
sequenced into this into this generator.
>> Yeah. anytime you're doing what we would
call like an effectful operation, right?
Something that you need to represent in
terms of an effect. So maybe we can
start even before we look at the
generator syntax. What what is an
effect, right? An effect is a
description of a program that you want
to run, right? So when you're writing a
program with effect, you're actually
describing the operations that you want
to happen. You're not actually executing
them. Once you've described all of the
operations that you want to happen, then
you actually run the program. And I
think that that's a pretty common uh
theme among effect systems in general.
So if you are familiar with an effect
system in a different language, you may
be familiar with like that concept
coming to effect as well.
>> This is like an interpreter pattern. And
so it's it's a way for you to add
functionality kind of weaved into this
thing at runtime. Exactly. And so it
allows you to add in retries, add in
fallbacks, add in all the kind of error
handling things that will help us get to
a more reliable production grade uh in
our case agent, but any kind of system
can be built with apex.
>> Exactly. Um that's a really great way to
think about it. Um we're using an
interpreter so to speak to defer
execution of the program later so that
we can bake in a lot of additional logic
at runtime.
>> Nice. So when we're using our
generators, uh, anybody who's familiar
with async await syntax in JavaScript
will probably be familiar with will
probably be able to understand
generators fairly easily. If you just
mentally map this function star syntax
and to a the async keyword in JavaScript
and you map the yield star syntax to
await, that's basically what we're doing
here, right? when we want to run an
effect which in this case we're getting
a random number um we yield that effect
which returns us the result. So if we
look at the result we get back from this
call uh we're getting back a number and
then we do some other steps here that
allow us to operate on that number. So,
one of the cool things about effect, and
I think we'll get into this when we
start talking about why it's useful for
uh why effect systems in general are
useful for AI programs is the ability to
do error tracking at runtime or in in
your program as well.
>> So, we're going to want to be able to
know like, oh, uh, the inference call
failed or my tool call failed. And we're
going to be able to aggregate those
errors as part of the effect system and
then be able to decide what we want to
do with those errors,
>> right? And you can accumulate the errors
over time like in the type system. So
maybe we can take a look. Um this
program again is grabbing a random
number and then checking basically if
it's over 50 we fail. If it's not we
succeed, right? And if we look at the
type of the program we get back, we can
see that it's an effect that we've built
up here. It can succeed with a number
and it might fail with a string. We're
going to maybe talk about this third
type parameter a little bit later. Okay?
>> But that's kind of the core of the
effect type here. we can represent both
successful operations as well as
unsuccessful operations which becomes
really powerful when you're dealing with
um AI programs in general.
>> And so if our program could fail with a
tool call error then that second
parameter which is currently a string
would have that tool call failure in the
in that but then we can also widen that
to other errors as well.
>> Exactly. And the more errors that you
add into your program they'll all show
up in the error channel of the effect.
we call it a these these types of
parameters channels. Um and so as you're
writing your program, you're
accumulating all those errors. Um if you
handle a particular error, it'll
actually get erased from the the type
that's shown. So you really have very a
very clear idea of what's actually going
on in your program. What can my pro
program succeed with? What's it going to
produce? And how can it possibly fail?
>> Awesome.
>> Um so that's kind of the generator
syntax. We use it again for business
logic, for imperative logic, things that
allow us to think sequentially like you
mentioned.
>> Can we actually run this that effect and
and see what happens?
>> Sure. Let me uh run this particular
effect.
>> I know you've got some other stuff to
show too, but see like like what happens
when we when we take that effect and and
run it. And I think some of the time
it's gonna fail and some of the time
it's going to succeed with a random
number, right? And that was kind of the
log exciting logic of it. But gets us
started with with how we manage um
failure, how we manage calling effects,
how we use the generator syntax.
>> Exactly. And we mentioned before that uh
when when you build up an effect
program, nothing happens until you
actually run it. So right now, this
program that we've assembled at the end
here, we'll talk about what this pipe
syntax is doing in a moment. This
program is not actually going to run.
It's going to build up this effect, but
nothing's going to happen. So if I run
this right now, we're actually going to
get no output. Um, what I need to do now
is instruct the my program that it needs
to run. And we have a bunch of ways to
do this in effect. Um, but in this case,
we're just going to do a really simple
running the effect into a promise. And
so,
>> and that's a JavaScript promise,
>> correct? Yeah. So, effect has uh very
good interop with promises. Um, so you
can incrementally adopt effect over time
in your codebase. Um, you can import
promises into effect and you can also
run effects to a promise. So if your
code is already with async await, you
can easily adopt effect over time. So
now that we've added the run promise
method to our program, we're going to
take the program, run it, and it'll
produce a JavaScript promise which can
be evaluated by the runtime.
>> Awesome.
>> So we've ran this code a bunch of times
and we've never hit the failure scenario
that we've described in our generator up
above, right?
>> Always successful. We always got a
number under 50, right?
>> Always succeed. Um, and there's a really
good reason for that, right? If you
think about the program we've written
here, we should fail 50% of the time.
And the program is actually failing 50%
of the time. But we've added some
behavior here that we didn't talk about
previously where we're describing that
if this program should fail, we want it
to retry on a particular schedule.
Right? So with effect, we mentioned that
generators are for representing business
logic, for representing the imperative
aspects of your code. But if you want to
add behavior to those programs, if you
want to compose different behavior into
that program, um that's where the
pipeline syntax comes into play. So this
allows us to to append additional logic
into our effect or onto our effects. So
that then when we run it, we're not just
running the initial effect. We're
running the the kind of aggregate of all
the things that we've put onto that
effect,
>> right? And we give it a fancy name of
pipelines, but really all it all we're
doing is sequentially composing function
calls. Um, and maybe it's a little bit
easier to do look at this with a visual.
So effect exports this pipe method which
allows you to do this function
composition. Um and if we were to write
the composition of add one subtract one
multiply by 10 without pipe um it would
look something like this right first we
multiply 42 by 10 and we subtract one
and then we add one and we get 420 but
our again our brains don't really think
very easily in this sort of nested mess
format right it's much easier for us to
think about things sequentially logic
being applied one after the other and so
that's why we have this pipeline syntax
Um in the pipeline syntax you sort of
unnst everything so that you can execute
these functions one after the other. The
first argument to pipe is the input to
all these functions and then all the
rest of the arguments in the pipeline
are the functions that you want to then
evaluate. So every uh the input to every
function uh becomes the output of the
previous if that makes sense.
>> Yeah. I mean it the word pipe kind of
explains that this is like moving things
through this like pipeline.
>> Yeah. So we can do the same thing with
effects as well because we mentioned
before that effects are not evaluated at
runtime immediately. We need to actually
run them. Effects are just values. So we
can compose behavior onto those effects.
Uh and in this case we're composing a
retry behavior onto our program. We're
saying if this program fails, retry this
10 times and you can do it on an
exponential schedule. So this is going
to have a do a retry with an exponential
back off. Every time we fail, we back
off in an exponential fashion.
>> So there's lots of different schedules.
You can use the exponential backoff, you
can do a linear backoff, you can do a
max number of times. Lots of different
options for how you schedule that retry.
>> Precisely. And everything in effect is
designed to compose. So you can compose
different schedules together as well.
Um, but that's sort of getting a little
bit more into like some of the different
uh modules we have into effect and might
be a little bit beyond the the scope of
what we're chatting about.
>> Cool stuff and lots more to learn.
>> Absolutely.
>> So, great. So, we've got our effect. We
can run it. We can see how we can manage
failures. That's all good. We've kind of
got I think the foundation for effects
and how it can help us get to production
grade just general systems. What about
AI? Is that is that where we're going
next?
>> I think that is where we're going to go
next. So, maybe we can take a look at
this second file. uh in our project
here. Um and this file introduces a new
library from the effect ecosystem. The
core maintainers of effect maintain the
core effect package which is designed to
allow you to write production grade
systems in Typescript. But we also have
a whole ecosystem of libraries that we
maintain that are designed to do things
like write HTTP servers, interact with
websockets,
uh, run workers, and we also have an AI
SDK that we've built that's designed to
work natively with Effect and give you
access to all of these cool features
like error handling and all of the other
cool stuff that we've talked about.
>> Awesome. And of course, it supports
Amazon Bedrock.
>> It does indeed. We do have support for
Amazon Bedrock and that's what we're
going to use today. Our AI SDKs are
designed to allow you to write programs
without really thinking about the
provider that you're going to use in the
end. You can write your pro your AI
logic, the logic that's going to allow
you to interact with an LLM um in a
manner that you don't really have to
care about which LLM you're going to
plug in at the end of the day.
>> And this is abstracted not just over the
provider but also the model. And so you
can use uh on Amazon bedrock we can use
the nova models or the cloud models or
you know many other options.
>> Exactly. So we expose this generic API
you write your logic and then at the end
of the day you sort of plug in like
which provider you want to use. Um and
we'll talk about it a little bit later
but we also have ways that you can
introduce like fallback logic because um
there are cases where you might want to
like fall back to other providers in
certain scenarios. And so we we have
support for that as well.
>> Awesome.
>> So if we look at the program we're
running here, um for the folks that
don't know me out there, I'm a very big
fan of dad jokes and puns and really any
people grown when you tell the joke.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so
>> so that part of you is easily
replaceable with AI.
>> I don't know if it's easily replaceable,
but AI certainly assists me in coming up
with content for for said jokes. Um, so
the program we're going to programs
we're going to be running today are
basically generating dad jokes. Um, and
so the program we've got here, again,
you see the generator syntax here
because we're going to be running a
little bit of imperative logic. And
right now, we've introduced this AI
language model module from our core
effect AI library. And this AI language
model uh module contains all of the
logic for text generation, for streaming
text generation, for structured outputs.
All of those things are baked into the
base uh AI language model module.
>> And that generate text uh method allows
us to pass in a prompt. And I'm sure
there's other parameters that we can
pass in as well. Sure. And then that is
an effect. And so that becomes managed
just like the effects we talked about
earlier. And so that then we can wrap
the retries and the fallbacks and all
the other ways to make this production
grade around that just one simple
effect.
>> Exactly. And this program is pretty
simple. We're going to generate a
fantastic dad joke and then we're going
to log it to the console and then return
the response. This response is a special
AI response type that comes from again
our core AI libraries. Um, but if we
look at the type of the program now, we
can see a lot of information without
really having had to do any effort,
right? The our effect is tracking for us
that the program is going to succeed
with an AI response. It might fail with
an AI error. And now we have something
showing up in that third type parameter,
which we didn't really talk about
before, but that third type parameter is
there for us to be able to track what
dependencies your program needs. So
something that you're going to have to
sort of plug in at the end in order to
make sure that that program is runnable.
And if you don't plug in said
dependency, you'll end up with a type
error uh in the in the type system. So
TypeScript helped us out there as well.
>> And the reason why we would want to be
able to have this expressed as a
dependency is that maybe we want to test
with a different thing. So maybe a mock
thing, maybe we want to test with a
lightweight model. And so testing is is
probably one scenario for moving this
into a dependency. There any other
reasons why we would want to to express
this particular AI language model as a
dependency?
>> Testing is a fantastic use case. Um and
then the other big use case, the reason
why this shows up as a dependency is
because again we're writing this program
without caring about the provider we're
going to use eventually to satisfy this
dependency. So in our case, we're going
to use Amazon Bedrock, but we could
easily plug in another provider if we
wanted to at the end of the day.
>> Awesome.
>> So that's another really good use case
for using the what we call the
requirements channel of of the effect
type.
>> Yeah.
>> And fun side note, uh we have to yield
star that console log because log into
the console is an effect.
>> We do have a console module in effect
that wraps like the JavaScript console.
So here we've got our final dad joke
program that we're going to run, right?
We are producing an AI response. We
might fail with an AI error if something
happens and we need to eventually plug
in a language model. So the next thing
we're going to do here is introduce
modules from our Amazon Bedrock provider
integration. So you can install
whichever providers you want into your
project. Um but again we have the
flexibility of plugging in whatever
model and provider we want to at the end
of the day. And Bedrock is great because
like you mentioned before, we have so
many models and providers available to
us that we can really easily swap things
in and out when we want to.
>> We have a way now to create the actual
kind of model instance and we specify
the model that we want to use which is
the cloud sonnet 4 model and you've
already gone through the AWS console and
set up the access to that model.
Correct. And I don't know if I showed
you yet, but there's now a way to even
set up API keys that make it super easy
to get an API key to talk to Bedrock. So
I'll have to show you that later, but
but it makes it super easy to even set
up the the way for this program to then
access, you know, securely access that
Bedrock model.
>> That's super cool. Yeah, we'll have to
take a look later. That's awesome. Um,
but yes, like you said here, we're
setting up an AI language model that's
specific for Amazon Bedrock and we're
going to use the Cloud Sonnet 4 module
from Bedrock. So, if we look at the type
that we're getting back here, this is a
specialized AI model type um, which
basically again allows you to plug this
into our program. And here we're using
another method from effect, the provide
method, which allows us to satisfy a
particular dependency for our program.
So in this case, we're taking our dad
joke program and we're providing the
Claude sonnet AI model which is going to
satisfy that AI language model
dependency. And if we look at the new
type for our program, the AI language
model is not showing up anymore, but we
have a new requirement.
>> So we took care of one, but we created
another dependency.
>> Exactly. Um, and this sort of dependency
tracking is really important because it
allows us to clearly express uh when we
need to plug certain things into our
program. So you can make like very uh
fine grain decisions about when you want
to plug these things in and where. Um,
but obviously if we want to talk to
Bedrock, we need a way of talking to
Bedrock. And our Bedrock provider
exposes a way to construct a client that
can speak to Bedrock. Um, in effect, we
have modules to deal with configuration
values and all sorts of other things.
Uh, secret configuration values, which
we called redacted values. Um, and
that's what we're using here to build up
the parameters that we need to talk to
Bedrock.
>> Great. So, I love that you've been able
to externalize this configuration. We're
going to probably use environment
variables to pull that in. Um there's
I'm sure many other ways to to pull this
configuration in. But so once we get our
Amazon Bedrock client, then do we have
all the dependencies we need to run this
thing?
>> Good question. Um so the Bedrock client
actually needs one more dependency. Um
if we look at the return type from this
layer config method, the last thing we
need to plug in is an actual HTTP
client. So we don't want to impose a
particular HTTP uh implementation on the
end user. Um so we basically expose that
as a requirement um from this uh layer
config uh method that we have here. And
I'm already satisfying it immediately
with uh another module from effect which
is called the layer module. But I'm
basically saying for that dependency
we're going to use just the fetch HTTP
client layer that we expose from our
platform integrations. Uh, but you could
use whatever fetch implement, whatever
HTTP client implementation you want.
>> And it may depend on where you're
running this because you can run on node
runtime, bun runtime. You could even run
this on the browser potentially, right?
Like like you'd have to figure out how
to, you know, provide securely provide
access to to your credentials for
Bedrock. But I think browsers may have
models built into them or there were
some experiments with that. And so maybe
you could actually have a model running
in the browser that you'd want to be
able to run this around.
>> No, for sure. Um, and that's kind of the
key. You bring up a great point. Our
goal with effect is not to impose any
particular platform on the end user, the
developer. We want effect to run
everywhere to be able to run anywhere.
>> It's multiplatform. It can run anywhere
JavaScript runs.
>> Um, and the goal here again with
exposing HTTP client as a dependency is
to allow you to plug in the platform
specific one. So in this case, we're
using the fetch uh HTTP client, but we
could use any other one that we want. Um
and now we end up with a layer that has
all of the dependencies satisfied.
>> So that never means I don't need
anything else.
>> Correct? And uh it could potentially
fail if we don't have a if we're missing
a particular config value, right? So we
expose that as an error.
>> Um and we produce Oops, I'm sorry about
that. We produce
a bedrock client.
>> Great. And now we can take that Bedrock
client, provide it to the final program,
and then we have the ability to actually
run this thing.
>> Nice.
>> So, why don't we take
>> Let's get our dad joke.
>> Let's see if it's better than yours.
>> Let's see if it's better. Give it a
second to reach out to bedrock and get
everything done. Why don't scientists
trust atoms? Because they make up
everything.
>> Um, so, you know, it's okay. It's it's
not as good as maybe one that I'd come
up with, but it's pretty good. Um, but
the point here is to show that uh with
effect with effect systems in general,
but with effect and typescript, you have
the ability to very granularly see what
your programs are going to succeed with,
what they could potentially fail with,
um, and what dependencies they require
to be able to run at runtime.
>> Yeah. And so now I can imagine this
being just one building block in an
application that I can then enhance and
grow and add the retries and add the
failure fallback handling and add like
just like build and build and build
around this foundation because the one
of the big concepts of effect systems is
composability. Being able to compose
this with other parts of an application
>> 100%. Um, and one of the key things
about the buying into the effect
ecosystem is that everything in effect
is designed to compose with each other,
right? So if you are using effect for a
particular part of your application,
everything will compose. Um, and so here
we've taken our dad joke program and
just by changing a few lines of code,
we've removed our generator and now
we're using uh stream text from the AI
language model. Instead of uh
instead of getting our response as one
giant blob, now we're actually going to
stream the response back. So, you know,
there was a little bit of latency we saw
before when we ran our program because
it has to reach out to bedrock. Bedrock
has to generate the content, then it has
to send it all back
>> and we have to wait until it's all there
to then display that.
>> Why not stream it?
>> You can imagine with a really large
piece of text generation you're doing,
you don't want to wait that whole time.
You want to start showing things to the
end user.
>> Um, so here we've changed a few lines of
code and now if we run uh this example,
we'll see that we have streaming output.
So the only real change here was instead
of using that generator and doing the
the generate text, we instead did stream
text and then that gave us a stream
back. And effect has built-in support
for streams that are effectful. And so
that's what we're building on top of.
And I think we did see there that it
did, you know, stream out the output
instead of just dumping it all at once.
Right.
>> Gave us the same dad joke, but at least
>> the same dad joke,
>> but we need to turn up the temperature.
>> That's right. Um, but yes, as you
mentioned, uh, now we're using the
stream module from effect, but stream
interops with effect and vice versa. So,
like I said before, everything in effect
is designed to compose. So, if you buy
into one part of the ecosystem, um, you
can easily compose on pieces over time.
Um, so, and again, if we look at the
return type of our program, we're still
tracking all of the different things
that we're interested in.
Um but maybe we can skip ahead one
example here. U you mentioned before
that one of the things that's really
interesting about effect systems is that
is the error tracking piece. The piece
that allows us to sort of see the things
that could go wrong. So maybe we can
take a look at um at this. So there's a
little bit more going on in in this
example here. one way that we could
potentially use errors as values in our
program to our advantage, especially
when interacting with large language
models. Um, so we talked before about
how there are situations where if your
program fails or if something happens,
you may want to fall back to a different
provider or maybe a different model. So
here, um, I've got a little program
running
that still tells us a dad joke. So, we
still have the dad joke, but then you
added something else in here, too, which
was the schema.
>> Yeah. So, I skipped uh the example from
before because I wanted to talk about
the error handling.
>> Okay.
>> But we're now using the third uh method
from the AI language model which allows
us to generate structured outputs,
right? And effect has a full schema
module that allows us to describe the
shape of different structures um and
allow us to do encoding and decoding on
top of different data types. So here
we're we're describing the structure of
a pun. A pun is going to have three
parameters or properties. A setup parame
parameter which is a string and we're
giving it a description here. These
descriptions are critical for the LLM to
be able to understand what type of
information it needs to put into that
structured property. So it'll actually
get converted under the hood to a JSON
schema here and get sent off to bedrock
for structured output generation. So
this is one way to get kind of better
reliability in our effect based AI
systems because now we have a schema and
we're going to try to get the data
that's coming from the LM into that
schema. If it doesn't conform, then
we're going to get an error hopefully.
Right.
>> Precisely. Yes. If we fail to conform to
this schema, we'll end up with an error.
Um and we can surface that error however
we want. By default, it's surfaced as an
AI error. Um which is kind of the
default error type from the AI package.
But we can map that error to other
things that are more useful in certain
cases or whatever we want to do. Um, so
we've got a couple of other properties
here on our pun object, but the point is
here that we're going to be generating
this structure for ourselves from the
LLM and using this schema to validate
said structure. So um, the response we
get back now is a little bit different.
It's not just an AI response. We have an
AI response that has structured output
as well. And this structured output
response contains a value that's
actually going to have the object that
we're generating,
>> the pun object.
>> The pun indeed.
>> Um, and so this program still looks like
pretty similar to what we saw before
with our basic like text generation. So
again, you don't have to change much to
get vastly different behavior.
>> Yeah. Um, but I think the interesting
part comes here where we start
describing what type of model we
actually want to plug in to use. So, um,
before we were just using the Claude
Sonnet 4 model from bedrock. Um, but
here you mentioned if we get a pun back
that we're not happy with or if it
doesn't conform to our schema, the
program might fail, right? And we could
even do more evaluation in here to say
like, you know, have the LLM grade
itself and fail with a different error.
Right.
>> If it's a bad pun, kick it out and try
again.
>> Exactly. If we get a terrible pun, try
again. Um, and so what I'm just what I'm
using here to describe that sort of
fallback behavior is another module from
effect called the execution plan module,
which allows us to describe when an
error occurs, uh, how should we change
the behavior of the program, right? And
so this could actually change the
dependencies that are being provided
when we run that effect.
>> Exactly. Exact. That's a great point you
bring up. The execution plant module is
actually designed to change the
dependencies at runtime if your program
should fail.
>> Great. So our effects actual
dependencies didn't change, but what was
being provided to it can change based on
failures. And so this can be a great way
to set up fallbacks to like, okay, that
didn't work. I'm going to try this other
thing. And it's all done through just
changing the dependency that's provided.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Um the the point of
the execution plan module is to allow us
to swap in another uh dependency that
satisfies what our program requires. So
here we're saying if our program should
the first step of our plan is saying use
clouds on it and try it two times. And
there are other parameters we could plug
in here like talking about a schedule to
use for you know trying again or you
know describing like behavior of a
predicate for like how long we should
try this or if we should keep even
trying this step of the plan. Um but
let's say that first step of the plan
fails. We can then describe a second
step of the plan here where, you know,
maybe we got a pun that was subpar,
right? Or maybe we
didn't generate the right structure or
something like that.
>> Um, we can fall back to maybe a more
powerful model. So in this case, we're
using claude opus. Um, and so if the
first step of the plan fails, the
program will be retrieded again with the
second step of the plan. And again,
we'll give it two attempts and and
whatnot. So you can really control uh
what happens at runtime with the
dependencies you're actually injecting
into a partic particular program
>> and so you can define your own execution
plan and that can be have any kind of
logic and progression and multiple ways
to roll through different dependencies
and totally up to you how you want to do
that
>> exactly. Um and instead of using provide
we use a special method on effect called
with execution plan that sort of drives
the plan behind the scenes. It'll go
through the different steps. It'll
provide the dependencies where it needs
to. Um, still used the same way as
provide, but just a slightly different
method uh to achieve the same behavior.
Um, and if we run this example, so I
think we're in the error handling.
>> Number five.
>> So, is there actually going to be
failure on this one or are we going to
first?
>> I think I think we'll get a first I
think Sonnet's going to do pretty good
with our with our pun.
>> Same same uh pun same joke as before.
>> Really likes this scientist joke. But
yes, the the point here the the example
is showing we can do structured output
generation. Um but it really shows like
how we can alter the behavior of the
program at runtime if we need to. So you
can use this for falling back to
different providers, falling back if if
one's a unavailable, you can use this
for falling back to different models uh
if you want higher quality output. Um,
it's very flexible and it's not just for
AI. You can use execution plan even in
your normal effect programs to affect
the dependencies that are provided to
your program at runtime.
>> So, we're using it for the AI
dependencies, but you could use it for
anything in your program. Exactly. Super
cool. And then the nice thing about this
is that our logic that is creating
calling the AI and doing the dad joke
part, that piece didn't change at all.
This was like separated concerns. You've
got the concern of the effect that's
talking to the AI. You've got the
concern of the dependencies and the
models and how you talk to them. You've
got the concern of the configuration and
how you get that. And we're just
composing all this stuff together.
>> Exactly. And you know what's nice as a
developer is you know you're often
working on massive programs, right? And
if you structure your programs in uh the
kind of serviceoriented pattern of using
uh services to inject business logic in
concrete like components. In this case
we're using predefined services that
effect gives you but you can create your
own very easily which we'll see in a
moment. Um it makes not only your
program much easier to test but it makes
it way easier for you to reason about
what's going on because you can see
everything at the type level here. we
can see easily that the things that
we're producing, the things that we
could fail with and the things that we
need to actually run the program.
>> And you can validate that everything
type checks. So this is going to help
make sure that when you get to
production that you have all the the
types are aligned that there's no you
haven't missed anything in terms of oh I
forgot this thing doesn't align with
this thing.
>> Maybe we can show that actually if we
fail to provide for example the client
that's required by our program right we
need a bedrock client here. If we fail
to provide that, we'll actually get a
type error that says um we need to
provide a bedrock client to our program.
>> So we get it right there in our IDE, but
we also would get it if we ran TSC on
this thing, right?
>> Exly. And we we also have a language
service plugin for TypeScript. So you
can install the language service plugin
and provide it to your TS config. It's
all it's just a few steps. Um and it
actually enhances a lot of aspects about
effect development. So I don't think I
have it installed here, but it would
show things like the dependencies that
we're missing. It would show a lot more
information about the types that we're
using. Um, so we really try our best to
improve the developer experience where
we can.
>> Awesome. Love that.
>> So now, um, let's take a look at like
maybe taking things even a step further,
uh, into the realm of AI, right? Um, I
know
>> I want my agents.
>> Well, to have an agent, we need to be
able to call tools, right? We need tool
calling in order to drive uh behavior
that our LLM doesn't have by default.
And so our core effect AI package also
has the ability to define tools um in
the form of what we call like a toolkit
uh a collection of tools that you can
give to your LLM to to call. Um and
we leverage schema which we saw
previously very heavily in uh our tool
definitions um for the purpose of
allowing the LLM to easily serialize and
deserialize values but also for the
purpose of allowing us to construct JSON
schemas on the fly because a lot of
these tool calls need to be represented
as JSON schemas. So it for parameters
and things like that.
>> I love that you can use schemas for this
because the schema is used as you said
for two things. one is the serialization
and deserialization and knowing how to
handle that part, but also with those
descriptions, it's telling the LLM what
it needs to know for what goes into a
field, how to like when we get into
tools like parameters and what's going
to be filled into into a parameter. So,
I love that we have like one schema
system that gets used for both of those
things. I think it totally makes sense.
>> Yeah. And it allows you to have the
description alongside the code that's
describing the object that you want to
encode or decode. Uh so it makes it
really easy to colllocate that
information. You don't need to have
things in a ton of different places.
>> That's great.
>> Um so here we're obviously defining a
get dad joke tool because what else
would we do?
>> Of course.
>> Um so this here is defining a a tool
which we're calling get dad joke. Um
it's going to get a hilarious dad joke
from the icon has dad joke API which is
a public API that does exist. Huh.
>> Um
>> maybe it'll do a better job than the LLM
with coming up with creative jokes.
>> We'll see. We'll see. Um we're gonna
we're saying that this tool when it
succeeds uh succeeds with just a string,
which in our case will be the joke
itself. Um but we could easily make this
a more complicated object if we wanted
to. Uh it can never fail, although
obviously calling out to an API can
fail. Um in this case, I'm representing
the failure case as never. Um, and then
we have some parameters that we want the
LLM to be able to use to influence the
tool call behavior, right? So, in this
case, we're giving it a search term that
it can use to find dad jokes in the API,
>> like given a certain domain, like I want
Star Wars dad jokes or something,
>> pirates, whatever. We we were I think we
were talking about scientists before.
Maybe we can we can uh do that.
>> Yeah.
>> But um and then we have a bunch of logic
here. Here, I'm not going to walk
through this in great detail because it
sort of deviates from what we're
discussing now. But this logic shows how
we can also use schema to define the
shape of things like responses, the
shape of things like data we're getting
back from an API and use those schemas
for doing serializ for for doing the
deserialization
um coming across the wire.
>> Yeah, makes sense. We also have a
service that we've defined here in
effect that allows us to communicate
with the icon has joke API um and it's
using some of our other uh ecosystem
modules under the hood. So things like
the HTTP client and things like that and
uh without getting too in the weeds uh
about effect services, they allow you to
encapsulate uh behavior to make it more
easily testable. So you can have
business logic that you package up into
a service um and then you can inject
that dependency later.
>> Love it. So that's the effect.service is
now we're going to have a a sharable
service that other parts of our program
can call to search for dad jokes against
the I can hasd jokes.com. Uh and then
this is also like in effect. So all the
great things about programming we can
add into this as well. We could add
retries. We could add fallbacks. We can,
you know, all the ways that we want to
deal with potential failure
>> work in this HTTP client essentially in
the same way that they work with all the
other things we've seen.
>> Exactly. And our service here returns
just a single method, right? This search
method which allows us to search for a
particular joke. But you could imagine
that if you wanted to test this service,
you could just return you could give
your program a service that just has a
mock search method, right? that always
returns the same value or something like
that. So using services makes your code
one more easily maintainable because
business logic is very nicely
encapsulated um and you can depend on
other services to construct the service
but it also allows you to easily test uh
components of your code.
>> Mhm.
>> So again don't want to get too in the
weeds on services but um we're going to
take the toolkit that we've constructed
up here. So, we're using the AI
toolkit.mmake constructor, which just
takes an a bunch of tools, packages it
up into a toolkit, which we're calling
dad joke tools,
>> and that's just kind of the metadata of
the tool, right? It's it doesn't have
any functionality around how it does
that yet.
>> Yeah, you can think of it kind of like a
spec for your tools, right? There's no
logic here. We we haven't said how we're
going to implement this tool or any of
the tools in this toolkit, but the
toolkit itself is just a spec for how
what tools your LLM should have access
to and the shape of data that they can
receive as input and provide as output.
>> Nice.
>> Um, but obviously for our application,
if we want the LLM to be able to call
tools, we need to provide an
implementation. So here uh we're using a
method on the dad joke toolkit which we
call two layer which allows us to take a
toolkit and convert it into a layer that
we can then provide wherever we want in
our program. And we're going to in the
constructor for this layer we're going
to grab our icon hasd joke service which
in effect we can just yield things. You
can just yield things in effect.
um we can yield the what we call like
the identifier or the tag for this
service which is the name up here. When
we yield that we actually get access to
the implementation of the service so we
can actually call methods on it. So it's
working like a normal effect where I
need to put it into a generator and
yield it to actually be able to then
access the the value which the value in
this case is the service that can
actually make the calls and when we make
those calls those are also going to be
effects. Exactly.
>> It's great when everything's in effect.
There is a actual side effect that we
need to manage.
>> Yeah. I mean the the nice thing about
this is um when you when you want have a
service and you want access to it, you
just yield it and you get access to the
service. It's like grabbing the service
out of the effect requirements for that
program and then you have access you can
use it however you want. So yeah, we're
implementing our dad joke toolkit here.
we're con taking it and converting it
into a layer. And in order to do that,
we need to provide an implementation for
each of the tools. So in our APIs, the
way this work is we return an object. Uh
the key of the object that we return is
the name of the tool we're implementing.
Um and then the value is a method that
gets called. So this search term
parameter is inferred from
here
>> from the shape in the schema of the
schema. Right? That's great. So from the
parameters of the tool that we've
defined, we then infer the type of the
parameters that we get when we're
actually implementing. Um so you can see
search term here is a string and then we
can use the service we've built to
search for that term and this will
return us a string.
Uh and that satisfies the requirement of
the tool that we had above. If we were
to change this to, for example, return
something like a number,
we would get errors saying that
>> that's not going to compile,
>> right? We're we can't compile because
we're not returning the correct uh
output type.
>> I love that we're combining the schema
with the implementation
at like a later step because the schema
is very important to what we're doing
with tools and calling the LLMs. It
needs the schema. And so like having the
schema there in this very structured way
is I think really helpful because it
essentially is an API to that you're
giving to the LLM. And so um you need to
make sure it's right and and consistent
with what you actually have on the other
side. And so um so yeah, I I think this
is going to help create much more
reliable agents because we can't screw
it up. you know, you've you've got all
this type safety, but then also you've
got the the strict schema that you're
defining with all the type information
in that schema.
>> Yeah. And the other cool part about this
is because the toolkit spec is separated
from the toolkit
implementation, we can actually use the
toolkit for other things. And I'll show
you maybe in the next example, our last
example of how we can reuse the toolkit.
Um, but separating the spec from the
implementation gives us that flexibility
as well. Plus again it's very easy to
test. If we wanted to create a test
implementation of this, we just call two
layer again and export a test version of
this our handlers uh that maybe returns
static data or something like that.
>> That's great.
>> Um
so because we've uh accessed our icon
has dad joke service, we need to provide
it somewhere. So I've chosen to do that
here just to keep things nice and
localized. So now the layer we get back
here doesn't have any requirements,
doesn't fail with anything, but you can
see it produces a handler for our get
dad joke tool.
>> Awesome.
>> Um,
our
program again is going to look pretty
similar to all the programs we've seen
so far, right? We we're not doing
anything crazy here. Um, I have kind of
moved the provision of our model like
into the program itself, so it's not
like a separated variable anymore. But I
think the key point to point out here is
now when we're generating our text, I'm
actually providing a toolkit which is a
separate parameter on all of our
generation methods um that you can
basically say, hey LLM, you have access
to all of these tools that you can call
my app with and then I'll give you the
response back.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so in this case,
we're going to ask it to uh get a dad
joke about pirates, but instead of
having the LLM do it this time, we
actually want to send it over to the the
service that we know has good dad jokes
on it. And so that's a place where where
it's like, yeah, it makes sense. Like
like, you know, weather data, you know,
anything that the model is not like
super awesome at or doesn't have access
to, we're going to put it into tools.
We've got the schema, we've got the
implementation, and then the LM is going
to figure out like, okay, now I need to
actually make the call to the tool to
get what you need, and then that goes
back into the the LLM, and then the LM
figures out what to do with it.
>> Exactly. I mean, you summed it up like
perfectly. The we're basically serving
as an intermediary for more information
that the LLM needs. Yeah.
>> Right. The LLM saying, "I can't do this,
>> but you can." So it calls our app, tells
us to do something and then we do it and
give the response back to the LLM to
enhance that generation.
>> And it uses the schema to fill in the
required parameters for when it makes
those tool calls.
>> Yep. It uses the schema for that. It
uses the schema to validate input and
output so we know exactly if we're
getting the correct success or error
response. Um, and this is kind of the
foundation to what you mentioned earlier
about building more agentic systems.
Right.
>> Let's run it and see if we can get a
good dad joke.
>> Yeah, let's take a look. So, let's go
ahead and run this.
So, scientists finally did a study on
forks. It's about time.
Um, so anyways, you can see here what
I'm actually logging out. It's not
actually the response that the LLM
sending back to us. We can show that in
a second. This is the results that our
tool call uh got from calling icon has
that joke.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So we have uh when we get a
response back that has tool calls, we
get a special response back that has
tool call results in it. Um and then we
can log out those results, but we can
also give it back to the LLM.
>> So in this case, by default, it's not
doing the like full agentic loop where
it's feeding the the tool responses back
in and then letting it get until it it
the LM decides that it's completed
whatever you've asked it for. So this is
just a just generate text tool call give
me the result. But there is some ways
and I was experimenting with ways to do
that agentic loop and it was pretty
straightforward to like wrap that
agentic loop around around this stuff.
In this case, when we're using the
simple AI language model, we can just
evaluate if the response.finish
reason equals tool calls, then we
probably want to uh uh get another
response. Next response equals uh
yielding our AI language model again and
generate some text. Yeah, just feed it
back in
>> and we prompt we give it we can
literally just feed the response back in
because um our AI uh our AI response
type um is able to be converted into a
prompt. So we basically load in all of
the previous context and now we can log
out the next response
and we'll run this one more time.
Here's yeah hilarious dad joke.
Scientists finally did a study on fork.
It's about time. At least it's a little
bit different than the joke we got
previously
>> well. It did wrap it with some
additional context like it. Yeah, it's
um so it did augment the the response
from the tool call with additional
information. Right. It's interesting.
So,
>> and I do like that that what you've
started with is this like granular
approach and then you can build the
higher level abstractions on top of that
because that's a big part of what
effects allow you to do is take building
blocks and compose them together into
larger more abstracted things. And so,
of course, you'll be able to get to the
like abstracted like fully agentic loop.
But if you want something very like you
want very granular control, you can drop
down and just call this this API for get
text. So I love that there's that
ability to to stretch across kind of
both ends of the spectrum. Thank you.
Yeah, I mean I think that the goal is to
give you as the developer as much
control as possible. Um and like you
said, there are some higher level APIs
we can use, but um this kind of
demonstrates the lowest level we can get
to. Um, and maybe one thing we can take
a look at since we mentioned it before
is how we can reuse toolkits that we've
already defined, right? And I think a
great use for toolkits, uh, is plugging
them into an MCP server, right? And you
love MCP servers.
>> I love MCP servers. So, yeah, let's see
how we can use that schema and toolkit
and all that that we already have and
MCPify it.
>> MCP servers are great. They provide us a
lot of really cool functionality that we
can then expose to our end users. And
Effect does have a builtin um MCP server
implementation that's totally custom and
designed to work with effect. Um I've
got a bunch of different examples in
this file uh like exposing templates,
exposing prompts that you can load into
the uh into the MCP server. But I've
also grabbed all of the dad joke code
that we had before and I'm also plugging
this into the MCP server. Um, so if we
scroll all the way down here, we can see
a bunch of different layers that I'm
plugging together here. But the key
component that I think is very
interesting is this layer that I'm
creating right here. So our MCP server
module exposes methods to create layers
for your actual server. Um, and we
support both standard IO. Um, and we
also support streamable HTTP.
>> Um, nice.
>> We're working on a client for MCP as
well. It's not out yet, but we are
working on it. Um, and in this case,
we're just going to use standard IO to
kind of demonstrate um the different
functionality that you can then expose.
But if you notice, the toolkit is the
same. We haven't changed anything about
the toolkit. So, we can reuse it for the
purposes of MCP as well.
>> Awesome.
>> Um, and maybe we can actually run this
with the model context protocol
inspector um to kind of test it out in
the browser.
So just to summarize, you took the
schema that we were using for the kind
of local tool calls and you now are
using that to create the MCP server
around that. And so the the the the
schema, the definition of the AI toolkit
is the same. The then uh the
functionality that you're wiring that
with is the same. And now you're just
going to take that whole thing and say
MCP serverify this thing. And now like
super easy. I love it.
>> We can actually even see where it's
happening if we if we look at the code.
Um I'm merging together the layers that
we're building for both our templates,
our prompt, and also the toolkit itself.
Um and then I'm just providing all of
these layers to the MCP server layer
with this layer provide call. So kind of
like you said, we're literally just
plugging everything in to the MCP server
and giving it access to all of this
additional information. And in this case
using the standard IO MCP server, but we
could use the streamable HTTP one uh
alternatively and put this up on AWS.
>> Exactly. Exactly. This could easily run
on AWS as a streamable HTTP MCP server.
Um and if we take a look at it, if we
connect to our server, um we can list
all the tools we have access to. And you
can see our get dad joke tool here
coming from our toolkit. Um the
description of the tool is coming from
the schema that we defined before. Um
and we can insert search terms just like
we had in our schema. Um so maybe we can
do scientists again.
>> Good old scientists
>> and run the tool. It's the same joke.
>> The same joke.
>> Let's try something different.
>> Some very non-deterministic results
today.
>> Let's try pirates.
>> Yeah. Why are why are pirates called
pirates? because they are
>> they are but we also have access to all
the other things we exposed from our
server. So the prompts that we we were
showing before and we also support
autocomplete. So we have some like mock
autocomplete defined in this example. Um
but you can set up autocomp completion
as well.
>> Oh and I see an effect there. So of
course I could generate those those
autocompletes from something effectful
>> wherever you want. Uh it's fully like
effect. So everything here supports
running effects to get this information.
Um so we can do things like uh and you
get all of our autocompleted output
here. Um we can get prompts and then we
also I think had resources defined here.
Maybe it was a template uh that we can
uh fetch or something like that.
So full MCP server support. And uh our
example there with the get dad jokes
that was not actually an agent but one
of the things I've been playing with
which I'm going to create a sample for
uh once we get the MCP client support is
the ability to have tools as agents and
this is a way to do like inter agent
communication so that we can actually
take an agent expose it as a tool and
then use it in another agent and so I'm
going to come up with the the sample
that does that for for TypeScript and
effect That's very cool. I would love to
see that example when it's ready. Um,
but yeah, I we've we've demoed a lot
today uh about effect and all of the
different things that u you can do with
it. We focused on the AI use case, but I
want to be very clear that effect is
designed to allow you to write
production grade TypeScript. Um, we have
a lot of modules on top that allow you
to do AI, HTTP servers, blah blah blah.
But the point is to that effect is
designed to allow you as the developer
to write production grade TypeScript. Um
we have a discord server with a
fantastic community of folks that are
always willing to help because we know
that the learning curve is a little bit
high with effect. It's basically like
writing another language inside
Typescript. Um even though it is just
TypeScript, it looks like another
language. Um but the community is
fantastic. We've got a lot of really
great folks who are always willing to
help. Um, and going back to the AI use
case for one last point, you know, one
of the things that I think people are
very interested in, you kind of
mentioned this, is kind of the agentic
aspects of the things that we can build
with all of our the AI SDKs that are out
there. Um, but one of the other things
we're working on with Effect is allowing
you to build um workflows that embed AI
logic. So, durable workflows written in
native TypeScript. um that allow you to
do things with AI or do anything else
that involves a durable workflow. So we
already have an alpha release of effect
cluster available for folks to test and
there's an alpha release of effect
workflows out there. Um and folks are
already testing running AI agents on top
of cluster with workflows to make sure
that their agentic interactions are as
durable and and uh consistent as
possible. I think this is great because
this is one of the challenges with these
like large agent-based systems is we've
got lots of agents. They all need to
figure out how to interact and they have
to figure out the right way to share
state with each other. And that's where
things get really tricky. And so I love
that you're bringing this whole
ecosystem together with factorial
programming with AI with with durable st
shared state across a cluster. All that
stuff I think is really helping build
the future of agentic workloads and I'm
glad it works with Amazon Bedrock. So
this is all fantastic. Max, how do
people get started with this stuff
particularly for running on AWS?
>> That's a great question. Um, there are
actually a couple of communitymade demos
for deploying effect clusters straight
to AWS already. Um, so it should be
pretty easy to get started and we can
include those links in the description.
>> Awesome. And then what about joining the
community? Where can I get help?
>> Also an excellent question. Uh, I would
go to the effect website for anything
documentation related, anything you want
to learn about the stable modules in
effect, but you can also join our
discord server from the website um to
become a part of the really awesome
community that we're cultivating around
effect.
>> Awesome. Great. And do you happen to
know how do object-oriented programmers
get wealthy?
>> I'm not sure how.
>> Inheritance.
>> All right, that was a good one.
