[music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that [music] explores the
Brookfield ecosystem's role in creating
sustainable wealth on a global scale.
[music] Today we have another edition of
Deal Debrief where we get the download
on recent [music] transactions from the
people who put them together.
On this [music] episode, Ricard Bada
joins us to discuss our investment in
data 4, a leading European hypers scale
data center platform as well as the
growing need for digital infrastructure
in Europe [music] and beyond.
>> Ricard, welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you, Meredith. It's great to be
here.
>> We're excited to get into this topic
today. Obviously, I don't think anyone
goes a single day at this point without
hearing the term AI or something about
the AI technology world and AI
infrastructure. We want to unpack what
that is from the Brookfield perspective.
To start off, can you introduce yourself
to the audience and share what you do at
Brookfield?
>> Perfect. So, look, my name is Ricard and
I'm a senior vice president at
Brookfield Asset Management in our
infrastructure business focused solely
on global AI infrastructure investments.
>> Great. So, we're going to unpack what AI
infrastructure means because I think
people have been hearing a lot more
about this topic in a very short period
of time. But the reality is that we've
been working on this for quite a while
now at least I don't know 5 to 10 years.
So, what do we mean when we say AI
infrastructure?
>> Perfect. So look, I think that the best
way to start is just, you know,
outlining to the audience that
Brookfield is today the world's largest
investor in digital infrastructure. And
the traditional definition that we had
for digital infrastructure was three key
verticals. The first one was
telecommunication towers where today
Brookfield is the world's largest
investor with over 300,000 sites on a
worldwide basis. Secondly, it's fiverr
infrastructure which includes longhaul
fiber and fiber to the home that
directly brings connectivity to people's
homes. And finally, data centers which
is what everyone's probably familiar
with which are large facilities that
house compute and storage. Over the last
2 years, digital infrastructure has
evolved and there's now a new category
of infrastructure which we call AI
infrastructure and that is all of the
infrastructure in the value chain that
is required to power a new type of
compute that trains artificial
intelligence models and helps to run
them. There's three categories. The
first thing is the AI factory which is
the core and shell and the electrical
equipment that power the traditional
data center model that you may be
familiar with. The second aspect is the
on-site power generation or behind the
meter power solution that energizes the
data center or the AI factory when the
electricity transmission grid is not
available. And these days is something
that is incredibly fast growing. And
finally and perhaps most importantly is
the compute that sits inside the AI
factory. So ambious GPUs that are
required to power AI infrastructure
training and AI model training and AI
inference. Now, over the next decade, we
believe that this is an incredibly
exciting opportunity for us to invest
because there's over $7 trillion of
total capital that is required to build
out the backbone of the AI economy. And
we believe that this investment is going
to have great riskadjusted returns and
payoffs for the global economy with a
boost in productivity of over $10
trillion by 2030, which to put into
perspective, this uplifting GDP
represents two times the size of the
German economy, which is Europe's
largest economy. That's a huge number
and a great backdrop for this
conversation. Can you tell us about data
4 and their role in this ecosystem? Data
[clears throat] for is a fantastic
business that we acquired in March of
2023 and is Europe's leading hypers
scale data center developer and it forms
part of one of our flagship investments
in our infrastructure strategy. The
background on the company is that is the
number one panuropean data center
developer and has operations across
multiple countries including France,
Italy, Spain, Poland, Germany and
Greece. The business operates or at the
time we acquired or operated 35 data
centers across this platform and it had
a seasoned management team with deep
experience developing these data
centers. Now what's really important for
the audience to understand is that data
4 is our flagship developer in Europe
but this form is part of Brookfield's
wider global data center platform which
today has six different developers
across five continents and has a scale
that is second to none with over 3
gawatt of total capacity under operation
or near-term development and a land bank
that exceeds over 5 gawatt of total
capacity. You're talking about a few
different really core aspects of this
build. No matter where you are, it's
power, it's land, it's compute, there's
a lot of different things happening. And
we've had other conversations with folks
on this podcast about that Brookfield
ecosystem flywheel effect. And I'm
wondering if that's maybe part of the
baseline for why we felt data 4 was a
great partner and ultimately what that
has produced. So can you give us some
background on where we started with data
4? What brought us to the table there
and where we found ourselves a couple of
years later?
>> Absolutely. Look, this is a really a
great question and what we saw in data 4
was the opportunity to buy a leading
data center business with very strong
track record and an incredible growth
potential and obviously these form part
of our Brookfieldwide ecosystem where we
have an incredible set of assets that
are synergistic with each other. Now, at
the time that we bought the business,
the company had a lot of the
characteristics that we look for in an
infrastructure platform. Namely, it had
a strategic footprint across multiple
European markets with significant
barriers to entry. It had high quality
long-term contracts in place with over
85% of the revenue being contracted out
to investment grade counterparties. It
was a top bendor for five of the top 10
global hypers scale platforms and the
management team was worldclass with deep
customer relationships and a great track
record at executing on a growth
strategy. Now, we bought the platform in
March of 2023, which was an incredible
moment in time because it was just 3
months after the GPT moment took place
at the end of November of 2022 and the
growth of the business significantly
expanded from not just traditional cloud
outsourcing, but the buildout of the AI
infrastructure economy. So you rais a
really great point about the moment in
time for our first foray with data 4
which was only a few months after chat
GBT had really expanded to a much more
consumer audience and as we've seen with
other what we would call industrial
revolutions the acceleration of AI use
and the needs that it requires has
exploded and the end users many times
don't necessarily know all the things
that it requires to not only keep that
going but to help support its scale and
And I'm curious in the couple of years
now, which might feel very long or very
short depending on what side of this
you're on, has there been anything that
surprised you about that growth or that
acceleration?
>> We bought the business at the time, as I
said, at a unique moment in history
where it was 3 months after GPT was
launched. So we started to see the early
innings of the AI infrastructure boom
that the world is currently experiencing
and on the back of an acceleration in
cloud outsourcing which for the audience
cloud outsourcing is a secular trend in
the digital infrastructure space which
involves the shift of workloads from
traditional enterprise environments
inside their premises towards
centralized data centers such as the
ones that data for develops on behalf of
hyperscalers. Now looking back the
growth was materially higher than what
we had forecasted at the time. To put
some perspective in 2024 the rate of net
new compute demand in the world doubled
relative to 2023. And in 2025 we're
experiencing a significant step up even
to the 2024 levels. Now this presented a
unique opportunity to us which needed us
to do three key things to be able to
capitalize on it. The first one was we
significantly expanded the land bank of
scaled power properties that data for
had access to. We announced the
intention to invest 20 billion euros in
building Europe's largest AI factory in
the north of France partnering with data
4. This project is going to require the
buildout over half a gigawatt of compute
and it's incredibly important to the
European economy. So these additions to
our land bank are incredibly important
for data for to be able to capitalize on
the growth. Secondly, we have
significantly enhanced our capital
formation capabilities by doing two
things. First is we refinance the
business at industryleading terms and
secondly we reorganize the company
between a stable co that host all of the
operating assets that have already been
fully developed fully commercialized and
are cash flow producing and a growth co
that host the development engine of the
business at stable co we also engaged in
a recapitalization where we sold down a
90% stake to a group of blue chip
investors further releasing liquidity
for us to redeploy into growth and
accelerate the pace of our developments.
And finally, this is really a people
business where talent is incredibly
important. And we've significantly
enhanced the management team by
appointing a chief investment officer
and helping the management team grow the
talent in development to help accelerate
the pace of our annual computer
editions.
>> Yeah, there's a lot of dynamics going
on, especially given how fast all of
this is moving. And I'm curious based on
all of that movement and velocity, what
do you think is going to happen in the
next couple of years?
>> So looking ahead, one of the things that
we find incredibly exciting in Europe is
the demand for sovereign compute. And if
you take a step back, Europe has one of
the largest infrastructure gaps relative
to other regions. Europe is a $20
trillion economy with 450 million people
that does not have sovereign compute
which essentially means compute hosted
outside the US cloud act by non US or
non-Chinese hyperscalers. The European
Union has a program now that is called
invest AI that is targeting the buildout
of 200 billion euros of local AI
factories which creates a significant
growth driver. And at data for at
Brookfield we want to lead the wave and
are in the process of putting together
strategic consortiums of local champions
and global technology players for us to
create and shape this new trend of
sovereign AI. So, speaking of
hyperscalers, what is the all-in level
of investment that we're looking at? I
think you had told me it was in the
multi-billions just for 2025.
>> Yeah. So, look, since the start of the
year, we've committed €30 billion and
it's only the 10th of September.
>> We got some more time left.
>> Yeah.
>> And I'm also curious, like we've said,
there's been a lot packed in in a pretty
short span. Has there been anything
that's surprised you or something that's
stood out to you in particular? really
getting deeper and deeper into the space
and working with like we said the public
sector, the private sector, different
aspects of the build and different areas
of Brookfield. Has there been anything
that stands out to you?
>> I think the scale of the opportunity is
significantly larger than we had
previously anticipated and to shape AI
infrastructure, three core ingredients
are required and they all need to be put
together at scale at speed all at once.
The first one is you require data
centers and here Brookfield is
incredibly positioned because we have
one of the world's largest data center
platforms with 3 gawatts of total
capacity in a global basis and a great
land bank that exceeds 5 gawatt.
Secondly, its power. This new AI
infrastructure wave is energized by
electrons and power is incredibly
important and Brookfield's global
business in transition that has over 250
gawatts of total set of operating assets
and projects under development is second
to none and gives us a unique
competitive advantage. And lastly, the
scale of the capital that is required
with over $7 trillion of total demand
over the next decade requires investors
that have access to deep capital and the
ability to structure it and deploy it in
a way that lowers the total cost of
funding to the benefit of end users.
>> There's obviously a lot we've learned
about what works, what it takes to make
some of these hypers scale developments
happen. It's not like it gets built in a
day. I'm curious if we've learned
anything about what sometimes we need to
work around to make sure that we build
on time at the scale that we need to.
>> I think the the most important lesson is
power is the most scarce commodity in
the world right now. And to help
illustrate the supply and demand
imbalance, the US economy requires over
100 gawatt of compute over the next
decade. And the electricity transmission
grid can only support 25 gawatt. That
creates a power gap which is a
difference between the demand and the
net supply of 75 gawatt. Given the
scarcity of power, being a good partner
to the utilities to be able to
accelerate the delivery of the power to
our own projects is incredibly
important, but also to work on
additional solutions such as on-site
power and behind the meter technologies
becomes more and more relevant in a
world where time to compute and time to
power is the most important economic
input.
So to finish up this 101 really on AI
infrastructure and what it means,
Ricard, for most people they're
encountering whatever they think of as
AI on their own device, maybe on a
commute, maybe at the office, maybe at
home. What do you think is helpful for
them to know and leave them with? if
that is their entry point about really
everything that's happening behind the
screen.
>> Look, I think that the key takeaway here
is that AI infrastructure represents the
scale of the opportunity is materally
higher than most people anticipate. And
it requires three key ingredients to
succeed, scaled powered land and shell,
scaled power and scaled capital. And
these are the three key strengths of
Brookfield asset management. And that's
why we believe that we can be the
partner of choice of large scale
technology firms, governments, and
enterprises seeking to build out the
compute that is required to power their
companies and their economies. [music]
>> Well, I'm going to take that away. I
know a lot more now than I did when we
started. So, thanks for joining us
today. It was great to have you.
>> Thank you, Meredith.
[music]
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
[music] follow us wherever you listen.
you'll be the first to hear when new
episodes drop.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks, including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation.
