[Music]
Hey everyone, uh Aaron Philback here at
Kai Association, global head of content
strategy, and I'm joined by Hillary
Wick, who's a senior strategist at
PitchBook. Uh we're going to talk about
private credit. There's a lot to talk
about in this space and it's certainly
been an area of focus for us here at KA
as we think through thought leadership
and content that we're putting out in
the industry and I'm excited to uh hear
some expertise and views from Hillary.
So Hillary, thanks so much for uh for
joining the conversation.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for having me.
Well, so Hillary, one of the things that
I've been noticing and and it's almost a
contrarian indicator in some ways as we
go out and we talk at conferences and we
see the topics that people are
interested in, private credit for the
past, I don't know, three or four years
has been one of the topics that people
want to really get into. And it's no
surprise um in some instances the uh
private credit complex has grown quite
dramatically over the past 1015 years
and mostly driven by the direct lending
um growth that we've seen post GFC. But
one of the things that I've noticed and
uh it's more anecdotal at this point,
maybe not as much broadspread, is
there's some questions around how
sustainable is this growth? And we've
also had a bit of a change in terms of
environment um as well. Interest rates
have changed from what they were in the
2010s. We've seen some lightning of
terms um over the past couple of years
and all sorts of stories around all of
this. So, I would just be curious from
your perspective at Pitchbook, you
talked to a lot of different LPs, a lot
of different uh GPS, just your general
observations of what you've seen within
the private credit uh complex so far.
>> Yeah, for sure. Um, you know, just small
bit of history for the the listeners is
that following the GFC, a lot of banks
pulled out of direct lending um
regulatory reasons as well as just
regular risk practices. And so there was
a void and you've got folks like private
equity where part of the value
proposition is the L of the LBO the
leverage and they were looking for
something and there were some happy to
step in. I remember talking to Goldman
right around that time and I didn't I
was more of an equity person so I was
trying to figure out even what this
thing was. Um, you know, flash forward a
bunch of years. It's funny in our data
because most of the data that I report
on through say our fundraising report is
um is private funds only, the draw down
funds. And our data wasn't really
showing this massive ramp up in private
credit. It showed growth, but it wasn't,
you know, a hockey stick. Um, but that's
because, and I know we'll get into this
in a bit, but evergreen funds have been
stepping in here because it's an
interesting match between, you know,
needing to provide liquidity and these
loans paying liquidity. Um, but yeah,
originally this really was a supply and
demand issue where the demand was
stronger than the supply where the
private equity folks needed loans, but
now as you say, I think the the supply
might be way outpacing the demand,
especially in a market where deal
activity is way down. You know, people
find it really hard to conduct a deal if
they can't put a price on something. And
in order to put a price on something,
you need to have some visibility into
the future about what the trade efforts
might look like or um a variety of other
things. And so, you know, deal activity
just screeching to a halt means that
there's not a lot of demand for loans.
Um, the demand is coming more on the
other end of loans that um, you know,
the the the original loan may have
expected that the holding period would
be a normal private equity fund type
holding period and these are extending.
And so what we're hearing is a lot of
the deal activity is refinancing,
changing the terms of loans, um things
like that, which may not play to the
strengths of a fund that is just hoping
to go out and make direct loans um that
are fresh and clean and new.
>> So Hillary, you mentioned the uh the
fund structure element of this as well.
So it's interesting to kind of look at
the wealth um growth in this space and
you know evergreens, semi-liquid funds,
registered funds, whatever label you
want to put um on these different fund
structures have really been dominated to
your point by income generating assets.
So core real estate being one uh private
credit mostly probably direct lending uh
to a large degree being being another.
it seems like in some ways that this is
coming at the point when it's almost
challenging for the industry to digest
uh some of the flows that have been
coming in. So again, you guys have
written on this stuff uh quite a bit.
You wrote a report on evergreen
structures. We publish some of that um
through our own channels as well. But
maybe talk through that kind of
evolution of fund structures that are
more geared towards the individual
investor, the high net worth investor at
a time to your point where it is
becoming a little bit more challenging
to assess the opportunity within private
credit more specifically.
>> Yeah. Another history lesson because I
always have to start at the beginning.
But um you know if you go back is it now
40 to 50 year 40 some years when the
401k came into being and more and more
retirement assets are going into the
control of individuals pensions are
going away. Most of the people I work
with will never see a pension in their
lifetime and so money isn't isn't isn't
being funneled into big pools of assets
that can make big contributions have a
diversified program do vintage
diversification. They're going
individual into individuals hands and a
lot of individuals are lucky to have a
few thousand, let alone the millions it
would take to be making commitments to
these. But uh and pensions at the same
time are going away. They're freezing.
They're de-risking. They're doing LDI.
Um or some of them are closing up
entirely. They're just saying, "Okay,
insurance company, take this over." And
so GPS are looking for capital to to
continue growing, especially the public
GPS who Wall Street now is looking at
them and saying, "Where's my growth
going to come from?" every every year,
year in and year out. So you're seeing
them create more and more products, more
and more structures to try to tap
sources of funding that were not typical
5 10 years ago. And so the idea to go
after the retail assets or private
wealth assets um are was absolutely you
know on the GP side they're looking for
that money. On the LP side though the
the private wealth folks to some extent
might be operating under sort of a FOMO
uh situation where they haven't been had
they haven't had access to this before.
um and now suddenly they can um and but
they often have things that they want as
part of a a fund. They want maybe a
little more liquidity. Um individual
people tend to be a little bit more
nervous about locking themselves up for
10 or 12 years in a fund um than
institutions who even if the CIO leaves
the institution still exists and so you
know it should be able to continue
funding these capital commitments and
things. Um so investing in a a typical
structure even if they could meet the
minimums uh is tough for individuals. Um
so the so so so you've got demand on the
LP side, you got demand on the GP side.
GPS are creating structures, these
evergreen semi-liquid structures to try
to handle some of these these these
demands of the LPS um with with
liquidity. And there's there's other
things too um that that they're doing to
structure these, but um essentially they
are creating structures that hopefully
will satisfy the retail channel um and
hopefully work for the GP2. But there's
there's issues um you know, one of the
biggest ones is as these are very
popular right now. If money comes
flooding in, where's that money going to
go? Everybody should be looking under
the hood to say, wait, is this really
private credit or is it 50% in in liquid
investments which don't have this
supposed ill liquidity premium and um
you may not be getting what you think
you're getting because so for the
interval funds for those who are unaware
the typical structure and there are a
lot of varieties but the typical
structure is every quarter the GP says
in the documents that they will offer 5%
of the total capital of the fund in
liquidity if people want to to pull out.
It's not that my investment I can only
get 5% of it back unless every single
investor is also asking for money back.
But in a typical market environment
where monies are flowing in and out and
income is being produced from these real
estate or private credit assets, there
should be enough to fund any redemptions
that people want. Um there are issues
where what if things aren't normal
conditions? What if everybody wants
their money out at the same time? A lot
of us have concerns about that. The
documents say that they can gate it.
They can say, "Well, you know, we're
going to allow the 5% or some in some
cases they have the capability of
saying, "No, we're not giving anything
back. This is a really bad time to be um
making this fund less liquid or to try
to sell assets to fund redemptions.
We're going, you know, we're going to
lean on the semi of the semi-liquid
aspect of this investment." Um,
I feel like I just said a lot, but I'm
not sure I said everything I meant to
say. So,
>> no, no, no, no.
>> Yeah.
>> I I I think the other thing, and you you
mentioned this as well, like, you know,
so there there's a lot of concern about
the uh liquidity lever of actually
getting your money back, but then
there's also the question of uh actually
investing, like what is the fund
actually investing in at the end of the
day. And to your point, it could be
liquid assets and and you're not getting
true private credit. On the other hand,
if it is true private credit, you've got
to put that money to work. So what what
does that mean for actually um you know
if you're making loans you've got to
make loans quickly um in order to be
fully invested. So I don't know if
you've given thought to that as as well
in terms of the if you're going fully
illquid um in an evergreen format. What
does that look like? But I'm just
curious on that.
>> Well, I'd say a nobody is going fully
illquid in an evergreen format. You
know, you got to have some sort of
liquidity buffer. Um there are two types
of these funds. Um, the interval fund is
an actual structure as governed by the
SEC, like it's actually named on the SEC
website. Um, and that one makes a lot of
sense for LPs. They can ask for money
back. But it's not a great fit for say
private equity where you buy a whole
company. You can't just sell some shares
to let somebody out. You have to sell a
whole company. And that may not be the
right time to do that. And so um there
are what are called tender offer funds
where it's more in the hands of the GP
to say typically we will try to provide
liquidity but um we will offer it at
moments like maybe we have just sold a
company because it was the right time to
sell that company. We'll reach out to
the investors and say would you like
this capital back or would you like to
roll it? Um and so that makes a lot more
sense for equity structures at least on
the interval fund side. if you've got
private credit or you've got real
estate, you've got the opportunity to
kick off income. But again, in bad
times, you know, some of these um
private credit loans may turn into pick
loans and there isn't liquidity. There's
just more debt being piled on. The other
thing to think about is are they making
um are they making loans that are direct
like, okay, we're borrowing money, have
your money, or are they doing revolvers?
Are they doing something where it's up
to the to the borrower to decide if
they're going to take that capital or
not? And so that requires a whole
another liquidity equation. So we're
seeing sleeves in in most of these funds
that are more liquid than what you would
get if you were doing a straight draw
down fund where the GP didn't have to
worry about monies flowing in and out.
Um and you know some of them there
there's the um the private credit ETF I
think and I haven't looked deeply into
it but my understanding is it's like
they're calling it an ETF. They're
calling it private credit, but it's like
15% which is the SEC um rule around
liquidity for funds that trade like
that. So definitely people should be
looking under the hood to see exactly
what they're getting.
>> Yeah. So Hillary, may maybe put on your
old LP uh hat on and thinking about due
diligence on on these questions. And
again, I'd love for you to kind of tie
the the fund structure element of this,
given this is where a lot of the
momentum has been for private credit
with private credit itself and and
things that LPs, investors should be
looking for, questions they should be
asking, considerations at the end of the
day as they start to allocate to private
credit in 2025 and beyond.
>> There's so many of these questions. I I
I sketched out a list. I think it was at
least 14 or 15 long, but I'll try to hit
some high points. Um, first one's going
to be fees. How are they charged? What
what are being charged? Um, you might
look and see, oh, a management fee is
one and a half percent. That's great,
but what else are you being charged? Uh,
especially the smaller the amount of
capital you're putting in, you're put in
different share classes that pay
different amounts. Um, so just because
you can have access to these funds
doesn't necessarily mean you should do
it. Um, so absolutely be looking at
those. On the other side of fees are the
incentive fees. Some of these evergreen
structures are allowed to do incentive
fees. I think only if they have
qualified purchasers, though there's
some exceptions to that as well. Um, and
if they're doing incentive fees, my
understanding, and again, I haven't done
a deep deep dive into the weeds of some
of these terms, is that they can they
are taking these incentive fees on an
annual basis. And they are taking
incentive fees on illquid investments.
At least in a draw down fund, they
didn't take their incentive until they
sold a company, there is a market price
on that asset. But if they're taking
incentive fee on illquid investment on a
valuation that the GP itself came up
with, we've got a serious conflict of
interest here. Um, so, you know, if you
are, you know, if if listeners are also
institutional investors considering
these funds, which there's some good
reasons for that as well, um, they
really need to be thinking about and
talking to these GPS about their
valuation policies. Um, you know, even
if valuations are audited, I it was
ridiculously late in my career that I
realized that um auditing a fund doesn't
mean that they're saying this is a good
valuation. It's saying they followed the
process. And so the process might be,
hey, go look for the most, you know, the
the the company out there with the
highest multiple and we're going to
value our company based on that. and the
auditor can say great, that's our, you
know, you followed the process and the
LPs are just at the mercy of whatever
the GP came up with. So, you know, the
one thing that is really positive of the
draw down structure is at least they
can't um can't take their incentives
until there's somebody else has actually
said we are going to pay you this much
for this company.
Um, so yeah, so we talked a little bit
already about liquidity pro provisions.
find out what they are, how they're
going to handle liquidity in different
scenarios. You know, a lot of them right
now are probably saying, "Hey, money's
pouring in. It'll be easy to meet
liquidity." Or income's coming off and
we're, you know, charging 8%, so paying
a 5% every quarter shouldn't be a
problem. Um, but what are they planning
to do in a downturn? What are they going
to do if um if there's a run on the
bank? uh and we've we saw it um a few
years ago in some in some real estate
funds and they did gate I expected it
actually to be a bigger scandal and
cause more of the private wealth channel
to say oh wait you know what's going on
here but it turned out it seemed like it
wasn't a lot of American investors that
were pulling out and so they didn't feel
the pinch um like the folks that were
trying to get out did um conflicts of
interest if these fund managers are
managing different fund structures where
are they getting their money from are
they no longer incentivized um in their
draw down funds. So I'm worried even if
I was committing only to draw down funds
if my fund manager is branching out into
other strategies because the draw down
funds um two and 20 that 20% may not be
buying their Ferraris anymore. You know
it might be coming from a lot of steady
income coming off of these evergreen
funds and I want to make sure that
they're aligned with my interests. So
trying to work your way through what all
these um conflicts are uh on that side.
But then there's the conflicts of what
if I buy the same asset and know I am
talking more private equity. If I'm
buying the same asset in a draw down
fund and an evergreen fund, maybe it's a
tender offer fund. When do you sell it?
Do you sell it when you're at an an
artificial end of life of a of a draw
down fund or do you sell it when the
evergreen fund might see it's the best
time? And you know who who do you think
of? A lot of people think of the front
end. Okay, great. I asked the question
about conflicts. They take this asset
and they um they put however much is is
deserved in the Evergreen fund based on
its size versus how much should go into
the other fund. Cool. They handle the
conflicts, but I'm worried about the
exit. I'm worried about what they're who
who they're going to listen to. who are
they going to sell it at the right
moment which may not be the right moment
for the draw down fund or are they going
to sell it you know at some artificial
time because it's the time to sell it.
Um what else could we talk about the um
oh well okay so one is most of these
private credit funds because they got
started sometime post GFC um some of
them have that full history uh 15 years
or so but a lot of them don't most of
those people have not managed through a
crisis so do they know about private
credit in a in a bad time do they know
about private credit when you know
liquidity dries up when um you know
things are getting distressed. Are they
the kind of fund manager that's going to
work alongside the private equity
company? Uh or are they do they have
enough scale and enough capabilities to
take over the company if needed? Um
depending on, you know, what level of of
debt they have. So, you know, you you
really need to probe into that if
they're talking about um you know, if
they're in a fund structure and the firm
itself is new enough that they've
actually never had to go through it. Um,
hypotheticals are great, but it'd be
great if you could find people with the
experience who actually have done this
and had to work their way through it.
Um, what's the fund planning to target
for its investments? That's going to,
you know, it goes back to that liquid
liquid versus illquid, but also what I
was talking about earlier. If you do a
revolver, that's going to be a very
different fund profile. They going into
um floating rate or are they going to
fixed rate? you know, these these are
general private credit questions, but
you know, it's just as important on the
on the evergreen side to be aware that
uh or try to find out what they're
doing. Most um most GPS will have a
investment policy that you could drive a
truck through. Um so, if you can try to
nail that them down to try to have a
little bit more certainty about your
what you're investing in, that could be
a good idea. So, I could go on and on.
Um here's but and I have so uh why don't
we focus in on on either another topic
or maybe something that I've already
said.
>> No, no, I think uh I think all of that's
uh all that's great. Uh Hillary, in
terms of maybe final question for you in
terms of private credit, I mean anything
else that you think investors should be
looking out for or anything you guys are
paying attention to at PitchBook in
terms of areas of research within this
space just given how uh fast it's
growing and the level of interest that's
been there.
>> Yeah. Um, so our parent company is
Morning Star and the two of us are both
working on what we're calling this
public private convergence. Morning Star
is rolling out interval fund ratings.
Um, and we've been in contact with them
and helping advise how they're going to
do that because they're talking to fund
managers they typically haven't talked
to before. You know, KKR was not in
their in their normal call list. Um, and
so those will be rolling out. The first
ratings will come out in the third
quarter. uh we are putting out more
research and we're most important
getting data piped into our platform on
all these fund structures. So we're
getting a lot of questions right now
about market size and about performance
and about fund flows and we will be able
to answer those. We're not quite there
yet. So as you say we put out a report
last fall called the evergreen evolution
that was very manually put together. One
of my colleagues put a lot of time and
effort trying to find every fund and
then go to their tear sheets and pull
all this information together. We're
going to have that live hopefully by the
end of the year. Um, I feel like there
was one other thing I was going to
mention. Oh, on the due diligence side,
I would also mention that I put out a
piece a couple years ago that was called
an LP's guide to manager selection. Um,
and that walks through a sixp framework
because it's always got to be a P
framework if you're going to have a
framework. Um, but it talks about the
people which includes the firm and the
team. It talks about the philosophy and
the process. Those are all all six of
those P's I put in there with a lot of
um sub ideas of what to to think about.
So if anybody's trying to figure out how
to diligence these that framework really
should work for any fund manager or any
uh fund type that you're looking at to
hopefully give it give your idea give
your qualitative assessment particularly
um maybe round it out a little bit. So,
and I plan to sort of rewrite that
hopefully this year if I find the time
with an evergreen perspective in mind in
terms of acting asking about these
conflicts of interest, asking about
liquidity and come up with some some
more questions that are targeted towards
this specific area.
>> Well, we we certainly look forward to uh
to seeing the update. I remember when
you published that it was a great uh a
great piece and uh we're also certainly
aligned on that convergence. that's uh
it's a continuing to be a trend that's
uh disrupting our industry and exciting
but also challenging I think for a lot
of a lot of investors. Um so Hillary,
thank you so much for for sharing your
thoughts and and insights. Uh always a
pleasure and thanks for all you do for
Kaya. Uh looking forward to continuing
the conversation some other time.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for having me.
[Music]
