Today our guest is
Jean-Louis Perriè, who was the judge of
trial of November 13 which lasted more than
10 months, notably with Salah Abdlam.
You will see and hear a lot of
things never heard before about this trial.
You meet him, Salab of Islam
It seems you're already going to...
put back in its place.
I'm simply saying what the
texts. His identity completes the name he
prom of his parents of the profession and there
He said I have ceased all activity since
that I am a fighter for the State
Islamic.
And that casts a chill. that I feel
An icy chill filled the room. They
They're shocked, that's all. And I'll start again.
my notes, well, I had noted
interim.
Hello everyone and welcome to
legend. Today, our guest is
Jean-Louis Perriè, who was the judge of
trial of November 13th including
Salah of Islam. He was the one who
chief judge who handled the trial. He
has had a distinguished career as a judge. He will
to tell us about the things he experienced,
that he saw and heard more
amazing. He has had a huge career. He
agreed to tell us everything he
was also able to see during the trial of the 13th
November, which lasted more than 10 months with
2500 people who were civilians.
Uh, you're going to see and hear a lot.
things never heard before about this trial.
In any case, just before we begin,
I wanted to thank you for being there
every week, on Wednesdays and Fridays
and on Sundays. We'll give you three
interviews, three documentaries on the
gendes with this whole team. On
try to suggest topics
Always different, always surprising
or exclusive ones that we don't really have
heard before. Um, feel free to contact us
put in if you have any ideas
comments for future guests.
We watch a lot and we get inspired
a lot of what you can tell us
say. Well, in any case, don't hesitate either
to like the video about SEO,
It's very useful to us. Uh, just before
To begin this program, I'll...
reminds us that we are available as a podcast
audio on Spotify, on Dieser, on Apple
Podcast, Amazon Podcast, on the four
audio podcast platforms. YOU
can you listen to us just in version
sound then when you are in
journey, if you are traveling by car, in
motorcycle, if you are on the bus, you
can you put us in the evening or in
cooking, while working, you
You can add the legends. Thank you all
In the case of creating legends, the first
podcast from France. And on YouTube, you
You can also subscribe to our channel
YouTube. You are, uh, 100, uh, 150,000
200,000 subscribers every month. SO
There you go, thank you very much for all of that.
Just before starting the show with
Jean-Louis Perz, who was a judge in the trial of
November 13th, you will see the show
truly exceptional. I wanted to tell you
remember that we're all going on tour
together. It's going to be called the legend
tour with this whole team at
legend. We decided to book some
rooms, the largest rooms of
France in 16 cities. We're going to do 18
dates, since we will be doing two dates in Paris.
two dates in Brussels, at Forêt
National for Brussels at Adidas
Arena in Paris. We invited guests who
have marked the chain and if you have
would like to spend, uh, 2.5 hours with us, 3 hours
during a show on the central stage where
guests will come to tell stories
completely new anecdotes. There will be
No phones allowed in the room. you will not be able
filming, we won't be able to see any
the outside. So if you want
To participate, you can come with your
children, with your parents, you can
come with everyone. You can
Book your tickets at légende-t-our.fr.
There will be lots of guests. There will be six
guests who will be doing all the dates
with us. Philippe Box, forensic pathologist
and so forth. They will all be there. And there
will also have guests, artists who
will be there on every date. We're going to move on to
Montpellier, in Nice. If you want
Take your seats, I'll put you all in.
the dates that are displayed. There's everything
in the description as well. Uh, we're going to...
passing through Strasbourg, Dijon, we will be at
Rensier, in Rouan, we're going to Nant, to
Bordeaux, in many cities. It is
starting in October 2026. I will put you
all the dates and everything is there on
legend-our.fr. Thanks anyway, uh, for
to take your seats, if there are many of you. On
sees that most of the rooms are already
almost full. So thank you for being
there. And now we're off with
Jean-Louis Perz, who was the judge of the 13th
november. So, regarding the attacks of the 13th
November 2015, notably with Salab
of Eslam. He's going to tell us about the trial.
everything he could see and hear
incredible about the legends. It is
party.
Good morning. Okay, my name is Jean-Luc
Father, I was president of the court
of the court and I notably presided over the
trial of the November 13, 2015 attacks
in Paris and Saint-Denis.
Well, welcome Jean-Louis. I you
Take the clap. THANKS. Happy
to meet you. Thank you for coming in
interview. Um, have you ever seen a
Legendary interview. You see how
It's happening.
Yes, yes, yes, yes. I've seen that before with
colleagues.
With colleagues.
Yes,
We received Jacques Des here.
Quite. Maybe
I met again recently
because you worked at
Marseille, we'll come back to that later.
That's where your accent comes from.
Absolutely. Well, I'm from Marseille, I
I was born in Marseille, I grew up in
Marseille. I am proud to be
Marseilles residents despite their setbacks
the team currently and I have done my
studies and I started my career
indeed, first as a judge
the court in Auagne, it's right next door
and then investigating judge in Marseille.
You were the one who was judged.
for the trial on November 13th. We
will speak in a little while. We're going to
your complete journey if you want
GOOD.
Yeah. Just how long did this last?
trial ? I think it was almost
one month. It lasted 10 months.
It lasted 10 months. We started on the 8th
September 2021 and we finished on June 29th
2022. There you have it.
We'll come back to that later, but I think that
It was yours. You wanted to leave for the
retirement, you want to stop at
last minute. We'll tell you, here,
Do you want to do that?
Let's say I wasn't very far from
of retirement. And when I
indeed proposes this trial of
presiding over this trial, it's late 2019.
So the end of his career is quite
close but not right away, not for
Right away, then. And well, I just
time to think about it for a few
days nonetheless and of
It gives you time to
Yes, yes, I asked for one, I wasn't
candidate.
You have to know that we are in the era
about fifteen court presidents
of foundation and that several are emerging
The trial of the very important
attacks of January 7th therefore
Charlie Hebdo and then Father Cacher, there you go.
Montrouge on November 13th there is also the
July 14, 2000 - 2016 in Nice and
other trials, however, regarding the attack on
Talis, we all know that, all these
Presidents who are there, well, we'll, he'll
We'll all have to go one after the other.
the others to preside over trials which
They are impressive, that's for sure.
Because the stakes are enormous, we
knows there will be pressure
media and public opinion very
important. So nobody is really
very keen to be the one to preside over these
trial. So, well, I'm expecting...
I wasn't a candidate, it was offered to me.
It's hard to refuse.
Yeah, that's really it.
Yes, because it's an honor when
Same here. We trust you.
The backpack was quite heavy.
Yes, that's it. It's more than just a bag
back. There, indeed, is everything.
the equipment. Uh, yes, but from the other side
Well, I wasn't expecting that already.
We ask ourselves, will I be at the
height because presiding over such a trial
uh, the file is for having
two or three figures, there are 500
500 men, that's, uh, if we...
stack them on top of each other, we are
uh, up to the 17th floor of the new
courthouse. Take a look.
Uh, there are over 300 lawyers for the party
civil, 40 defense lawyers, of
dozens and dozens of witnesses, uh
approximately a thousand police officers
around the palace, uh, during the trial
For, uh, yeah. roughly. Yeah. At
At the very beginning, in any case, they are very
very many for, uh
to prevent there actually being a
Another attack, what else? So, there you have it.
We know there's a huge amount at stake, and I
Personally, I ask myself, do I
Am I up to the task? Am I at
the author and especially also
I will maintain my impartiality
because we were all affected by this
which happened on November 13th. GOOD
Sure, whether we're in Paris or elsewhere,
The whole of France was impacted. Good,
psychologically it was still
It's really tough. So we ask ourselves, is it
I'm going to be... we know we're going to have some...
The accused? Well, they're not...
second-stringers, people who are
They were quite involved, though. There is Salam
d'lam, there is notably Mohamed Abrini,
that man in the hat who will
to participate, who was supposed to participate
to the Brussels attacks of the 22nd
March 2016. So, we have to do some...
very serious people. So, there you have it, is it
that I will not lose my impartiality
with regard to those people? And seen from
The impact, that is.
And you published a book that
It's called Intimate Conviction, it's at
Flamarion, there you have it, the memoirs of a...
judge of the case dominicier at the trial
November 13th, Jean-Louis Perriè. If
You want to go get it, I'll...
I will put the link in the description of
the YouTube video and audio podcast on
Spotify, 10er, Apple Podcast, Amazon
Podcast to find the link in the
episode description also for the
order directly, you tell a
Your journey, huh? It's the
first person and you end up
the trial too with
quite
full of details.
We'll come back to that in 2 minutes.
So, what is the role of a judge in
Do you already have a good grasp of the basics? What is
What is your precise role? There is already
several judges. Okay, the judge
instruction, for example, is the one
who will lead an investigation and who will
So, to have some powers after all
It's very important to put people on
who will be able to tap their phone lines?
Effectively
even install cameras
surveillance at the suspects' homes and
who will therefore try to elucidate a
criminal case or a case
large-scale. That's the judge.
instruction. It is a judge who
prepared. Then there's the judge, everything
short. So I'm only talking about criminal law.
Civil law, civil rights, that doesn't work for me.
Instruction is preparation. Bulk,
It's the preparation, it's what we
he calls it, he is conducting an investigation
preparatory. That is to say, he prepares everything
The case file for the judges behind whom
will judge the case and all the
elements. So, am is upstream.
It's upstream.
We have the correctional judge. Okay, that
This is for matters concerning
crimes, thefts, petty trafficking
of narcotics, the violence that the
seats.
So, the assizes court deals with crimes
crimes that are punishable by penalties
the strongest, that is to say the
murders, rapes, armed robberies
and so forth. Drug trafficking
very large scale as well, the cases
of terrorism, of course.
If you were famous, we'll talk about it.
but in the trial of November 13, you
He made jokes at times, there
two or three sentences that were
reprises, but I imagine there have been some
others over 10 months. Uh, that's necessary.
Be careful when you are a judge. At
On the contrary, it is necessary to show the
judged that it is necessary to go.
Well, you have to be human. It's necessary
to be good. We judge humans, we judge
people who, uh, uh, who have, to whom we
can criticize appalling things
as with the attacks of the 13th
November, it was about co-authors or
accomplices, terrorists who are
all died during these attacks which
were neutralized or who were
jump, what. But anyway, there's something
something serious, but we will judge the
humans very quickly, we'll see.
And the real advantage of this
The trial of November 13th is that he has
lasted a long time. that we were able to actually
to have much more human relationships
with people. So, I don't know if
I made some jokes, I had a few
words from time to time to relax a
The atmosphere was a little lacking because it was
It was heavy, wasn't it? Often. GOOD
Sure, given what's at stake,
We'll talk about it later, but you see
the photos of all the when when
There's a trial, we need to see the
photo of the body and you see the
difficult images. Yeah. So, we can
I've already seen the photos, the
difficult images, but we'll also go on
The places, that is. If one is well-informed, at
time, the prosecutor will systematically
on site. As soon as there is, as soon as there is
a suspicious death on the road
In public, there is a prosecutor who...
travels to see and to give the
instructions to the police, to the first
speakers. The investigating judge can
Do it if it is seized very quickly.
What ?
You could see psychologists or
not ? Because after a while it
The images were going to be there, it wasn't
harmless.
Yes. Yes. Well, then we'll blend in.
As they say, right?
Yeah, but at the beginning
Oh, well, not at first. Well
At 25, you arrive and you see some...
people do.
Yes, well, we're somewhat prepared because
that we have gone to school for the judiciary,
We were able to witness autopsies.
It's part of the training when you
is in Bordeaux. So at the National School
In administration, one can attend to
autopsies, we can uh
precisely to be confronted with this kind of
Things are still a bit complicated.
We do internships in the police force, in
gendarmerie, in detention center. We're going to
prison to see a little bit how it works
is happening. We are
You're going around in circles, pretty much.
we do, we go around to all the
what speakers?
There is a school for magistrates, he
There's only one in France.
There is only one. National school. This
So what did you do?
the era in Bordeaux. She is in Bordeaux
always.
How many years of study are required to become
uh
So, uh, it takes 4 years.
by right. You need 4 years of law plus
uh, possibly some preparation.
Currently
it's more or less mandatory to do a
prep. Well, back then there was
No preparatory classes, so it was those 4 years.
It's a master's degree. So now if
We say Master One if you like. Okay, at
The era is the same as a master's degree.
Me, I have a master's degree. There you go, that's it.
That.
And then, however, there's a competition
national
uh, which is quite difficult, we
Don't say it. Yes. Well, uh, there is
Back then, if you will, we had, uh, we
there were approximately 1800 to 2000 candidates
For 150 positions, that's all.
Yeah. It's a competition that
is equivalent to ENDAT, the school
national administration, the school
national tax system for
to become effective, therefore there is, there is
these three major schools which are
which are still quite difficult.
The police commissioner school too
who the competition is a competition
national. So. You take an oath
like lawyers. What does that mean?
to take an oath ? We always see I
takes the oath. What does that mean?
say ?
We take an oath that is even more
important than that of lawyers because
that we have, we are at the service of
the State. So there is, uh, there is
a prefect taking an oath, that is to say, one
then embarks on a very
official by raising the right hand, one
is in court attire before the
first president of the Court
appeal. Well, we're sure to be fine.
to have a certain code of ethics, to
to judge honestly, objectively
to be conscientious, to be serious,
to be rigorous, that's it, and to keep the
confidentiality of decisions. So.
Before we talk about anecdotes, who chooses
who is the judge appointed to a case
? Tell me, you were offered
for November 13th, for example,
when you are offered something in Marseille, that
So who gets to choose? We've already been appointed
by decree of the president of the
Republic that we resign ourselves to through the
ministers. We are appointed to a position
because we are state agents, after all. SO
to receive instruction in Marseille,
one must be appointed juice of instruction to
Marseille. We make a request and then
So then there's a whole mechanism of
appointment. And once we are, uh
Judge of instruction on site, what I tell you
As I was saying earlier, we have some t
where we will be on duty on such and such a day
and on such and such a date. It is Judge X who is
on duty on January 13th, let's say
For example, uh, who's going to collect all
the files that will be opened by
the public prosecutor.
That is to say, the prosecutor of the
Republic, he will follow at the beginning then
a criminal investigation or
correctional and at some point
So, in criminal matters, it's
obligatory, he will have to ask for the
appointment of a judge. And here is the
president who appoints, the president of the
The tribunal that will appoint him and so that
so that it is faster and more efficient and
More objectively, we have these towers of
permanence. So, as a result, it's going to fall
at random on such and such and such and such and such
depending on the date.
But not on the big trials, then.
Treasury trials for the trials for the
A trial is different. For the
In court, we can't impose anything already, uh
In principle. So, I was...
asked if I would agree to chair the
process. I was asked who it is.
? This is the president
He is the first president of the court
appeal.
Ah, the first president.
Yes, because the president of the court
The assize court is necessarily a magistrate
of the Court of Appeal. That is to say, there is
It's complicated to understand one side.
It's complicated. Yeah.
Well, it's not that easy.
Let's say up top, there's the courtyard of
appeal. There's only one court that
says the law. Those are the magistrates.
the oldest, the most
experienced people who are at this house do
No investigation. They simply
verify that the judges below have
applied the law. Below, there is
Courts of appeal. There are about thirty
of courts of appeal in France. Course
appeals from Paris in particular which has a
quite important spring And below
there are courts of appeal, there are tribunals
They're called judicial courts.
In the courts, you
You have prosecutors, judges
instruction. courts and judges
correctional courts that judge the minors
offenses and at the court of appeal you will
to have
it is already an appeals court
for the offenses, but there's also something
next door is called the Assize Court
which is a jurisdiction somewhat
particular that only one has per
department which is chaired by a
A magistrate of the court is a president.
or an advisor with assessors and
jurors
the famous jurors
That's it, it's like in the United States.
It's people, it could be you.
Hop bakery, you receive a
summons. It's nobody
major. That's it. He's the only one. It's necessary
to have, one must indeed have more
23 years old and if you are over
Now, I believe it's 70 years old.
You can request an exemption. But
Okay, there you go.
And no criminal record. Ah,
No locker.
Obviously,
No locker. One must not be either
neither police officer, nor gendarme, nor clerk. He
I don't think you have the right to refuse.
Oh no, it's an obligation that
weighs on every citizen. And if you don't
Don't show up, you risk...
heavy fine.
It's a random draw.
It is a draw that is established at
starting from the electoral lists. There is a
First, then there's more, I'm not going to
To go into detail, there is
several, there are several steps but
we don't use the electoral list. No
No
It's definitely a deliberate choice. There you go, we'll take
the electoral lists, we make a
first a first sorting, a second sorting,
Then after a day we are summoned, we will
summon 40 jurors to be part of
of a court session.
And so you, when you give them
Speak up, there really are people
who have never done that.
It could be anyone, a hairdresser.
We have craftsmen, we have nurses,
we have retirees, we have retirees
workers, doctors of all kinds. SO
uh, when we receive them, when they are
Summoned, they still have the
possibility of requesting an exemption.
Okay, I talked about age, but by
For example, I once granted a
dispenses to a doctor who is all alone
in a zone. Well, I
I can't, so we give him one
exemption.
A craftsman who is all alone and who, if he
Part 15 days or 3 weeks, that's it.
The company is sinking. Okay, we're giving out
Exemptions are still granted, but otherwise it's
OBLIGATORY.
employee, sorry, for an employee, uh, his
The boss is forced to accept.
Absolutely.
Absolutely. For an employee, it's a
obligation. Wait, but if
so we explain it to them because often
They come to us and say, "Yes, but my
"Boss, he doesn't want to." I said, "But
your boss, uh,
He has no choice, he's not going to pay you.
we will give you compensation
because it's still paid for by
the State." There you go, it's not a huge amount but
It's still compensated, though.
And a trial that lasts 10 months, like the
November 13th, a juror who is going to be selected,
that's the
There's no jury here. So, that's
party. Yeah.
For the most serious cases, then
terrorism or other related cases
very, very serious organized crime, we
wanted to protect the lawyers who had been
effectively threatened in the
In the 1980s, the first trials of
terrorism in particular
implies involving the extreme left.
Finally, some of the people who were
They're really, really involved in this.
There had been threats against jurors
and so, they didn't have them, we had them
spared, and therefore for these cases, he
There are no more jurors, that's all. When you are
The judge in the end is, there is, there is
no one above you, that is to say
It's up to you and nobody can
to go back to your uh
So no
No, because then there's a call, he
there is an appeal
that is to say, we decide in
first instance and then after good
before the assize court, he can there
to have an appeal before another court
of the assize court that will judge the man but of
independently. I can receive
no instructions for example from
first president of the court of appeal or
of the president or the prosecutor or of the
President of the Court of Cassation
sure to go into such a place in such a place
situ
In one direction or not. And you already have
You've been under pressure, you know, so what can we say?
Don't say? Besides, you tell me if
It's not possible to answer that.
But are there already some I know
not politicians, but the great
mafia bosses who called you in
telling you that you're wrong?
No, it doesn't exist. I believe that
it's a little bit in the fantasy of
uh, people from the public opinion, but
It's much more, uh, it's much more
even more treacherous if that happens.
That is to say, uh, the judge when he
is an investigating judge, for example, one
the example of the investigating judge, he
necessarily works with
police officers or gendarmes, those who are
subject to a hierarchy. And at one point
given, if
the hierarchy
police or gendarmerie wishes
to protect someone, she can
Effectively
give instructions saying "Well
You're not going to conduct a search there.
there you are going to do
"A much lighter investigation." Okay,
But we don't know that, and that's...
extremely rare also because especially
In our time, it will become known.
This could have happened for years.
indeed, uh, once again...
directors of major departments who have
wanted to protect such and such a thing.
And just like in the movies, sometimes you
he said, "Hey, we need to relax this guy."
because in fact it's an indicator. I
I don't know how it works because
Sometimes there are signs with the
police, so they have to be released because
that in fact they pretended to
go back or is it
that's it again, that's something else
thing. Yes. That can happen, that's what can happen.
From time to time, but perhaps more
at the level, maybe not at the level of the
of the criminal court. That's
It's complicated because once they
They arrive in court, we can't
to relax someone who was
completely involved. However, this
which can happen during the investigation
that there is a service that comes to say good
Well, there he is, he has
Given some information, it is necessary to...
Evidence as well. So, maybe at this
at that moment will be a little inclined to
release if he is in pre-trial detention
A little earlier than expected, actually.
We could potentially do that.
We're going to talk about the big cases, but
Last question before. Do you
have you ever been afraid of making a mistake when
Are you, uh, handing down a sentence?
Are you perhaps saying that
I send someone, an innocent person, to prison.
? Is there any doubt? Does that bother you?
has it ever happened to you to go to bed at night?
and to tell you "I may be
deceived
If we have doubt, we do not condemn
Because that's the principle. The profession
The judge's role is to doubt, right? Already,
There you go, we have to start there.
The job of a judge is to doubt. And
When you have too much doubt, well, you
It does not condemn. So, it's
Much simpler. We don't have that
a problem of conscience saying "Ah, I have
Maybe condemned, that puts
SO
like those condemned to death at
United States where there are only after
It all depends on what we hear.
by making a mistake because
that one can have can commit a
"A good faith error." That's what we have.
a number of elements at the moment
three or four witnesses who point the finger
someone. Well, that's fine, and these four
Witnesses 2 or 3 years later he said "Oh well no
Ultimately, we were wrong. SO
I made a mistake.
because of you
because of these three or four witnesses, if he
That one will be in good faith. Well then
I
You must forgive me for that too.
That happens, people, people who do
U-turns finally, who are making U-turns. Yes.
Well, fortunately, there's more than that.
those elements. Okay, let me give you an example.
A bit simple, but oh well, if we have
we're going to do some testimonies
attention. There must be when
even physical evidence, elements
evidence, initial elements of
Proof of what?
And people who seem totally
innocent when they are completely
guilty. Have you seen any or really
you if you had crossed paths with them in the
street, you would have said they have a head of
kind. That's what I was saying all along.
At the moment, we have some who have who in
a face, a fasè that makes them
to present themselves entirely as
Angels, huh. Good,
there was a serial number there, Italian there
What was it called, I don't remember?
what his name was, he had a
Angel face, what else? Indeed, me
I had seen it; there was a program
Made between the cooked lake, we could see it.
He looked completely normal, everything
smiling, friendly, kind and all that.
He had killed his father and mother, he had
murdered I don't know how many
people. It was a horror, that
kind.
You watch the excused ones enter,
all those shows when you see
Sometimes, your files, it happens to you
Well, I have some, I participated in one
party show, kitchen already set up.
Uh yeah, I think that was pretty much me.
That's quite interesting. That's enough
Well, well built, I guess. It is
You were at my utmost urgency,
You'll explain it to us in a moment, won't you?
you served as an assessor at the assizes
Also. stifled, moreover. You have a
woman who killed her husband, uh, and who will
to be acquitted afterwards. You can be born one of
My first ones, well I think it's the
first assize court case in which I
participates. So I must be 25 or 26 years old.
That is, when one is in a
court, uh, we're going to sit like
assessor. All the magistrates
from the court, the judges' seat will
to serve as an assessor in progress
of the seat. Okay, and so here I come with
a young colleague who for him it was
the first one too, and we are received by the
first the president of the court
of the seat which we do not present several
session files. And there, this first
The file, it's a woman who uh
which explains why she was pushed to
by her husband who was a type
Absolutely appalling.
not so much in terms of violence
physical but behavioral
psychological.
He was a really awful guy.
which is described that way even by its
even his own family, including those around him.
That is to say, his family who
comes to tell the audience who with the
women
who is coming, who is going to come to the hearing
Well, give it back to us because
our brother, our son, he deserved that
That. I'm fine. So what is this?
A scene of argument that will last
A good time. One evening, the man will
She goes to bed upstairs, she broods, she
She thought about it, then she made up her mind, she went
look for the rifle that is in the
garage, she'll go hard, she'll look for it during
a moment. The cartridges are
not in the same place, so she
found in the dining room. For that
that premeditation had been retained
because she had time to
to reflect on.
It's not a fit of anger.
It's not a fit of anger. She puts it well.
She goes upstairs and puts it on him.
two bullets in the back.
He dies while he sleeps
and she immediately calls the
police to say "Come quickly, I
"I just killed my husband."
She admits to the facts, the case is seized
rifle, the cartridges there. She is
guilty. She is guilty. She said
herself during the investigation, she
It happens in the same way at the assizes court.
And what happens here is that the sound
The lawyer pleads very well, but he doesn't
does not plead for acquittal. But by
On the other hand, the jurors felt that, given the
the behavior her husband had exhibited, uh,
she didn't really intend to
kill him. Except that, yes, she had everything
made to kill him. And so, he decides
that she is not guilty. And that was
a true judicial scandal. Well, I
thinks that this provocative woman who has
I didn't even understand at the end when we were
back in the courtroom, even his
the lawyer didn't understand when we said
atilement. Well, I don't think she killed him.
someone else afterwards, but anyway
when we started for the first time,
It seems that this is the first one
first time the first time is the
harder after you've killed
Having someone makes things easier afterwards. Good,
I don't know, I have no idea, I don't have
the experience
there you go, but anyway, that was it.
gave a bit of a green light to
people who would have liked to
get rid of their spouse a little
Easy, right? There, you said it's
the jurors who decided to leave her,
but the judge just takes the
reactions from the lives of the jurors or
Is it the jury who decides?
We all decide. At the time, there was
now it's not the same name but at
At the time, there were nine jurors.
and three judges, and each one has the same
weight and we vote by secret ballot
that we put in an urn at the end of the
deliberation. That's your secret.
That is to say, the end of the trial, we meet again
in a room, the deliberation room
And we discuss, everyone gives their opinion.
Yes, in my opinion he is guilty. No, for
He's not mine, and so on and so forth.
Everyone gives their opinion. The president, good
I spoke last so as not to
to influence the jurors and at the end of
We'll say yes or no to this discussion.
on a guilty piece of paper, no
guilty. So, we put it in a ballot box.
and in the end we take the spoils. And for uh
for the effective protection of
For the accused, a qualified majority is required.
at the time. So we needed 8 votes, uh
out of 12 to declare someone guilty.
Basically, it only took five votes, five
names to declare someone has left.
And what happened, that is to say, there
had five juries
who estimated,
there were at least five juets because
that I no longer have the name in mind and then in
The more it's shrouded in secrecy, the better.
That. There were at least five juets who
were
who said "No, she is not
"Guilty." There you have it.
And you, your vote counts
double in quotation marks. No
No, no, it's the same vote for everyone.
world. It's for everyone, like
the jurors.
Oh yeah, that's very democratic, huh?
It's something that has existed since the
revolution. That's it.
Yeah, well that's, uh, that goes back to the
revolution, since before it was the
royal justice and all. We introduce
so the jurors at the time of the
revolution and we introduce this
procedure which is oral because at
Back then they couldn't read or
to write. So we bring in the witnesses.
the experts, all those who are going to make a
oral testimony so that everyone
understand.
That happens often. You were not
Agreed with the decision? YOU
You said that's a bit too nice, or
A bit too harsh, actually. Is it
that as a judge you are sometimes
said here
So, uh, I was lucky enough to have
some of the jurors who were really from
already of very, very high quality with
that, the discussion was possible.
That's the most important thing. After,
We may disagree, but uh
The most important thing is really to
to think, "Okay, we're almost there, uh..."
they are not of the same mind as me or a
That's not right, but at least he told me
explained why there was something
something sensible, reasonable
in there. Why not ? The worst part is
Well, you don't understand what.
It's a misunderstanding. So, well, uh
I have decisions regarding concern
or guilt, no, I've never had
no problem on that side. There was
sometimes when I wasn't necessarily
agree on the sentence because they vote
also on the sentence. They also vote on
the punishment. That is to say, they will say
"Well, for me it's worth 15, for me it
"That's worth 12." Yes. Yes.
That's the difference with Americans where
They only vote on guilt
What.
Do you think we're not
Is it strict enough in France? Justice
It's something that comes back around 80 or 70
% of French people. I miss it, I'm not
Sure of these? Yes, well, that's what
some media outlets are presenting. I'm not
on. You have roughly one
complete prison overcrowding
exponential. Currently, we have when
even 75,000 prisoners. When I started,
There were 18,000 prisoners.
That's just a space issue.
But do you think we are
Severe enough? It's what ? But but
That's what I'm telling you. I say I
I think so. Uh, I think so.
Well, that's a matter of personal opinion.
His door, right? No, I think that
Once again, the prisons are
are full and then we pronounce
Well, me, as president of the court
I didn't do the count while seated, but I had to
pronouncing dozens and dozens
and dozens, even hundreds
Years in prison, that's what. We often see
articles about the trials of
people who attacked in the street at
knife, thingamajig. Each time, we say
Look, he's unbalanced, he was
He was tried for insanity, or he pleaded insanity.
Is this something new?
A trick to avoid prison? SO,
It's not a new thing because
it's something that is, that is
A real one that exists, right? I have some.
we had to deal with this kind of
case. So, there are several
levels in quotation marks, well, two
levels of, uh, irresponsibility
of responsibility or irresponsibility.
There is, uh, something really good there that we
calls it total schizophrenia where the
No one says, "I heard voices that..."
"He'll take me down and go kill the first person he sees."
Well, this one is going to be so indeed
The experts conclude that this alteration
mental, it's going to be absolutely a
abolition of discernment or control
of these acts. Abolition means it
is not responsible for these acts. Not
responsible
not at all responsible for these actions. And
Then there's another one in
below, where it's just an alteration
Or
where the person is hindered,
She is not prevented, she is hindered.
in controlling his actions. I had
the case
of an individual who had a career
quite violent and who one day was in
I think it was, yes, it was in...
Saint-Denis was in a park and
Then he sees a jogger and then him
He jumps on him and hits him several times.
of a knife and there it was the same, we were
started with abolition but in fact the
Experts estimated that they knew and
Besides, he had told me afterwards
I don't know what came over me, I saw him and
then he regained consciousness so he
It wasn't completely delusional, you know. And
So for him, it's an alteration. SO
He, on the other hand, may have circumstances.
as they say, expected. He's going, he's going
to be punished somewhat less severely than
But there you have it. And after that, it's
people who will be monitored in
detention. So the one who is who is
therefore declared
How can I put it? Completely irresponsible.
He will be hospitalized. No, but who
To release him, we're going to put him in the hospital
psychiatric and he's not ready to
to go out.
No, but the point is, what's there?
who takes advantage of this by doing as
At the time of military service, there were
had plenty of people getting informed
pretending to be crazy. It's for
That's what we believe.
That's why we have experts.
Yeah. P4. Yes, they are experts
psychiatrists that we have, that we appoint
systematically and who will see
Indeed, if that's what you've already seen
guys pretending to be crazy
Finally, or the experts who have the experts
He sees what's going on pretty quickly. Yes yes
Yes, yes, of course, but that's about it.
It's done quite quickly, I would say.
The other meaning is also there: there are judges
who are
in the profession, in part, and precisely
check if the people who are
hospitalized patients always present with
psychiatric disorders that
prevent them from leaving. Well, I did
that at some point and we make a
maintenance after a certain number 3
4 months of people who are
hospitalized
And that's when we realize it quite quickly
At the beginning, for 2 or 3 minutes, we have a
someone who behaves like you and
Me. Well, you know, I understand.
Now I want to go out because that
I'm doing better, I'm on good treatment.
Yeah, it's true that I was a little
violent, but now everything's fine.
It really does require you to give me my
luck because there, well, the staff is
That's all very nice, but well, and then...
cut
and besides, the Holy Virgin has
I explained that last night, ah, having switched sides.
And there you go, it's going very fast, it's going very
We'll realize it soon enough.
quickly that the person is not is
not in a state to understand everything well
I quote, I quote, I cite this example as
I could mention others, but we have
a speech that suddenly goes off the rails
completely, and in the other direction it's
Likewise, the one who tries to pass by
For you, well, at some point he will
to have very
Yeah, very logical.
very logical
not to mention your private life
but you are dad
child I don't know if they are girls or
boys, but when you
judge someone who has harmed a
For example, female jogger, do you
you project as a father by saying
Well, I can imagine the state of his too.
parents. Does it work?
So, it mustn't happen.
You remain a human being.
Quite. It mustn't play out because
that, uh, we lose at that moment our
impartiality.
Here, we still have in the
Oath, one must be objective, neutral
and impartial. That's the most
important. But we shouldn't get ahead of ourselves.
in there. Me, me, I've always, uh
I have always tried to avoid
this, uh, this situation because
Indeed, that allows us, uh, not
to be able to deliver good justice. Me,
I only had one case where I had
summer uh
I had been warned; I was a prosecutor at
Versailles, and there was a gentleman who
had presented himself at the police station to
to declare that his wife and son
8-9 year olds had disappeared. Maybe
Not even 8 or 9 years old, more like 6 or 7 years old. Yeah. Not
very large. Had disappeared. He didn't know
where he was. Okay, uh, we're doing some
research, we do research and
Then, uh, at 2 a.m., the commissioner
He calls me and says, "Well, there you go,
I have bad news.
The mother has been found.
not the child, but the child too, we
found him, but he is at the bottom of
time. And what we learned is that
It was the lady who drowned him, who drowned him
his own child, who is hyper
depressed. In fact, she went up
then in a building on the 4th floor. She
She threw herself out the window, she's not
dead but she's in a very dirty
state. So now we need to
warn the husband, that's all. Good,
It was extremely difficult. Well, I know, I
I'm at home, it's 2 or 3 in the morning.
I learn this news and everything, I
I got up, obviously
to answer the phone and well,
I hang up and then I feel an emotion
It's still very important, and I'm putting myself in that position.
It's enough to make you cry. So. Well, after that, it's at
For me, it's in a private place, it's not
in front of everyone. Now, I'm in
Speak because, well, that's it. But from time to time
time, we can indeed have this
a surge of emotion, but we can have it
at home. We can, we can live off
moments of great emotion, but it is necessary
to experience them not at the moment of
the audience, not at the moment when we will
to judge, but upstream or perhaps in
downstream, but taking this distance
there. You shouldn't tell yourself when you are
Judge, well, I'm in my ivory tower.
I'm not going to have any emotions, I'm going to
Containing these emotions is fine.
to happen. That doesn't exist because
that we always have these emotions and if
We're trying to push them back, so we're going to...
speak very well on the plan
psychological and we can rebuild ourselves and
and then precisely lose that humanity which
must be the nre what.
There is the, that's what we call the
Vicarious trauma. That's it.
Yes, that's it. Well, that's something I learned.
This happened during the trial for the November 13th attacks.
november. He's a psychologist, Thierry
Beaubé, who is a great guy who
had therefore been cited by the
lawyers for the plaintiffs to describe a
a little bit of the post-traumatic shock experienced
by
the victims. So the survivors but
The families of the deceased as well.
And uh, on a question from one of the
lawyers, he talks about the trauma
vicarian. What is this?
I'd never heard of it.
Well, I learned that not long ago.
a long time. So vicarian, it's going to be
vicar and all. Well, it's a term one
A little bit religious, you know. It borrows from
the liturgy somewhere.
Well, it's actually a trauma by
proxy that one undergoes that one undergoes this
who are good, that is to say, the people who
the first ones are the primal ones
stakeholders who will be in contact
with victims of ch
police officers and firefighters returning home
the firefighters, the police
the lawyers and then after the arena
I can only imagine
So the PS (presumably referring to a specific group or group) know about this, therefore...
They need to, they have some
techniques and then the judge at the end
What. And it's true that we experienced it ourselves.
with colleagues because we had
I heard, uh, more than 400 victims
during the trial of the expectations of the 13th
november. So many of the survivors
which fostered a feeling of
terrible guilt for having survived
compared to the deceased.
That was something, we saw people
who were in a state but who the
evidence that was truly very
impacted several years later. Good and
who described absolutely
Horrible. And so, well, we
and a little influenced by it
dramaturgy
described symptoms that we will
to find, that is to say, problem of
Sleep OK
hypervigilance OK, sensitivity to noise
OK, and all of this is explained to us in detail by
the psychologist and between us we do the
Chaf, we say to ourselves, "Hey, I'll tick that one."
I'll check that one, and then we'll...
we discuss it amongst ourselves as we leave
the audience we say well yes we
maybe a little bit of the leftovers of
this trauma, to such an extent that I...
In the evening I come home, I am at home, I
I'm comfortably on my sofa and
then I drift off into a half-sleep, a
form of unconsciousness
and there I see myself in the hall of the
Bataclan with bodies falling
side.
Am I going crazy? What is happening?
pass ? And that's it, that's the...
formative of carens. So
What do I do? What am I
do ? I'm calling a friend at
Marseille, who is a psychologist, tells me
Right off the bat, oh well, I'm happy about
I was waiting to hear your call.
Exactly. And well, she told me
reassured, we couldn't discuss it, we
We discussed it amongst ourselves, and it made me
effectively allowed us to evacuate it. But
It's true that it was...
impressive because we wonder, is it
That I capsize and everything? Is it that in
train of
Okay, so after that I very quickly
I started all over again. That's true.
that it was
It was quite impressive, actually. Good
The next day it was all over.
See you arrive at the trial of the 13th
In November, we were talking about alcohol before I
I was wondering if it would change the course
of a trial. Is that it
allowed to determine if it was a
element
Is it an aggravating factor or not? Besides,
30% of fatal road accidents
in France last year are from to a
Excessive alcohol consumption. So it's a
approximately one in three accidents in France.
Is there a file on you?
who made an impression on you with alcohol?
flying ?
Um, there is indeed one who has
marked, I was a prosecutor in Versailles
Indeed, finally, the deputy prosecutor.
So there were several of us in that courtroom.
And so we will judge in a hearing.
correctional court a gentleman who at
steering wheel of his vehicle
under the influence of alcohol
really characterized, he was really
He'd really drunk a lot, hadn't he?
torment two young girls who are
on a moped/scooter.
Yeah.
And he's in such a state
It's pathetic that he knocks it over and then he
will drag the scooter under his car
for I don't know how many meters.
Okay, both completely.
He doesn't realize it, he realizes it
He counts, but he continues, he
He continues, then flees. He takes the
leak. Well, actually, quite quickly.
we will be able to identify it because
that he's going to have witnesses and all that.
Well, I don't have the
I actually have more in mind the
the course of the investigation, but the two
Unfortunately, they are little girls.
very pleasantly injured. They will
They will die of the sweat, they have
17 years old. And what is absolutely
What's appalling is that they manage to
the hospital and he is the father of one
of them who is an emergency room doctor
who receives them.
Let me tell you, it was absolutely
Terrible for that poor man.
So the
The trial arrives in Versailles a few days
weeks later. The person, therefore, he
He is arrested, he admits to the facts.
Well, he really is him.
particularly
uh, overwhelmed. He knows he did
something absolutely.
What is the profile? an old man
A man who drinks a lot, a young man who
No, that old gentleman, he's an adult.
who was a bit of an alcoholic. Yes. And who
like many others, Ben had continued to
drinking and driving, basically. Okay, so while he
had already been convicted, he was in
He's a repeat offender and, what's more, he's on the run. He
He had everything going for him. And this
The audience had been me, I am, I am busy
the functions, therefore the seat of
prosecutor. So I'm going to get up to
to take requisitions and and I
remembers the room is full
crack. There are the families of
victims who are very dignified. They are
very very
Catholics who are in a state of forgiveness.
It's truly extraordinary. And
There's this guy who still has B
It's extremely difficult. I remember, I
I'm telling you, that goes back 30 years. I
Remember it like it was yesterday, huh?
And when I get up to talk to
company name, I know that all the
The world will be watching what I say.
I don't have the right to commit a
mistake, a world gone wrong like you
tell me. And the same goes for the lawyer of the
defense, it was, uh, uh, I remember
Master Ardaillon, who had made a very
beautiful pledoirie,
But it was incredibly difficult.
The two girls died there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ah yeah. It was dreadful.
Appalling. Ah yes, they had
hit with his car and then dragged. I
Hey cyclist, it was good.
How much did he get? You
Remember or not? No.
So he had taken the maximum. HAS
back then it wasn't much
maximum. Now, that would be a lot
Furthermore, we would know for up to 20 years
because she was a repeat offender. HAS
At the time, he had taken 4 years.
No, that's not true.
Yeah, but that's the maximum. That was it.
What.
Excuse me, but I don't know if that's the right way to say it.
the camera or something, but there isn't
many revenge crimes.
That's something that has always stuck with me.
France.
Well, that means that people are
Reasonable is good.
Yes, but I...
That's justice. Fortunately,
Well, that means justice is doing its thing.
work.
Justice is doing its job since we
trusts in the rule of law. for uh
to fulfill this function. Otherwise, we
falls into barbarity and the most
total, that is. If everyone does their own thing
justice, uh, oneself, that's
Has that never struck you? No.
Well, if in a positive sense, I say
that people are reasonable
What. We are fortunate to have
people who are supposed to be, what. And I tell you
Tell me, is this the father who is a doctor, George?
dentist, he had been uh doubly
impacted, what? Well, were they there?
were they really
of such incredible dignity!
the audience. Hat
because he had received the body of his
girl. Hat !
Good,
hat ! Well
uh, you had three, you had
siblings are also sometimes judged in the same way
time. Three brothers who were
teenagers accused of assaulting a
She was a teenager at the time.
Rape
rape
rape and acts of torture and barbarity.
Oh yes, it was extremely serious. It was the
The maximum sentence incurred is life imprisonment. But
because they were minors, they
they did not yet
this absolute punishment. Yes. No, it was
It was quite horrible. She's just a kid.
who is a girl of 18 or 19 years old
who goes home who arrives at the
Évrcourante station, which exits the station
whoever falls will unfortunately fall on
So, these four crazy women, the most
four years old
Yeah, there are four of them, three
brothers and another friend there is the most
He's older, he's the eldest brother, so he will
pass in front of the seat rope of the
minors.
He was 16 years old at the time, which was a bit of an effect.
plus and the other three they have less
16 years old. They will pass, they will
to appear before a criminal court. SO
It's not a court of assizes.
and all three of them will be sentenced to
That's still 7 years in prison, which
It's not nothing. And so he was the
Well, he was the leader, and so they...
they subjected them to acts involving multiple rapes
Afterwards, several of them are hyper
violent. That is to say, he hits him
on it with a stick. They make him
acts of torture and barbarity. I you
It's rare that we remember that.
with acts of torture and barbarity. Good,
I'm not going to go into details.
It's something quite
despicable. Disgusting, and you're forced to do that.
to meet the young girl as well.
She then came to meet me.
That's where I learned about this case, I was
president of the assizes already. I was
I am at the time of judgment.
Yeah.
And then, indeed, she comes to
the audience,
She came to testify, but she had
I find it extremely difficult to testify. It is
a young woman who had considered a
At one point in this so much she had
I absolutely had a very bad experience at that moment.
appalling. She had even thought of
at some point throw yourself over a
bridge. Okay, and she's saved by two
other young women who pass by
car that sees her ragged in a
A dreadful state, that's all. And who will
To save her, to take her to the hospital, that's all.
It was extremely difficult. So, and then the
The boy also wanted that boy.
which was incredibly violent.
At 16, he had threatened the police.
during police custody, saying "Ah, that
"Not calm down, are you out?" I'm going to tell you all
kill you. OK. He had been very violent
also at the hearing during
instruction. He hadn't said anything. He
had remained silent, he had refused
to answer the judge's questions
of the investigation, of the prosecutor, all of that
the audience. he had taken the good and
He had aged 30 years, so the
maximum that could run at the time and
uh
and so he had, uh, he had tried
to play the madness
explaining that he heard
voice but there is an expert who was
came precisely to say no, but oh well
Wait, it's perfectly normal, it's
It's a sham. They are less at risk
when they are minors. Yes, a lot
less.
Well, they're less at risk. The penalties
They're not the same, that's all. This is the
maximum decreases.
That needs to change, in your opinion.
Well, there's been quite an evolution.
about that. That is to say, we have when
even the possibility
to rule out, there is a law that which
includes the excuse of minority.
That is to say, the excuse of minority status.
That does it, halving the sentence. But
in certain cases in the case of
of serious harm of fact
particularly serious, we rule out the
the excuse of minority. That's what we
had done for the boy whose
was talking earlier about who had who
was accused of all the acts of
barbarity with the assize court therefore
that is to say the jurors and then the judges of
children who, if with me, we had kept away
the excuse of minority status because he was
extremely dangerous. Uh, last one
anecdote to talk about trafficking
drugs too, because you've been on them
of all types of business. That's what
as you were saying you were at a moment
given and then everything that happened
It was for you on a traffic
cocaine organized gang. So that's
an organized gang between Colombia
this time and Europe. You tell
That was before we even talked about November 13th.
that's it, that's what it represented, I think...
quantities of in tonnes
So there were several
business. So I know
2 5 you speak. Ah yes, so that
It was, uh, yes, yes. A great team
Effectively
organized a huge amount of money because
2.5 that
Oh yes, yes, it was in three trips
eh. The biggest one weighed a ton
but other times there were 600 and
the other 800 I don't know something
like that. So, the technique used
It was good.
to load the cocaine onto a
sailboat that crossed the Atlantic. THE
The sailing ship departed from the Antilles or Cuba.
That was Cuba at the time. It was good, we had
a team of two individuals
who are going there, who are skipping all that
who are leaving, who are renting a sailboat and
tourist route. No, no
a 12m sailboat. Okay, and right in the middle
of the Atlantic or at least in the
In that sector, there's a boat that
arriving from Colombia, the traffickers all
that and who will load onto the sailboat
So, cocaine.
In fact, they were afraid because he
there was, there was much more than
planned and they started to agitate. They
They were still afraid of sinking.
And then they make the crossing.
they cross the Atlantic, they pass
via Cape Verde or and and they arrive at
large part of Mauritania, let's say more
or less. And now, a new organization.
There's a helicopter that's coming to pick up
in charge of the merchandise on the sailboat
and who will uh take him to the coast. THE
but the aim being that the sailboat passes through the
following the empty D3 flight from Gibraltar because
that there was a lot of control
precisely boats by the by the
customs officers by police officials
who suspected trafficking. SO
the helicopter takes the
merchandise, brings it onto the land
farm in Mauritania, chances on a
truck, the truck goes back up to the
In Morocco, we arrive in Tangier, for example, and
There he is, in the meantime he's passed by and
he will retrieve the merchandise which has
new by the by the helicopter which will
who will therefore take charge of the
merchandise in Tangier on the coast and the
unload onto the boat and the boat
will arrive on the Spanish coasts or
French. So. And here we have three
deliveries that are made like this and
with a very, very beautiful
organization. And what was, uh, what
had, uh, made me smile
In that context, it's that, uh, during one of the
three, uh, one of the three deliveries,
The helicopter will unload, so...
this merchandise very close to Foi. Faith,
This is my hometown.
family, that's what it is. And I identify very well
quickly
the area because it was there there
next to it is an underground river
river of the river of the mouth that
is called which is a navigable river
That is to say, there is a lot of tourism.
who will use this river
underground to see the concretions
All in all, it's a great visit.
It's a cave, actually a river
Who
an underground river. That's the
the most navigable underground river
Long in Europe, to tell you the truth. Good,
well, at least, at the time when we
had found and so the the
The organizer, finally, is going to be
When questioned, the main organizer will
uh, describe all of that and then in front of me,
He said, "Well, there you go, uh, by
However, I don't remember where.
It was, but I know it was.
had unloaded, there was a place,
There was a castle and then next to it,
there was an underground river and there I
I told him, "Oh yes, it was..."
the river of the mouth had an addition
near the liver."
And then, the guy looks at me and he falls
nights. He thought to himself, "Oh dear, he's..."
imagined that we had, that we had the
had been monitoring everything since then. SO
that I just had this, there was
that I, who could possibly...
find that thing. It was quite
Funny, huh?
And they took, they took the water
Also.
Oh yes ! Yes ! We are in the
traffic,
we are in the import business, we are in the
seats. Organized importation
What.
We will conclude that the trial of
Attacks, if you please. 13
November 2015, there were the attacks
that we know. We've already talked, we have
does a special program, by the way
with victims and different
people who have lived from the inside
the attacks. And I'll put you in the...
Here's the link if you're interested. Besides,
the show is really
It's very interesting and I'll put you in touch.
the link in the description if you
You might also want to watch this episode. Uh
You will be called, the trial
begins in September 2021. Uh, we'll...
When will you call? How much is it?
We prepare years in advance
For a trial? I imagine that it is necessary
work a lot beforehand. How long
Does the first phone call warn you?
So, it's not even a phone call,
This is an interview I had at the end of 2019.
or in November 2019, uh, during
the installation of Jean-Michel Hayat
who becomes the first president of the
Paris Court of Appeal. And to that
At that moment, I was, uh, in the middle of
to finish a trial in Eve who was a
A fairly important trial that lasted 2
months already, which was the trial of
people who were involved in
the attack on police officers in Vierry
Châtillon. police officers who were in
therefore under surveillance and who are
attacked by about ten young people who
throw beards
who set the car on fire.
Yeah. Who set the car on fire
with
uh, incendiary bombs. Good ones
cocktail. So. Search for the term
seek.
Okay, we're nearing the end of the trial. SO
I
That day I finished a little earlier
to attend this ceremony and it is at
the end of this ceremony that the first
He told me about it. The first president told me
"Well, listen, I'm thinking of you." Ah, okay.
All right. I was not a candidate
me again because I thought that
once it was this file that was
He was impressive, what was it because he was
very, very, very bulky. Do I
Am I up to the task? Am I going to
To maintain my impartiality, my neutrality?
All of this is not straightforward. Okay, it's a
historic trial.
Well, there you go. So he tells me about it at this point.
At that moment, I was there, and he told me in a
In fact, it was at the beginning that it was in
second position, well, it took two
presidents. That is to say, in the event that the first
Given the length of the trial, it
Something happens to the first one, a
illness, an accident, anything can
to arrive within 10 months. So the second
takes over immediately. We can
Do not return. Otherwise, well, if the president
Stop, Mr. President.
The trial is postponed. Unless there are any
someone who can replace him at a moment's notice.
But in this situation, someone was needed. Good and he
He told me that, and then, well, I thought about it.
there.
Do you talk about it with your family?
I talk about it with people around me and I tell myself
well if someone
If I feel any kind of threat, I'll go.
not.
You said it's one of your children
I'm scared
Yeah, yeah, I think so. Yeah, but then
So my children tell me, oh no
That's great, go for it. Yes, it's very
interesting. My partner says the same thing.
And all my loved ones tell me
I'm asking colleagues too. they say
You realize it a little, but go ahead. Yes
Yes. Well, I think so.
You were hoping someone would tell you
almost
almost, I thought, well, yeah, well
Finally, and well, it's an honor.
also, and then it is an honor that we
entrusts you with something, and then there's the interest.
also to go, I say it's still the
the time you can go in the
The details of this file are...
the most serious attack which took place
in France since the second
World war.
It's about wanting to know, having, or wanting to know.
to know what happened, how it
it happened because it's not something
something that is improvised days in advance
eh.
Are you going there without fear or not? Uh
Honestly, when someone tells you
uh, and every good family tells you "Ah
Great, and is that what you
Deep down I'm not afraid, I have... I have
not afraid of threats or retaliation but
I'm afraid at first, I wonder, is it
Will I be up to the task?
I will retain this authority and
Then, we know there will be many
This is going to get a lot of media attention, so...
Press, good, how is she going to live through all this?
Well, it's not simple, but then at the same time
time we are, we want to discover
that's the time it takes me to think when I say
Well, in the end, I agree. He
he told me, "Well no, it's first because
that ultimately for the first one it's not
possible. So you go first."
Ah, I say, but that's not in the
it wasn't in "I become the first"
the boss, as you say. Yes, the
president, what title?
Well, I still have some time to
I was thinking, but then I went like...
I've already said yes, I can hardly
saying no at that moment, but anyway, so
I accept. How long ? And that
It was in 2000, at the end of 2019, for a trial.
which normally starts in January
21 and which will begin in September
because, uh, we're going to build a room
specific, therefore, within the palace of
historical justice, therefore a great
room but in the meantime there is the we have the
Covid and the lockdown.
The work has stopped, especially since we have
places orders in Lombardy, which is
also affected by Covid
Italy. So. And the trial begins
The construction is delayed. THE
The trial will begin in September 2021. So
I have 18 months to prepare the application.
And that's 18 months.
Thankfully, thankfully there was
That's because it would have been, I'll start
I hadn't finished that trial. The file
the file was not completely finished
terrorist attacks. So I'll start by
end of March when we have the order from the
referral of the summary order
summary of the file which is made by the
investigating judge who writes 500 pages
However, for a summary, see.
And that's where we begin for
Normally January 21st. That's short notice.
But you must read there every day.
It's reading.
Yes, that's Yes. Yes. Then we read the
a case involving 500 men, but we
reads from a hard drive which is which is
Big like that, you know.
You are going to meet the accused, uh
this time. Finally, there is no
sworn. You told us in this trial
there so as not to put them in danger. YOU
go and go to the prisons for the
see. Do they come to see you?
in a separate place? How
Is this going to happen? So, it's me who
I went to see them in the for those
who were being held. I did the
tour of all the houses
from where they were stopped. So, there are some
had in Boisarci, there were some in
Fleurimogist in Nanterre. So. SO,
I went to question them. So, then
It's a purely formal interrogation.
We verify identity,
the lawyer's profession and name.
It's just something that is
foreseen. It's a formality that is
planned before the trial. Just before the
trial by the president. Oh, that's that
It doesn't take long, it takes 10 minutes.
A quarter of an hour, huh. It's really
We're not addressing the issue. So we're going to
We go there, uh, the people are
taken from their cells, are brought
in a separate room under surveillance
Of course
you are never alone
with the lawyer. No, not with their lawyer.
And then we ask them their name.
premixture, profession, home, lawyer
And that's all there is to it. And what is
you have ? You mean something
thing ? That's all.
But we're not talking about the case, are we?
What does this have to do with Islam?
So with Salabdlam, well, uh, I'm
I was wondering what he was going to tell me because
that, uh, he had remained silent. He
had been questioned
once by the police services in
Belgium at the time of his arrest in
2016 and since then he had refused to
To answer, he had remained silent, he
answer all questions from
judges.
And here, well, here he's cooperative, he
He replies, he is with his new one
lawyer
And only at the end did he say, "Okay, he..."
he makes statements, he tries to
intimidating me anyway by saying
Yeah. Yeah. by saying well I hope he
I wonder if I've ever judged...
I'm not answering, do you have
Have terrorist trials already been held?
because I've already noticed that the
There are many Muslims, there are many
less well treated than others
people, that Europeans, that the
that your, uh, that your kind among
quotation marks, something like that. And
He tells you this.
He told me this, and I hope you will be
SO
more up to scratch, basically, and
because today's authority will be
the danger of tomorrow something in this
That's the taste, that's what it is, the regret of tomorrow. SO
Basically, you shouldn't have, that meant
I shouldn't be too strict
too hard
otherwise there would be risks of
reprise.
What do you reply to him? I'm not answering.
I'm noting this down because I'm with my
clerk. Yes, me.
Ah, so he writes everything down.
I am with my clerk. I said okay
You write that down and that's it.
No, no, I'm not answering. That's it
That's all he meant. I don't have it
discussion on this. YOU
You said the trial was going to be long
with that there. At first you think it's going to be
complicated.
No, but I was already satisfied that he
that he expresses himself because, well, he would have
could even refuse to come to this
room
And that's not the case. So he expresses himself.
Okay, he does that. Well, I feel like he's...
He's sizing me up, basically. But anyway, there you have it.
Except he has
I've been doing this for about thirty years.
much more than him, than I have more
from experience. So that didn't work for me.
Very impressed, actually.
What are his conditions?
Where does he live? You see his cell
? Is that what you're asking?
Yes. Yes. Yes, yes. I have access to
So, he is, uh, in isolation.
that is to say, he is all alone in a
cell,
he has no contact with others
detainees. That's what isolation is. He must have
contact with the supervisors
prisons, of course. He has some
A visiting permit, right? He must have...
visiting rooms his mother, his sister. He has a
cell, so where it's not too bad
Installed, right? Well, except it's a small one
cell, but finally he still has some
What, he has a small kitchen to make
his kitchen. He has a shower, he has a
TV screen and then he has a room of
sports right next door, a small cell
where he has two instruments to make for
to do some physical activity, a
cycling and then a rowing machine. There you go, and one
a small courtyard for strolling where
He's all alone, that's all. So he is
very small of course, much more
smaller than the other courses
ride. He is in isolation. So.
First day of the trial. Do you
Do you get up in the morning? A little bit of stress.
Even if you have a huge amount of experience
In such an important trial, is it
that there is still something in the
stomach in the morning? Well, there is... there is...
stress not that the step not that the day of the
French, right?
As the fateful date approached
approach. Yes. Yes. There is, there is indeed
Surely there is a concentration which is
increasingly important. Well, I have
planned of course we did a
planning, it's been a long time since
I know what's going to happen from the of the of
from September to May. At first, we
It was supposed to end after 9 months, but we
had 5 more weeks because there is
I did indeed have the virus, Covid
And everything, he was 5 weeks late
since the accused must attend
The entire trial, all the time. So yes,
There is tension, of course, there is a
Tensions are expected in the coming days.
When you leave in the morning for the
trial, you say there were 1000
police officers around on
Yes. Well then, that's what it is.
that was the figure they gave us, that was all.
around. So, there were some, there were
police officers and gendarmes. There's only
there were snipers on the
roofs surrounding the palace
surroundings. There were police officers,
Riot police are everywhere, all around the island.
of the city, since it's in the city
which was the access to the city island
was completely forbidden except for
those who had authorization
Even we have it when we arrive, me
I was indeed with a crew
police with two police officers one
an officer and a driver. So we
had the flashing light we had the maps
professional. We were still
when you're three times on the kettle
of the palace which is quite short
despite the giraffe
despite everything and every time it was necessary
that we show our identity card but
the safety instructions
They were draconian, but there was reason for it.
because we expected we could
expecting anything, we were still judging
THE
people who were involved at a high level
level in the attacks of the 13th
November, what I was dreading was
not necessarily something in Paris or
in any case not at the palace yet could
to say someone is going to arrive or with uh
a belt under the clothes and
What are we going to do? So there
there were still dams which
were getting further and further away. So.
But what I was most afraid of was
more likely an attack which
could have taken place elsewhere in a
another city, for example.
The first type of trial, you arrive,
You are in a police car.
Are you asking what you
Do it anyway for 2 seconds
? What am I even doing here?
No, I'm not taking a bite. No, I
I am impressed, more impressed by the
secure.
I am impressed by this device.
I said, well, that's fine, we're safe.
What. There, that's good. We're going
enter from the side. There too, there is
one more check and that's it. There, I
Okay, so this room is fine.
He was told it would be alright. I will
quickly find my colleagues with
with whom I was in regular contact
And that's it. Okay, let's go!
Why, because it's been several days?
that we are still waiting for that moment.
who, when you meet him
Salab of Islam, even before what
he finally clears the first time even in
in terms of, we imagine, we don't imagine a
terrorist see
we see the videos of the images
but it's hard to imagine
Ah, well, he's a human being just like you.
And me, well, that's how we see it.
and then
The only unusual thing is that they
They're all masked, we're right in the middle of...
Full Covid, semi-lockdown, basically.
Finally, not in lockdown, but we are in
full Covid so mandatory uh
An obligation to forgive everyone.
everyone, we judges, uh, the uh
the court clerks, the lawyers, the public,
everyone is masked and the and the
They are also accused; they are in the dock with
the mask on the face. So it's
It's true that he's going to remove it.
His mask and I will tolerate it
Yes, I will accept that they
they all remove their masks at the moment when
They express themselves because, well, they have to.
It's important to see, you know.
That's exactly it, that's it, that's it again
Once upon a time, they're human beings, you know.
no matter how much they criticize things
appalling
They are beings like you and me.
What. That's all, it seems you're going to...
putting things back in their place means phrases
which were resumed on the first day of the
trial. Uh, he's going to introduce himself as
You each take turns calling the accused
introduce themselves.
It seems he's going to cause some discomfort right away
The beginning. What is he going to say? In
So it's the same, it's pure
shape. First of all, you should know that the
The trial begins with three four hours of
delay. For what ? Because there is a
computer failure, that is to say, uh, we
it starts, that's what I decided
we start at midday
trials, hearings, uh, because
in view of the devices of
safety, it took about 45 minutes
to bring in the prisoners.
From the depot to the box, 3/4 of an hour
to leave again. So I thought to myself, if we
I do this every day with a break
Meridian, we will lose 3 hours between 12 and
2. So I prefer to start at 12:30. They
had waiting boxes in at
proximity. So we started at 12:30,
We finished in the evening at 8 or 9 pm. Anyway
But it saved time and it avoided
a lot of security checks and that
things were going seriously with the services of
security. arrange all the
speakers, the lawyers could
working on other things in the morning too.
Okay, so we have to start at 12:30
At midday and in case of a problem, we're testing the microphones because
that the trial then, on the one hand, it is
recorded for the archives
historical,
even in video format.
In video format?
Ah, he's being filmed.
He is being filmed. Ah, he's being filmed. He was
No image. We can't see them. No.
Not yet. So, a small clarification
Now, the unfair trials
The proceedings at the assizes court can be filmed. It is
a new law that dates back 2 or 3 years
with the agreement of the stakeholders.
Now we can see and there are
broadcasts including justice in France
so where we can actually see
certain trials and to get an idea
of what happens in a room of
The defendants must agree.
I don't have them, I don't know exactly
how it works, but in any case, if
If you disagree, it can be blurred and
His name must not be spoken. So,
That's the guarantee because I have
I've seen that before. So here, however, he is
It is being filmed for the archives
historical. This is a first. We
will see in 30 or 50 years, since that's
the Badinter law which had provided
Indeed, for the Barbie trial.
He is also being filmed because he is going to be
what is happening in the room
audience which still contains 600
places. It's going to be what we expected
a lot of people and we're going to have a
broadcast in 15 other theaters
the court of appeal where the public can come
so watch on giant screens.
pleasure.
So at first it was full, then later
We closed several quite quickly
rooms. At the end there was a room
just for the press who were at
proximity the room described all the
journalists who were there to
print media, audio media, all that stuff
were following the trial on their own
this screen which could also come in
The main room, right? So. So we
I did a microphone test at noon because everything
It works and it's 12:30 when I go
ring to announce the start of the trial
the opening of the room
there was the coordinator who had done a
Excellent work Julien Ker, that's what I
really greets
uh, with a lot of...
consideration and respect that comes to me
see told me "Well, you shouldn't come all the way from
After that, nothing works anymore.
In fact, there were so many people,
journalists, the public, the parties
civilians, all of them, there were
so many people around, everyone
If it's just a phone call, it blows everything up. That
It blew everything up, basically. No, not at all.
It was there in the control room because we had
a control room a little bit like
I had seen him who was above
the room a little bit like we see in
Roland Garros, for example, he had...
There were still 10 cameras. Okay, you
You see, it was still quite
It's a rather cumbersome system. So that
It doesn't work. So, three-quarters of an hour of
delay. Okay, I'm a little tense right now.
I really wanted to start.
So we finally go home
and then uh I start the
interrogations. I then I had
arranged the accused, uh, who were in
the box which they were in, there were 11
They're still being held, though, right? So, uh
following alphabetical order, that
It suited me, especially since the first one
It was him, it was Salam.
of Eslam that I still wanted to have
nearby, which was still the most
implied.
So he gets up, no, first name, profession.
So he told me, uh, no, the first name of
parents, he starts telling me "Well, I
simply tell me what the
Texts, huh. So that's the name." I told him
I ask him, I ask him his name.
You have to start there.
So, I have to start with
there. his full identity, the name of
his name, his first name of his parents and
Then he told me, "Well, my parents have
"Nothing to do with that." So first
Yes, if he does it anyway, he recites it.
a shada to begin with, even before...
reply to me.
What is this ? It is
Well, the chada is the... it's the fact of
saying "I" is the oath
mandatory which uh uh
which is pronounced by Muslims
on such an occasion. I decree
that there is only one god, Muhammad and
his prophet. There you go, that's part of it
of their ritual, that is. Okay, I said okay
We'll see about that later, since right now we are...
in a courtroom, one is not
not within a church setting.
No, first name. Okay, but uh, so on the
Yes, my parents have nothing to do with it
in there. From his profession, and there he said
I have ceased all activity since I
I am a fighter for the Islamic State
And that casts a chill that I feel
An icy chill filled the room.
Uh, I've already talked about that. That makes
To begin with, it's freezing cold and I
feels like a cold breath
a little bit of what I compared a
At one point, I talked about it to what we
I see it in a series like Game of Thrones.
the white walkers. You know the
The cold is settling in. Okay, I sense a
A huff went off in the room. Ah, the people who
They're shocked, that's all. And me, I
Go back to my notes, I said well, me
I had noted "temporary" because it is
what he had told me.
So. And that's when things completely fall apart.
because he says, well, I'm a fighter
of the Islamic State. I say, well, me
I was a temporary worker. So I feel a little
Not a fit of laughter, but a little chuckle when
even in the room since that means
that he tried to take the the
direction of the trial that I have
not left. I say no, it is, and I
just carry on as if nothing had happened.
I'm completely unaware of that in France.
You were a temporary worker and all that. Good
Okay, well you have the right to
express and so forth. So I say notify
his rights, it starts like this and
That's actually good without me...
realize this right away
launched the trial and on a how to say
on a trajectory that was quite
favorable because of the comments
were quite eloquent in saying, well then
the president did not leave
to take over the direction of the trial
since he put him in his place by saying
by picking that up again.
He stares at you during the trial. He
Try to do the same.
Oh well, I'm staring at it too, you know. We
fixed, and not just him, you know. Not just him
It's the same with the others. Uh
I've always done that, and that says it all.
allows you to learn a lot about
People when you stare at them. We see in
The look of many things. We see
especially when they lower their eyes or
when they say something that isn't
not necessarily the truth.
Well, that's precisely where the glance is exchanged, or where he
lowers his eyes. They will look at
on the side to serve you effectively
as they say in the jargon for you
to serve a lie, a
untruth. That's annoying, isn't it?
saying it's complicated to say
eye to eye a huge
lie. That's right. So.
Well, that's actually why he had
always the chin, the chin up and
It wasn't a downward gaze at all.
He was staring at you too. Yes yes yes yes
Yes, no problem. He had a
personality afterwards he had he didn't
reason for being
to bow down, eh. He had none
reason to bow down. None, none
The defendant has no reason to bow down.
before a judge. That's not the problem.
What was he like in those shots?
Words throughout the entire evolving process?
Will it be as the months go by
Has he settled somewhere?
something between you? He understood that
What was the point? because he was more
so at first he was a little
provocative precisely when he
started on the first day at Barça. Uh, we have
Well, I think it's the first day.
also, there is one of
fellow inmates who had a medical emergency and everything
who didn't want to come back to the
courtroom, I had to go
to see him in his box for, uh, for
to reason with him. So when we are
back, uh, he took the floor to
to say that they were supposedly treated
like dogs in captivity. So me
I told him no, you can't
not to say it because I came to you
See, I just saw you have one there
I'm the same, I cut the grass on
the foot, explaining that these conditions
detention was apart from the fact
that they were in isolation, that's for sure
which was not at all
degrading and discriminatory, that's what it is.
There you go, he didn't have any more but
no less than that, perhaps
more in some cases than some
prisoners who are three to a cell.
Does he have anything to say that will...
shocking? Are there any sentences
where you say that's too much, then there he
go uh
So, to say that is what is being treated. Okay, fine.
later he will present himself at a
at one point, like a bit of a victim
vis-à-vis the civil parties. So that
It was a bit complicated. a day where
He was really, uh, quite odious in
in his remarks where he said
Actually, well, it's not us.
the victims and everything. So there is
some participated by applauding in a
very ironic in the room. Well, he has
They had to be stopped because it happens
No, and he continued. Okay, and there it is.
He had it once or twice, so it was...
provocation
uh
and subsequently, on the substance, he tried
to present a version
according to which he was he was
arrived, but almost at the last minute
picked up hitchhiking by the commando, huh?
who came from Belgium, uh, that he must
doing nothing normally but only at
At the last moment he had to, we had to, him.
had given him a belt
explosive and which was supposed to blow itself up
which he decided not to do. Okay, so...
he tried to present himself as yet
once upon a time, the 5th wheel of the car, what.
Except that it didn't match at all
to the elements we had in the
file, particularly regarding the fact that we
had noticed that the belt, she
it hadn't worked because there
had a malfunction
the interior that he could not
to know. So.
So maybe he tried to...
So that's what the court decided.
since there has been a verdict and a
motivation. So I'm not going to say what
what, what, what we said to each other in the
Deliberate secrecy, but there is this
motivation which has at its disposal
all where we have estimated with my
assessors that in fact everything pointed to
to believe that he had tried, that he was
He probably got off on the subway.
that he had tried to blow himself up
but that it hadn't worked. not
because there was a defect
which could not be seen from
the outside because that's what
taking apart this belt that we have
This explosive vest was later found.
we will find him later than the
experts will see that there were
connections that weren't working and
which also corroborated the fact that his
Brother Brahim Abdlam had made
explode him in the beginning of a drink
Voltaire at the counter Voltaire at
Voltaire counter or whoever wears more
Besides
and there was only one side that had
had exploded. Well, that had
He was killed, but that is to say, there
had in these explosive vests, there
had a front and a back
which was filled with bolts, which was
intended to do a lot of harm, that's all.
It still causes injuries, even at
However, there are some bolts that
have left to tell you about several
meters or even a little more than one
tens of meters who went to
to fix in the facade of a building to
what side? So it was still
This is extremely serious. Good
There. So there were still these
problems with operation and we have
estimated that in fact contrary to this
he said, he hadn't given up but
that it hadn't worked.
So it's not the same thing at all.
Ah, it's pretty much the same thing. Yes. And
which explains, after the verdict,
He was part of the commando.
terraces. He shot people or
not ?
No. So he's going to, uh, because he has
It's been acknowledged, in any case, he's going to file a claim.
the three uh terrorists who are going
to blow themselves up at the Stade de France.
He drives them there, he
leave it there knowingly.
And then he goes back to Paris.
that he is in northern France and
If he has given up, he can leave again.
Belgium direct, it's simpler by
either the 1st or the 3rd.
There, he goes back down to the 18th
district, the car is born and
there we don't know exactly what
that he did. But, uh, what we understand
of the file, since we will find by
the following is the schedule in quotation marks
attacks where it was planned
indeed, that someone goes into
the subway blows itself up to do
Many victims, and he's the one who got caught.
from a subway station and subsequently
So he will cross Paris to leave again
in Montrouge where we will find by the
following the vest, what. He explains
how the attacks. said what is
their justification, why they
Did they do that?
So, uh, once again, well, he has a
That's a somewhat delicate position. At
at the beginning, he was in the beginning as he was in the
He calls it provocation, he says, "Okay, he demands it."
almost like the attacks. Finally, yes, he said
we didn't blame the victims, we
wanted to France because France
had done was at war against the State
Islamic, except particularly in Syria.
Except that it was wrong because
we will understand that the decision of
commit his attacks in November
2015, it was taken in September 2014
by the offices of state authorities
Islamic scholars, notably Mohamed Adnani,
number 2 of the Islamic State who will
to make a big statement to say
"We will strike the West and
particularly France where we are going to attack
so, uh, by truck, by
Kalashnikov where we will be able to go everywhere
the means. So. in 2014, France
has not yet intervened in Sirac and in
in Syria and Iraq. Uh, so it was
Wrong, what? But anyway, that was it.
the argument. In fact, what we
will understand that this is September 2014
and November 2015, there are several
commandos who are going to be sent
particularly in France to commit
There were attacks in April, there were some, uh
June at Talis. That's it. There is the talis
where he was, the guy was arrested
internal to the talisman. There had been a town
Jewish, where there was nevertheless a
victim. Anyway, that's all. In
Belgium too, there had been one
realizes that there was indeed
Quite a few preparations already underway for this
at that time by people who were
went to train
in Syria under the authority of the State
Islamic, particularly in Baou, chief of
commando that will be neutralized on the 18th
november. in Saint-Denis, what.
That's, uh, you had a service of
close protection, you were finally saying
of several police officers initially who
He brought you in his car with the flashing light on.
I imagine for reasons one of
safety, two speeds, all
the days.
Not necessarily the flashing light because
In those situations, you get noticed.
So we didn't always have the
flashing light. There were others
tips with super drivers who
no, who managed to pass without, without
point it out because you shouldn't
pointing out nothing more.
And in fact, your security system
strengthened as the
trial. Why did your sal gain weight?
security?
As far as I'm concerned.
Yes. For you. So, as for me
concerns, because there has in fact been
trial begins
uh, an alert, not on social media then.
on some social networks, uh, had
was published so uh uh
Finally, a photo montage that...
then represented, I don't know, the photo
where he had taken it because yes, there you go
with behind them someone who had
one who was hooded and masked with a
Kalashnikov was threatening me and uh
He was doing that in front of his Deslam, you know. Good,
He was, he had nothing to do with it.
inside. But anyway, we understood that
It was, uh, someone who worked
for the state press organ
Islamic. Well, there you go. So, from there, starting
From the moment that happened, uh, well, me
That didn't worry me. I didn't want that
my family is. So we were very
very discreet, but there was an investigation
even though what was done and to this
at that moment there was indeed a
a slightly more reinforced device. Yeah.
How many police officers did you have at a low price?
close ? Oh, I didn't have that many.
but afterwards there were
devices, I may not be able to do everything
No, but it fits a lot of people
around you. There are, there are, there are
there is a device that is there to
to control what is happening in front, what
what happens behind the scenes, the counter-surveillance,
All of that. Okay, that's
It's several cars, well, it's
binding for you while I, me
They came to get me, I went back into
a car and then they would take me and then
I had very, very good contacts with
THE
the police officers who were really great
heavier travel and so on.
Yes, it is
You could go to the restaurant,
you can have a life between
I always use quotation marks because I imagine
that to remain also
in a finally psychological
to remain stable, we must continue to have
a life, not just doing that and continuing
to see your children, wives and so on.
So yes, that's what we could go for, like
You say, we could go out, we
one could go to a restaurant, one could
going to
theatre, but indeed we had the
protection, therefore, of the police officers who
took on the task with the direction of
the establishment so that we have a
a place reserved for them
they can leave quickly and everything. On
had the cars nearby of course
And, uh, no, it still allowed us to...
and then even just to walk around
a place to get some fresh air. We were with
Yes, them.
It didn't add any kind of atmosphere
even though it's not the same as either
Yes, that's for sure. Well, that's for sure because
that he was, we felt that good, they are
very discreet but they are very
effective. That is to say, it is
happened sometimes
to be able to meet people who
were in Paris at approximately 10 pm
viné surtqu
Yeah, that's it. Okay, so this one...
was dismissed quite quickly, you know.
Then in the rooms we had some
reserved spaces in such and such places
to avoid an evacuation
Quick too.
Did you experience that moment quite a bit?
No.
Oh no, no, it was a little bit, yes
It was a bit heavy, but oh well, it was
You know, there was a side to it, though.
Reassuring, isn't it? They were
really, so they are really very
very efficient because they are for
Most of them are very effective, but we
can't see them
during the trial. You are going to
restrooms you're going to eat they remain
They are always waiting by your side.
No, in the dance we are inside
of the palace, there are the there are the
services
There are the CS, there are the gendarmes and
All. So here we are, however, they
are indeed near the
room or in the room and as soon as we leave
they come with us to our
office and then they leave us
What. They are, they are still in
They are still in, yes, yes, I am
I remember, but actually I don't hear anymore
in the lead, but they have a room
near my office anyway
and as soon as then he doesn't tell me
Toilets, that's part of a sector that has
was completely secured with entry via
badge and then the police everywhere but
However, as soon as we leave this area
They're coming with us, right up to the
car, all the way to the restaurant if we go to the
restaurant and so on, but I'm telling you
They are very discreet because I
I know they're there, but they're making themselves
forget.
And as soon as there's something, bam, we
He sees them arrive to intervene.
There were approximately 2500 people involved in that trial.
civil parties.
Yeah. Arrival: 1800 Departure: 1800
2500 at the finish.
It's a French village.
It's a French village. But
Its size is colossal. There was
even at the Bataclan, in the hall of the
At the Bataclan, there were still 1800
people initially on the terraces.
There was, there was still, at the die, at
In total, unfortunately, we have, we regret
130 victims died.
90 at the Bataclan,
one at the Stade de France and the rest therefore
on the terraces, that is. And on the
terraces, there were many
wounded,
Seriously injured, that's what. So that explains it.
that in the end, we are all part of the same group
civilian, that is. Yes. 400 depositions, that's
You've heard that, right? It's a bit
out of the ordinary compared to what you
have lived throughout your entire career. That
This is yet another measure with all this
that you were able to experience.
Nothing to do with it.
There's a kind of atmosphere you
You told me who you nicknamed
Well, not you, but the people who
The village was there.
These are the civil parties, some
civil parties which at the start there
many of them wanted or
didn't want to come or were afraid of
come.
He saw no point in it. I was saying good
Justice, well, there was a lot of
I have doubts about that. what I can
To design, huh. Absolutely, in fact.
And so, gradually, people
They came, they reassured themselves, uh
They enjoyed seeing each other again and
So it's them who, at some point, that
I found out later, they had
nicknamed Yes. They had nicknamed the
The village hall, what else? We're going to the village
What. And there are some who who
bonds of friendship have even been formed
very, very important emotional during
during the trial, perhaps couples
which are made and there are some that
whom I was able to meet later during
of events, uh
of conferences or broadcasts
about the trial. So, with whom did I
I've maintained very, very good contacts. Uh
Well, that's it. I'm thinking of David Fritz
who is also a photographer and
journalist who is a great guy
of Chilean origin who was who
was among the hostages of the soup kitchens,
that is to say, on the floor that was guarded
by the terrorists. There you go, Aurélie
Sylvestre, who is the widow of
Mathieu, who died at the Bataclan, therefore
who is also a remarkable woman who
has written two books since then which had done
a moving testimony in court
What.
Soups
soups
I think it's François Hollande who
He gave us that term the day I think
That he stays? No, but I think he's leaving.
lunch with soups of the time in
time.
Yes, yes, time, because it has been very
very close to David Fris
notably.
Uh, so
I no longer remember the circumstances.
Finally, they had
They were received at
The Élysée Palace, no less. And it is they who
they are nicknamed soups because they
were age but they became
They were friends, they didn't know each other.
And I met them again on the 13th
last November during the
the 10th anniversary ceremony. And, uh, well,
They were, uh, I think they were
delighted to see each other again and then something
I'm also happy to be able to...
To discuss with the president, that is. Seen
François Hollande at the trial.
Yes. Yes. Ah yes, he was a great one
That moment too.
For what ? What is
Oh well, this is a big moment because
Well, it's not every day that when
We are the president or the judge who is being questioned
a president of the Republic. Good,
It's still a bit impressive.
Um, there was a lot of press coverage this
that day, obviously, and there was
some lawyers who opposed his
audition by saying that it would bring
Nothing in the file. Okay, a bit of publicity
Maybe, I don't know. But anyway, me
I was actually quite, uh, worried
of how it was going to go.
Luckily, I had prepared anyway
a number of questions because
I was expecting him to do a little
speech at the start
uh, and then we'd lay some small
question. He was quoted, he was not
cited by the prosecutor but by a lawyer
of the civil party.
Fortunately, I had prepared some
questions and above all I had
informed about the protocol because
So, what do I call it?
Oh yes,
When he arrives, well, I know how he
his name is but I still owe him
ask for your first and last name
professional. So. and lend, say, all
the truth
or he had inquired, he
He was expecting that, though. And me, well
fortunately, because at the beginning he was
surprised because I saw it again
not too long ago, when
at a ceremony, he told me
said "I didn't expect you to..."
"Ask that." I said, "Well, yes, you
"Sure, but that's how it is." But me, I
I was old, you have to know how I
He called her because I didn't want to.
more
Yeah. Put it on a different level
other
on putting on a different level which
could have said that I wasn't neutral
It's always the same there. Okay, I'm
information provided by several intermediaries
and I arrive at the protocol service which
He told me, "Well no, he has an exercise," he said.
You must say hello to him, sir.
"President." You can't even say hello
Sir, what? Finally, you can but
That's just not right. Hello sir
president. So he reaches the end
of
He was more of a president then.
He was no longer there, but he retains the title.
He retains the title.
He arrives after two hours of debate.
of lawyers who refused. So we,
We withdraw with the court, we accept
his testimony, it comes from the depths of the
He settles there and I tell him
Say "Good morning, Mr. President." He
He replied, "Hello sir,
president." And it's the same thing there, you know
A little relaxation sets in, little
smile and
And there you have it. And well, what do you
So, name, surname, profession
he gives a very quick little speech to
the intention of the victims by saying
that he is very close to them, understands their
The pain is terrible, which
happened that and so on and so forth
presents the regrets of the French State
at the time, which represented itself in
as president and then afterwards he told me
Okay, I'll answer the questions.
Luckily, I had prepared some
A few, that is.
Because he came for what reason?
to speak to him, it was mainly for
speak to
He is quoted by Ben, that is to say, he
was therefore cited by one of the parties
civilians. There had been, if you will,
in parallel with the investigation
criminal, there was a commission
parliamentary inquiry and there had been
There were, however, some controversies surrounding the
The fact is that, well, the French state didn't have
He did the job, he shouldn't have, there
had certain civil parties who
were very upset, they said
"But we should have protected all the
performance venues, since, uh, there are
had threats against
"We could have known." Ah, that's
But we couldn't protect everyone
the theaters, all the
movie theaters, all the theaters where
there were cancers, it wasn't
possible, what? And so, there you have it.
He was mentioned, and there were fears that there was a
controversy. So, there are a few
lawyers nonetheless who are one or
two lawyers who tried to bring him
On this good ground, he responded this
that he had to answer
And then the defense side was handled by the lawyer.
from Saldlam who also wanted to bring him
on the fact that, well, if there had been his
attacks, it's because France
had participated in the coalition. This at
What ? He replied that no, it was
after which. That was back in 2000, uh
that at the end of 2014 France had
participated in the coalition while the
The decision to carry out the attacks had already been made.
socket
socket.
You were talking about a testimony a while ago.
2 minutes ago, when you were talking, it happened
A superb testimony. What is the
testimony that affected you the most
precisely during these 10 months or is it
that there are one or two who have
brand ? Yeah, well, I'm talking about Auréli
Sylvestre, but there have been plenty of them
others. David's, C'est's
It's complicated to sort through it.
to bring out a more particular one. There are some
a and there's one that comes at the end and
which is also supported by one or
two people and he really had us
This boy is impressive. I hope he
Nothing happened to him because he does
He was a boy who was at the Bataclan
And who was able to escape?
immediately.
The terrorists arrived, him
left through the door by the door of
side. Well, he walked on legs. C
Well, there are plenty who could have who
They did that, what? He fled, he
escaped and
He tried to forget about it, that's all.
And then it came back
in his head after 3 or 4 years and then he
He had a major depression and he
came to the hearing to tell this story.
He was crying, saying, "I did
something not good, I took the
I ran away, I stepped on people.
Maybe they were dead, maybe
They weren't dead.
But anyway, I had to reassure him
by saying, well, anyone would have
You did as you did, you saved your
skin and that's it. You shouldn't, it's
Not you, you are a victim, you are
You are just a victim, that's all.
But this boy was very
impressive. We were all taken aback.
Uh, then there was another one who
made us smile a little because he
There were several. Yes. who us
brought a few smiles.
Guillaume, he was also called, he
was, uh, so he had tried to
He also escaped at the Bataclan, he left on
the side of the room, he passes under a
a kind of cardboard pile, it
He goes back up, he thinks he's outside and he
finds himself on stage facing one of the
terrorists
who plays with his Kalashnikov like in
the external western voices and he said
Okay, that's it, I'm dead.
We're at the end of 10 minutes
of an attack. He has I don't know how many
Dozens already dead.
And he has presence of mind, that's
that he sees two police officers. There are two
police officers arrive at the beginning. Yeah.
Two police officers arrive, one
commissioner and then his driver and
which will neutralize precisely
uh, the terrorist who is facing him
who is playing with Salashnikov. I will
I won't say his name, I'm not going to...
advertising. Okay, who plays like that?
And he said to himself, he sees that, he sees the
guy opposite
that the threat and the other two, there is
The two terrorist accomplices, they are
upstairs. They have already taken the places where they
are they about to take
hostages. Well, there's one of the two
who tells his accomplice who is downstairs
He then said, "But what are you doing?"
there ? "Take him down too." Good fat guy
Okay, so the other guy thinks to himself, "I'm dead."
"What?" And the other one said, "No, no, he
"Are you with us? Are you with us?" And the
The guy replies, "Yes, yes, I'm with you."
"What?" He puts them in the air and everything. He
He senses his final arrival, his last
Minute, what. And then, at the same time as he
He said that, and saw the two police officers.
He sees a light and he throws himself into it
the pit
at that time.
So, the police shoot the
terrorist who is on believe he
explodes. He taps,
It explodes.
So, as a result, he escapes from the
It's a miracle because he doesn't get shot.
on top and it doesn't get shredded by
police officer of the B and
He throws himself into the air. on the in the shaft and
Then he ran away and he...
Tell this calmly, with a...
distance, a detachment, that's it.
detachment
We couldn't believe it, but then I told him
I asked the question, is it okay? Is it good?
limit you
but it's really it was
almost not worrying, but he said to himself, but
He was perfectly sensible, but he had
Well managed, that's 2020, 21, 22, 6 years
So after that he had seen a follow-up
Psychologically, he had, he had done well
neat,
He was well cared for, he had recovered.
He had it, but there were some
others who just couldn't make it.
So that's why I say there was that
others who were going around in circles but
Who was it? We often sensed that he
It was, it was awful.
So.
You're going to hear from all the police officers
you are going to hear from this gentleman from
BAC for example. Is it that all
active participants there for the occasion
Did you hear him?
The one that the commissioner
who came back first. Yes
yes yes yes yes yes. He was heard.
He was anonymous, but he told us
gave an extraordinary testimony there
Also. He explains to us, in fact
He didn't come to talk.
Yes, he did come to the stand. Yes
but without revealing his identity.
All right. without giving his identity
to have protection and him
He explains that he is actually in his
car with its driver. Okay, that
reminds me a little of the film which is
released in November
with people from the garden.
Yeah, that's it.
That's very interesting because of it.
because we can see the panic that could
to finally seize the panic the the
total chaos, that's what it was destined for within
police services. He
is in his car with his driver
and he said ah at the beginning Stade de France.
Ah, we're heading towards the Stade de France and
All. Oh no, wait, there are the
terraces. Okay, let's go. All right.
OK, we're changing our destination. Good,
It's confusing.
It's exploding everywhere.
So he stops, he explains, he
does indeed stop, he tells his
Driver, wait, let me think, we'll
see what we're doing. And there, he learns
that he had the Bataclan hostage situation. He
He said, "We're going to the Bataclan."
He arrives there. So, it has already
begin. There were shots fired, there are...
There are people who have died outside.
He goes home and then, uh, he thinks to himself, "Well then
We'll see, I'm just doing my job."
And I think it's him who calls
his wife to tell him "Listen, I
I love you, I'm not sure I'll see you again this
evening." And he goes home. Well, he's a hero.
What. A
Her gives me chills.
Oh yes,
that's every police officer's dream
to defend someone to the very end.
Ah yes, yes, or
he really did the job of
police officer, which is why he had to enlist
What.
Yes, but he says that with a lot of...
I'm the one saying that, he says that.
he tells this story with great modesty and
I was just doing my job, that's all. So.
Wow! Hat ! Hat ! because he
saved him right there
that one
right away and probably later others
Who
others because in fact as they
will neutralize one of the tr
Well, that's still more than that.
that the two who will remain at the top who
will, uh, who will keep people in
hostage.
That certainly shakes up the strategy.
Especially since everything we understand in
In fact, there might have been four of them.
There should normally have been four of them
Baccalaureate, but since there is a defection of
Abrini's share, therefore, which the day before the
attacks that go back, it goes back in
Belgium on the eve of the attacks
He's leaving the team. So he
there was one who was they were
four planned a priori from what we
includes going to the Bataclan. There are some
a tr there is one of them who will
to be picked up by the team to go to
Stade de France.
At the time, it was one of the tr who was going to se
to explode near McDonald's.
And you're talking about an Aristi Barreau made
who did
Yes, that touched you too.
Yeah, that's exactly right. Yes, I tell you
It's complicated to get out of it for the
Or
He has a lot of humanity because
uh, so it's a rugby that's played in
Italian team since now the
with the selections where there may be
foreigners who play in our company, we have
people of foreign origin who
They also play for the French national team.
So he was a great hope of
rugby and that evening, so he was at
Canillon arrives with his sister and then
friends and it immediately hits him
because he sees people arriving, he
They get away with a weapon, he throws
his sister on the ground, he throws himself by
against her to protect her. So he will
take two or three balls, ankle
lung, well, it's saved by
miracle. He was miraculously saved because
that, uh, in the building which is just
above the Caraillon or Petit
Cambodia, I don't remember which one it was
Exactly, there is an emergency room doctor
who goes down and who actually knows him,
Who knows this boy who says "But
Wait, what are you doing here?
Aristide?" And so, then there's his
sister who was nevertheless seriously
injured but trying to...
to rescue his friends. Yeah. who was
touched, uh, who told him, uh, hold on
Don't leave, don't leave. So the
doctor also who makes the first sounds
who says I am here, I am here you and he
will tell that in fact these people have
saved because they are
left
who were leaving
but afterwards he had one of the operations of
rehabilitation. He wrote a book that I
kindly addressed who was really
It's very exciting, you know. He lived
These were truly very difficult times. HAS
At one point he wanted it at all costs
I went back to rugby, but it was too much.
hard. his body plus he did the
depressed. Anyway, it was tough.
What. But, and but, in the end he said good
Well, now I'm angry with them.
not. He wasn't even looking at them.
I don't want to. That's how it is. It's a
This is a challenge for me. I see it as a
trial and I'm glad he's here
assisting the lawyer and everything for the
Dude, a lesson in humanity. And there, precisely,
I was there, I had trouble getting back into it
my breath at that moment because
I was, he was one of the first
testimonies,
I was glued to this
A bird's-eye view, that's what it is. Wow!
They never apologized.
If they asked. Yeah, yeah. They
have, uh, especially those who were the
less involved, what, uh, who was who
It really smelled, uh, there was one
who was right, he was the only one
against which no one has retained the
terrorist character, but he had been
intermediary to supply fakes
papers to certain members of the cell
who was in Belgium who is going to
who are going to blow themselves up on March 22nd
2016 in Brussels.
So he knew, yeah. the airport
And on the subway there, he knew them.
the two brothers there and so he was
involved in that. Well, uh, as
that intermediary
between customers and suppliers
But anyway, we considered that, and
Anyway, we all have
considering that he is not aware
of
I didn't know that's what it was for or
He didn't know that was why.
He knew, he certainly didn't know that they
had this image, finally this
uh, this terrorist function because
la la la how to say the infra action
criminal association
terrorists, we can hold her back
even if the person doesn't know what the
project, but as long as we agree
to someone we actually know
terrorist.
If you're talking about humans here, you're going to
Are you going to watch the videos?
photos of the interior too for the
cut ? Things that are very difficult to see
?
Ah yes yes well yes well yes yes yes well
of course it's the first contact that
I have the file, okay? The first
contact with the file is the
photographs taken by the identity
judicial. Finally, the police instigators
scientists who will take the photos
crime scenes, terraces, the
Stade de France, the Bataclan with all
these deceased people and the question
It was a difficult question, by the way.
who had asked herself what we
was going to show broadcast therefore to
the audience, that is
because there are families of
There were families. Well, I say
The question is whether we can see faces.
Victims, that's what they are, because that's fine.
It's too harsh, basically. especially since it was
We had several screens, there
had about ten screens in the room
since the room was 45 m long
anyway. So there you have it.
That's impressive, and behind me.
behind us, there was a huge
uh a huge screen uh on which was
so the albums were indeed projected
photos. So we could very clearly see very
to see, uh, the looks
deceased persons. It is, it is
appalling. And I see that, well I
discovers it. I talked about emotion all the time.
the time. That's where we receive a little bit of...
we feel
when we review the file,
We can receive and feel, I'm going there
anger to arise somewhere
right, uh, to say to oneself "But it's not
It's possible, how could we have done something like that?
Same thing, when you see these young people, he
there is on the terrace at the terrace of the
Caraillon there, there are two sisters two
Two sisters who are devastated, that's all.
So, two twin sisters, then. Okay, that's it.
appalling, what for, for whom is
drinking a glass for
The birthday for this, for that. And
people just arrive like that
He massacres them with Kalashnikovs.
with a certain added enjoyment. That
That's what we were told. Notably
d'Aba, what else? He proved to enjoy shooting
to kill, to kill people, especially in the
great team at the restaurant
What a great team, where there were 21 deaths, what else?
They recharged at some point. Good
So far away there are the videos you have
surveillance videos also
every time.
No, there are videos, there are
had some but they had
It didn't work. There was someone who
No, but there were survivors.
Yes. Who survived who could say but
Yes, but there's one who said
stop stop please please they have
They recharged, but no, they just kept going.
some some some
Bloodthirsty lunatics, that's what they are. I don't know, I
I don't know how to put it.
If there's a photo that remains with you...
head. Is there
There are many of them there too.
It's difficult.
I'm telling you. I have it, it's it
those young women, the sisters there at
Bataclan at the
Carillon. Yes, there is also in Baclan
had two
two very young women
almost a young girl, I'd say 18 or 19.
at the same time that found behind the
behind the bar of the Bataclan which
they were holding onto each other on the ground. They
tried to protect themselves by holding on
like that and the individual the energy
human, I don't know how we can
to say the Serbs you arrived, he has them
shot down like that. That's right.
When you see that, it's nothing but...
think. So. Very difficult. It's very, very
hard.
Have there been more moments?
lightweight? Will it be within these 10 months?
There were surprisingly some genuine laughs in
The room? Maybe even a laugh.
someone is saying something that didn't happen
It has nothing to do with it, and it loosens up at the end.
from one moment to 10 months together.
Do you go through phases one
a little more
light? There are some slightly more intense phases
slight when then at the beginning no
since there is a description of the scenes
That crime was very, very, very hard.
full of drama.
Then, there is what in some
hearings of the civil party
uh, there was one in particular, one
young girl who was doing
law student who had lost her mother
It seems to me. I hope I
Don't be fooled, and who was therefore trying to
who had tried, who had succeeded when
even though she was of good stock, she was
Quite a strong presence in the audience, actually.
And so she's going to say, "Okay, I'll do law."
and everything. Ah, I say that's a very good one.
idea to do What year are you in
? Ben, second year of law school. Ah, well, I say
Yeah, second year of law school, well, that's it.
the most interesting. Done
responsibility
At least that's how it was in my day. And
Then she answered me in a very loud voice. No, it's
Not at all anymore. It's no longer your time
eh. It's in a very... when
She sends me back when I'm in the goal
What. So, well
So, so, I'm finally going to be a
I'm a little angry, but I don't know at all.
Even so, and all that. So the room
understands that there is a little game involved
And then there was a great burst of laughter.
Here too. Then there was another one
always.
So these are two survivors from the...
Bataclan, a man and a woman who
are known at that time. They are at
the floor and so she describes it
She panicked, she was... she could
she couldn't move anymore.
She is already upstairs for
assisting with cancer. Behind him, there is
a gentleman who
who doesn't move. And uh
and at that moment, there are the two
terrorists are rising up, or where they will go.
What's she going to do? She'll see them go by. And
Even before he got on, he said
"Listen, madam, we're not going to stay here. He
There are crowd movements that
are happening. So, there is, it's the
They say despair gives you wings.
There are people who will still go
to climb, to arrive at, to seize up, indeed
a window, finally a kind of pu
of light with one that is 3 m from
height above a staircase. We
asks how they did it. We can see it
Moreover, we see this in these people
who will be featured in the report
Netflix. I went there myself, I
Tell me, how did they do what? He
There was a table and everything, but how
How did they get up there? SO
Many have taken refuge
in completely
unlikely. About ten in one in one
kind of electrical cupboard
which is 2 m².
Uh, others who were therefore in the
false ceilings, well, it was, it is there
at some point there are some they are
left in a small room, there were 40 of them there.
to break through the false ceiling. There is a
a young woman there who went up
on whom was helped by two of two
men and who broke the false ceiling.
uh, with his feet, the gentleman said uh
We have to leave, we're going to leave with them.
No, no, she's paralyzed with fear, unable to
to move. And then there are the terrorists.
who arrive, h
They go up, they pass by them, he
I don't see them.
But what?
We're doing well because in fact the room of
the Bataclan is a kind of
rounded and they are at the bottom of
rounding. So they go up, they go
go directly to the people who are
who are going to take a hostage and
then afterwards in the corridor more
far. Okay, there you go. And so she describes
All of that. She said, "This gentleman, he was..."
extraordinary because, as a result, instead
"He didn't want to leave, but he stayed with me." I
I told him, "No, I can't move,
"Go ahead, you." Okay then, I
stay with you. Another hero, what else?
And uh
So she gives her first name, and all that. He
said, "Well, frankly, this guy is
"Extraordinary." Okay, next witness,
next participle, the guy, uh, it was
He was the guy in question who
He was a railway worker and a member of the CGT SNCF union.
He made us laugh too because he
Well, he went on some short outings on
SNCF, which finally shows I have more
humor about the fact that he wasn't he
had not left on time, so he was
He stayed exactly as he had been. But
It was there, and I saw him coming, oh well
You're the famous thing, I know.
What else, what was his first name? Good,
He brought us a lot of
lightness at the same time, because it
It made the room laugh, that's for sure. There was
Things like that were mostly from
part of the victims.
You will deliver the verdict on the 29th
June, right? You are going to announce the
the penalties. You are the one announcing the
Is that enough for you, or is it difficult?
Yes, yes, yes.
That's the president's responsibility. It is
Ah, well, that's the end. So then I do
a short summary because we did a
120-page motivation document. So I had
Don't read everything because the accused...
For many, this has been the case for 5 or 6 years.
that they are in detention, they are waiting
The only thing that matters is the verdict. They
most of them know that they are going to be
Having been sentenced, they want to know the sentence.
So I start reading, well, everything
by briefly summarizing the 120 pages and
Then, the microphone fails again.
at 3/4 of the deliberation.
Uh, suddenly it stops completely. SO
General panic, how did they do it?
and everything. Finally, there was nothing left.
which worked.
So the people, the journalists, who
are in the press room
everyone in the room because they see
more. There's more screen, there's more
Nothing, there's no more sound. And well, here I
We have to keep going, we're not going to
wait until it's been handed over because the
others were still waiting for the
The accused are being held there. So I'm recovering
then another micro microch which
it works and so I continue the
reading of the verdict. And that's it.
You have the power. It's you who decides.
penalties. Who decided on the sentence? All
the court, that is to say, it is the
magistrates. So we are then dealing with...
Regarding terrorism, only the magistrates are involved.
professionals. There are five of us.
professionals. So there are four on
there were nine in total because there were
four colleagues, but who were
additional colleagues
substitutes who could replace us
replace one of us if someone
had therefore been suffering or ill one
accident. Everyone stayed
to the very end. They were really
formidable. I had a team that...
helped considerably to hold on because
we would sometimes finish the hearings
Quite late, nobody left in
common at home.
We debriefed on what had been
difficult during the day. We were discussing
of all that. We had a room
restoration, what. Okay, there you go. Uh, so
but otherwise it's the five by majority vote.
YOU
That's what happens in the teacher's class, that's what you
cinema in a room.
That we are in a room.
No phone. No phone.
No. And how does it work across
The secret of what you said? But
How does it work?
So, this was in a room, we
was elsewhere because we were, we are
They left for three days to deliberate. THE
The deliberation lasted 3 days. So we were
in about fifteen gendarmerie stations, I
I'm not going to tell you where, but who was
extremely well protected, by the way, with the GIGN
all around so we can be at peace
What. And there, we each had our own room.
and then we worked all day
Then the next day, we would start again, then we
They ate there for 3 days straight.
And you dealt with each case individually, you
said good to him,
There,
What do we do? Well, first of all, uh
discuss guilt on this point.
Are they guilty? Because
There were some who were, uh
prosecuted for complicity
of assassinations, others who were uh
uh
prosecuted only for, in quotation marks,
acts of criminal conspiracy
for having participated in the association of
terrorists. SO
It wasn't the same case. There were some
some who pleaded for acquittal
saying "I was aware of
"Nothing." So we still had to
There was no acquittal there for the
There was no acquittal.
That's the smallest penalty, that has
summer
It's been two years for the one who, uh, against
which one we didn't choose, that's it.
The terrorist aspect was not taken into account.
And the maximum was Salab of Islam.
It was the Salab of Islam. Perpetuity
incompressible perpetuity.
Incompressible. That means that he
will never be able to get out.
So that means we can't
pronouncement of an adjustment to his sentence
during the first 30 years
detention. After 30 years, we
reviewing his case with
then psychological assessment,
psychiatric, social inquiry, survey
environment.
We can see a little bit of how they are
behavior in detention. What is it?
What could he have done? Does he have... uh, is it
that he demonstrated, uh, of, of, of
Repentance? Did he go back into
the rank? Is that it, and so on?
So, and there
uh, once we've done all these
examinations, his case is being examined again
if he eventually asks for a
parole, something like
That.
And how will the accused react?
there ?
So no, it's Lespin, they are very
silent.
They were waiting for it.
the sanction.
I don't think that includes everything.
The fact that it is incompressible. He
perpetual meaning perpetuity.
Br also the others they hear 30
years. Well, there are no comments, nothing.
Not at all. The lawyers, nobody says anything.
Neither were those in the audience. It is
A truly respectful silence.
what of
the work of justice.
You can't make a call right now?
If
if
Yes, but no one appealed.
No one appealed.
Yeah. They were told they needed 10 days
to appeal and nobody did
call. I thought Salabdislam
to appeal since he had
maximum
So, those are the most important ones.
I thought there would be, but there is
I didn't get any calls at all. That was a
Great satisfaction too, so no...
pride, but also to say, well, we're not
not obliged to restart this trial on
months with all that stuff
demand as energy as mobilization
Forces, that is.
The process makes you debited
Announce the sentences and how you will carry them out.
live? Is there some kind of
vertigo ? a little dizzying like that
does 10 months in a row plus all the
preparation before and suddenly it's the end of
something. You know that's
something historical how you
Are you experiencing it?
Well, first of all, relief, relief that we
reached the end because there is
quite a few people who
doubted that this trial could happen
its term because for multiple
reasons, it was too long, too
complicated, there were far too many
uh, of the mist
through certain measures of
testimony. For example, the
Belgian police wanted at all costs
to be interviewed anonymously. SO
The lawyers objected, so we could
fear of procedural incidents
which could lead us to interrupt
the trial. We've already made it this far.
end. Well, first of all, great satisfaction, that's it!
It's over. And especially on the last day, I
I'm telling you, well, we had done this
motivation that we had written during the
3 days, uh, and there was a proofreading
which was necessary since we have to uh
therefore produce the decision immediately
and therefore give it to the lawyers
and so there were perhaps some
minor corrections to be made which do not
They never ended. Well, we were there
We had since returned to the palace at 5 a.m.
In the afternoon and at 8 p.m., we had
The decision has not yet been made. I
I knew from the coordinator that there was
many people who were there that
was starting to get a little excited. I say he
We have to go. Well, I was really a
slightly tense. The microphone malfunction, that and then what?
It's over. But then the relief
What. That's a relief.
And at the same time, you missed it.
It's... I imagine you have... we have...
human contact that we all see
his colleagues during the day. I'm talking about
of the others who participated for the
justice. Did you suddenly
Find yourself alone?
Ah, it's a great void. Then in the evening,
We stayed together for a good while.
part of the evening to debrief as
We say it to blow off steam. Uh, after that, we
met again a few days later
because there was what is called
the civil hearing. Uh, the audience
Civil, it's a hearing which then...
it no longer concerns them, it does concern them
Sure about the accused, but we're just debating here
on the admissibility of the constitutions of
civil party. Is this person
Can they claim compensation? On
no ruling on it, we don't judge it
compensation, but we can say such
no one has the right, or no one does.
The law in detail. You are in the
street, you are in the firing range of
terrorists in front of the Bataclan or in front of
the terraces. You are a victim part
civil. If you are at
For 300m you can only hear shouts.
You are shocked, but you are not
victim of these acts. So it was necessary
to sort through. That's what we called
The unfortunate witnesses, that's what they were. There are
people who were nonetheless impacted
but which were not in line with
so we couldn't recognize them
this possibility of forming oneself.
It's complicated, it's a concept of
It's right, but you have to understand it.
So we had yet another one
Hearing on July 5th. After that we were
received because, after all, it was a
trial quite quite
important. We were received by the
course leaders and also at the ministry
justice by the minister
Who was who back then?
But it was a good morning.
What have you been doing today since the
Is this big thought done? YOU
wanted to retire a few
years later in 2019 when you were
I suggested that. What are you doing?
Today ? So today, well I
Do some training, uh.
that is to say, I intervene with
from some colleagues, uh, for, uh
who fights against terrorism.
I speak at the school of the
the judiciary also for vis-à-vis the
auditors, future magistrates.
Well, I wrote with
Indeed Mariano, this book and that
It took us quite a while, but it
was a very interesting discovery
working with Marianne because it's
someone really she is very very
GOOD.
Published by Flammarion. There you go, I... you... I
you rems,
I recommend
in the description of here is the
YouTube video, you can find
directly the clickable link for the
Order in 2 seconds. Memoirs
from a judge in the Dominicie case
trial of November 13, Jean-Louis Perriè
and as an audio podcast. If you follow us
on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Amazon
Podcast, thank you for making this a legend!
France's first podcast. YOU
You can see in the description of
you can watch the episode directly
Click on it and you will have all the
links. Um, are there others?
projects there? So, I sit
occasionally as a magistrate in
hourly. So then I complete the
Ace class, but I do that from
Less and less. So let's say that here
Now I'm going to read this book.
After that, I had a few interviews
there for a few encounters
Also interesting. There are I am
invited to participate in
conferences specifically on terrorism
And what about the trial? So, that's it.
Really, uh, it's very, it's very, very
variable. It can be in front of
high schools. I turned it into a high school, the Canal
Not long ago. It could be
universities. I went to the Sorbonne
especially Dauphine right after. Good
People are quite interested in
to know how in fact one
We prepare and manage such a trial, you know.
What did you like the most?
in your profession in your
career ?
What did I like the most?
Yes.
As a function?
Yes.
Ah, it's complicated. investigating judge
and presiding judge. Yes,
It's the human side. What do you have?
that you have in mind? Yeah.
Wow, there are no murders that
resembles another, no defendant who
looks like another one. even we talk about
That, we're talking about a lot of
femicides and all that, but even in this
In this kind of case, it's never the same, it's
They never do the same thing, you know. It's never
the same personalities that we to whom we
will have to do as much on the victim side
than author. And well, for example, I know
that there is a plan to establish this
which is called play bargaining,
that is to say the cuttable PL in front of the
seats. It seems really complicated to me
I can do without that human gaze
that one can have with the jurors
particularly for these facts
the most serious, for the effect of
murder, in particular, where it is not enough to
to display a price, that is. We need to go
to know the bottom line
What caused this individual to go
commit the worst at some point
What.
What is it that you... What is it that you...
makes you the proudest of everything you
Have you done it? Uh, proud, uh, me, I have
I'm doing my job, okay? I don't have
I have the satisfaction of having done my
work. Should I be proud of
That ? No, I'm not sure because well
we are, we are paid, in quotes, to
That. I did it to, uh
This profession is actually a calling.
It's more than just a job. Okay, we...
not just for
financial satisfactions because
that we are paid by the State. SO
we are agents of the State even if we are not
Not quite a civil servant. SO
It's not amazing what we're paying. We are on
Not for that as a teacher. It is
The same. I think there's a kind of
of will at some point
to contribute to the spirit of
justice, to a kind of restoration
of inequality because a crime is to
At some point, it's unfair.
What. Simply put, there is someone
who was, uh, his life was taken by
injustice. Well, there you have it, we have me
I'm trying to restore that, you know. That's it
which I tried my best to do and
If it's done, well, there you go. Here I am
Proud to have done it. All right. How much
We can hope to win if there is someone who has
Do you want to do the same as you? It could be
What about the scales when we start this?
job ? So I don't know anymore right now
when you start, when you go to school
The judiciary was talking about salaries
of
So I wouldn't know how to tell you...
certainly talking nonsense at the moment
current because they had been anyway
It has been greatly revalued since I
I think I started that
leaving school with some, so there is
a raw material and then there are indignities of
The function is not based on bonuses but
functional characteristics according to the following
the functions that we perform, that is to say
the investigating judges, the prosecutors, they
have on-call duties, so they are the ones we can
That's better pay than the others. He must
to be at 2500 to start and roughly
uh, when we end up at the court of
If it's appealed, it should end up at 8,900. That's
It's not like it's a lot of money either.
phenomenal. 9000
If we reach 10,000. Yes, the most
large, the most responsible but under
With all due reservations, of course.
Thank you for replying to
It's a pleasure. I want to...
meet. Thank you for having us
follow up. Are you going to read the
comments or are you reading
not the comments on social media
social?
Ah, on social media, uh, no.
I admit that I'm not necessarily going to have
the comments
Perhaps your children will read it. Yes,
Yes, that's it. My children, perhaps.
but
Uh no, no, I don't really.
If you were at the trial, we know
Never. If you want to put some
kind messages under the video, you
You can go there in the comments, you
You can like it. Thank you for subscribing.
150,000 - 200,000 subscribers
each month more to our channel. SO
Thank you for being more and more numerous.
Thank you for making the people the first
podcast from France once again on
Spotify, 10er, Apple Podcast, Amazon
Podcast, you can listen to us on the
road, at work, anytime, with
headphones or elsewhere. In any case,
Thank you for being here. Thank you to the whole team
for having prepared the show with me. I
Sending you kisses and see you very soon.
quickly every Wednesday, Friday and
Sunday for the next video on
people. Hi everyone.
