So Dan, before we even get into product
development or plan design or the
options that are available to
participants, I think it's helpful to
take a step back and just tell us where
we're at in this whole journey. This
seems to have really picked up steam in
the news over the last 18 months or so.
But if you were to take a look at where
we're at today versus where we're going
in the future, where are we in that life
cycle? People say that we are in the
early innings of this effort to bring
private markets to define contribution.
It's even earlier than that. I think
we're still in spring training in terms
of making sure people understand exactly
what they can access and how. Partners
Group's been at the forefront of making
sure that we understand and we can
educate our clients on what they have
access to. But we're at the early
innings in terms of adoption because the
masses have not been able to take
advantage. As we've talked about, it's
only the most sophisticated and
well-resourced plans that have been able
to provide access to private markets.
And that's what this administration is
keenly focused on. One is what's the
most effective way to allow fiduciaries
to make the best decision on behalf of
their participants. One thing is clear,
this might not be for everybody, but it
has to be up to the fiduciary to decide
on behalf of the plan and plan
participants whether or not that's the
case. And I know that Department of
Labor is working towards the February
deadline for the executive order. A
large piece of that will be how do we
make it so that these asset classes
which are the majority of investment
opportunity out there given the state of
public markets. How are these asset
classes more accessible to the rank and
file investors who require access to
what pensions have been accessing for
many years which puts them in the best
scenario to retire successfully. [music]
>> Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, [music] we say goodbye to tired
market takes and superficial sound
bites. Because here, instead [music] of
skimming the surface, we dive into the
heart of capital allocation, striking
the perfect [music] balance and exposing
the subtleties that reveal the topic's
true essence. Prepare to have your
perspectives [music] challenged as we
open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. [music]
We've enlisted the wisdom of visionary
leaders in the industry. And just like a
meticulously crafted wine will allow
their insights to breathe, unfurling
[music] their hidden depths and
transforming our understanding.
[music]
This is season 3, episode 4. [music]
Private markets are coming for your 401k
plans. I'm John Bowman.
>> And I'm Aaron Philbeck.
>> And we are your hosts. Well, for the
third year in a row, our title sponsor
is once again our friends over at
Alternatives for Franklin Templeton.
They have been just a constant in
supporting our efforts to bring
compelling educational content to life
here at Ka, both on this podcast and
elsewhere. Franklin Templeton has over
40 years of alt investing experience.
Over 260 billion of AUM now, Franklin
Templeton's specialist investment
managers have expertise across six
different asset classes. real estate,
private equity, private credit, hedged
strategies, venture capital, and digital
assets. And of course, all of them
operate with the client first mentality
that has always defined Franklin
Templeton to help prioritize investment
outcomes. So, thanks as always,
Alternatives by Franklin Templeton.
Well, Aaron, it has been quite a
monumental year in Washington. And I
could just put a period there and we
could have a long conversation, but I'm
specifically talking about the summer of
2025. Washington pulled off one of the
most consequential shifts, you could
say, in US retirement policy in decades.
In August specifically, President Trump
signed an executive order expanding 401k
investment options, specifically
advising an easing of restrictions to
allow plan sponsors and underlying
savers access to private markets as well
as digital assets. So, at face value, I
think my opinion would be that these are
welcome advancements. It was simply no
longer politically or socially
acceptable to reserve these asset
classes to the ultra rich or the large
institutions any longer. And of course,
diversification, as we at Kaya have said
for 24 years, is the cornerstone of
prudent long-term investing. And so,
these segments of the economy were just
too big to ignore anymore. But all
progress, of course, is accompanied by
potential peril. And we may be solving
with this new executive order the access
problem. But perhaps underestimating
other hazards, structural challenges,
other risks. Because access, of course,
without education and transparency and
safeguards is just a risk masquerading
as progress. Democratization isn't just
about who gets in. It's about making
sure that they thrive once they're
there. So there are approximately 46
trillion US of US retirement assets. The
largest of that segment is in IAS,
individual retirement accounts, followed
by about 13 trillion of defined
contribution plans. That is of course
our topic today. So scoping that out 13
trillion approximately that has now
exceeded the 12 trillion in DB plans
combination of both government and
private or corporate DB plans and the
remaining 3 trillion is in annuities. So
it's a big big pool of cash and monies
that needs proper investment and
stewardship. So, of the 13 trillion of
DC assets, as I mentioned a moment ago,
about seven of 10 US workers have access
to a 401k or an equivalent. And my
understanding is just over half of that
70% 56% or so participate in their
corporate DC plan. Now, the response
from this executive order has been fast
and furious from the industry. Black
Rockck, State Street, Empower, Partners
Group, Fidelity, Naveen, JP Morgan, and
many others are beginning to design and
or even launch retirement solutions with
private market sleeves. The response
elsewhere across the interwebs and mass
media, however, not so much. That has
been more circumspective. In some cases,
bordering on what you might call
apocalyptic in its nature. So, how could
there be such polarizing views of
allowing more choices to retirees? You
might ask. One camp sees this as the
nectar of the gods and the other as
nothing more than snake oil. So this is
a classic lightning rod topic born
designed from the start for capital
decanted. It is a modern-day story of
the Montigus and the Capulet, the
greasers and the soas. Tupac versus
Biggie. Daniel Laruso vers Johnny
Lawrence. Should 401k participants have
access to private markets that is the
question we're going to tackle today.
And as with all these acrimonious
debates in investment profession
history, this one is layered. It's
nuanced. It's complex. It is not black
and white. As you might assume, if you
read anything on social media or in mass
media, we could use a little less carnal
passion, a healthier dose of honest
assessment of the trade-offs and the
risks and the rewards, the costs and the
benefits. As much as the Montigus and
the Capulets want to paint this as a
black and white or good versus evil
issue, it is just not that simple. So,
we're going to begin this episode by
zooming out to some important framing
questions before we dive into some of
those structural considerations. First,
what are we actually solving for? What
is the problem? Is there a problem or a
weakness, you might say, with the
current system that even should suggest
that we should debate the merits of
adding something different or offering
more opportunity? Second, are there
other models or examples around the
world that we can look to as proof
points or on the other hand cautionary
tales as the US considers implementation
of something new? And third, why now?
What are the catalysts that make today
in this case recording in 2026 the right
time to have this debate and to consider
such a monumental change? And finally,
as I've alluded to, if we're going to do
this, what are the structural
considerations and the risks that are
necessary so that when we implement
this, we are protecting underlying
investors and savers and citizens. So,
in preparation for this episode, as
always, we've had a number of
informative and helpful interactions,
read a ton across that spectrum of
opinion I described earlier, and today
you'll be hearing from two of those
conversations to help bring light to
this subject. First is Dan Cahill. He is
head of US defined contribution at
partners group and Drew Carrington who's
a member of KA and is the managing
director of alternatives quite newly
minted manager director of alternatives
in retirement portfolios at I Capital.
So those guests will join us and be
interspersed throughout the narrative in
the coming minutes. So Aaron with that
introduction in mind how has this
tension entered your preparation? Have
you felt the heat as you've read and
studied and chatted with others on this
subject?
>> I certainly hope the end of this is not
the same as Romeo and Juliet cuz if you
remember John that didn't end well. So I
hope we have a better ending coming out
of this discussion and where this
ultimately goes from a regulatory
perspective. But I think when I was
preparing for this a lot of the focus
has been on the product side. So how do
we get access to product to the
individual participant in these DC
plans? How do we build product that's
going to be appropriate for those types
of investors? So, for me, the product
conversation is an important one and
we'll certainly talk about that. But the
more I got into this, the more this
turned into more of a systemswide
conversation and a structural
conversation. And so, not to steal the
thunder of some of the later
conversations I'm sure we're bound to
have, but there's a lot more than just
the product that we need to solve for
here. So, excited to get into the
discussion.
>> Well, your Room and Julio comment I
think is fitting. I don't have any vials
of poison or daggers handy. So, while I
want to leave you in suspense, I don't
think you should worry too much about
that, but good call out. Okay, so you're
right, Aaron. I think this does come
down to how do you do it effectively?
But I think as I framed at the
beginning, I think we first need to hit
because I think a lot of the bluster and
debate doesn't even get to how to design
this stuff, but rather why are we even
talking about this? Is this really
necessary? And so I think as we design
this episode, we first need to really
unpack properly scope this fundamental
question. It's a bit of first principles
excavating this question of what the
problem is we're actually solving for.
because I think there is a large chorus
on what you might call the opposition of
this move that in fact contends that
this is a textbook example of a solution
and by the way a rotten one they would
argue searching for a problem and very
much so a money grab hunting and
gathering for you might say its next
victim just to use a bit of hyperbole so
to be fair to that constituency that is
sniffing greed in the air you might say
the timing of this does not look good it
ain't ideal interest rates have shot up.
So obviously the cost of money is higher
and the combination of those higher
borrowing costs with largely maxed out
institutional allocations to private
capital have put pressure on GPS to find
their next source of fundraising. Where
will they fish if most of the endowment
and foundation and pension and sovereign
wealth fund ponds are all dried up? So
the optics are not good. So we need to
be I think empathetic to that challenge
to motivation of GPS. So, John, Drew
actually had some good thoughts here.
While there's certainly an incentive for
the industry to push product into an
untapped space, the reality is that
these investors technically don't have
access to these markets in the first
place. So, if you zoom out, is that
really fair? So, let's listen to Drew
talk through that here.
I think the place to start is rather
than we're trying to solve a very
specific problem, it's a more general
problem, which is institutional
investors across the globe. So whether
you're talking about US defined benefit
plans or endowments and foundations,
public defined benefit plans or outside
the US, the Australian defined
contribution system as an example. In
all of these cases, the fiduciaries, the
professionals who are responsible for
managing those portfolios have access to
the full toolkit of investments. They
have access to all of the choices. And
today, the folks who are running and
overseeing defined contribution plans
either don't have access or have chosen
not to take advantage of the access to a
broad set of private market asset
classes. And I think it's really
important to focus on the set of private
market asset classes. So, we're not just
talking about private equity here. We're
talking about private equity and private
credit and private infrastructure and
private real estate, which by the way
has been inside defined contribution
plans in the US for well over a decade.
It's not a lot, but there are plans that
have incorporated what we would consider
traditional institutional private real
estate in their defined contribution
plan for a number of years. So, I think
the thing to really focus on is having
access to that toolkit. Does it create
better outcomes? And you can have a
whole debate about the investment thesis
of alternative assets or private
markets. Do they add value? Do they
contribute to the total portfolio net
risk adjusted return? You can have a
whole debate about that. But to the
extent that other institutional
investors have access to those tools in
their toolkit, the 13 or so trillion in
defined contribution plan assets should
also have access to that toolkit.
[music]
So I think it's fair in light of that
opportunism on behalf of the GPS to
honestly assess exactly what is the
weakness or opportunity for improvement
that even suggests we should debate the
merits of including private capital in
DC plans. Is there truly something here
to address? And I think honestly that
we've had this incredible run of public
equities that at surface value
understandably has largely deemed any
changes unnecessary. In fact, Aaron, I
wanted to give you a little bit of quiz
here. Since the GFC year of 2008 when it
begun, do you know how many down years
the S&P 500 has had in the last 17? So
2009 to 2025 annual years. What's your
guess?
>> I'm going to guess two. Okay. Well,
you're very close. In fact, with a
little bit of a asterisk, you might
actually be right. So, the answer is
three. Three down years out of 17 years.
And by the way, this is not normal. Let
me just put that disclaimer on there.
And the reason you might actually be
right is that in 2015, which was the
first of these down years, it was
effectively flat. It was down less than
1%. So, it barely counts. 2018 was down
6%. And then of course more recently
2022 after that horrendous first half, a
bit of recovery in the second half, it
finished down 19%. So that's it in 17
years. Otherwise, you're talking about
an average annual return of double
digits, well above the long-term S&P 500
annualized return over a much longer
period of decades of about 9%. So this
is a classic case of if it ain't broke.
And I think we need to ask ourselves
that question honestly. In fact, as I've
said many times, the recent past if
you're simply a slave to topline
performance, recent market dynamics will
actually, I think quite naively, but
actually fool you into going 100%
equity. Why even bother? Is
diversification itself dead forever? And
by the way, I think that's another way
to ask the same question that maybe
doesn't incite quite the riot that
private capital in DC portfolios does
because that is clearly a powder keg of
emotion as I've said. But let's ask it
maybe this way. Should we just invest
all of our nest egg or wealth in public
equities? That's largely the same
question with maybe a different set of
clothes. The data of the recent past
certainly supports this. So we're going
to address this dual challenge. Private
capital specifically and then this
existential interrogation of
diversification more broadly. So to do
that, as I promised, I want to suggest
three common arguments that we're going
to need to study and opine on as far as
what may be broken or what may need
improvement in the current system. And
as I talk through them, I think the
public discourse, as I'll contend, often
conflates and confuses several of them
all at the same time. And in fact, I
think most of the bravado and the dart
throwing, the nastiness seems to occur
in the first at the expense of the
second and third, which by the way, I
personally think as I'll mention are the
stronger arguments. But let's explore
that as we progress through these three.
So first, as I said, the hot potato
itself, performance. This is the zip
code of most of the bluster. It tends to
all live here. Does adding private
capital more explicitly to portfolios
actually improve portfolio performance
net of fees over a 60/40? And oddly
Aaron, of the three I'm going to
mention, this is the only mathematical
and therefore objective of the three. So
in theory, this should be the easiest
one to answer, but oh boy, it is not. So
just a quick literature review of some
of the more common cited studies all
over this spectrum. So, a Black Rockck
study contends that modest allocation
builds of private assets through
accumulation years, those years you're
accumulating wealth, your younger years,
let's just say 15 to 20% of the
portfolio, followed of course by
tapering in deaccumulation stages as you
move towards retirement, would boost
annual returns over a 60/40 allocation
by about 50 basis points a year. Now,
through the power of compounding over 40
years of an average work life, that
could lead to 15% more money in your
401k at retirement. That's a lot of
money. So, these assumptions are built,
I should have mentioned, on
forward-looking capital market
assumptions using Black Rockck,
Cambridge Associates, and Prequent Data.
So, that's one. A joint Georgetown
University and Center for Retirement
Initiative study concluded that
combinations of small allocations to
private equity and illquid real assets
yielded between 11 and 22 basis points
of annual performance between 2011 and
2020 on top of a liquid portfolio. So,
the study claimed that the average
retiree in this case would boost
retirement savings by $2,400 per year,
which again would make a huge difference
for the average retiree over a long
period of time. Morning Star ran
simulations across their real life
retirement database with small
inclusions of semi-liquid product
allocations and found using their words
that these vehicles may provide quote
modest but undramatic improvements in
performance end quote. So, let's just
fast forward and move to the other side
of this spectrum. Research at Boston
College claimed that a 10% allocation to
alternatives yielded no statistically
significant impact on performance
between 2001 and 2022. Former SEC
Commissioner Caroline Krenshaw, and by
the way, she just rolled off in January,
just at the time of this recording, a
few days ago. I think I'm going to quote
her a few times during the course of
this episode. She gave one of the most
balanced and thoughtful speeches on the
subject last September. But she noted in
that speech that the State Street
Private equity index underperformed the
S&P for the first time ever on a 1,
three, and 5year basis when it was
measured last year in 2025. And now my
favorite Aaron on this extreme side on
the long tail if you will was better
markets because in their fact sheet
submission to the SEC they cited a
comparison of the average annual return
of the top 50 pensions in the US over
the last decade. So at the time the
study was 2014 to 2024. The average
return they found of those top 50 was
7.4% annually. And then they argued that
a plain vanilla 60/40 portfolio on the
other hand of public equity and debt
returned 8.1% over the same period. So
obviously Aaron if the mean of the top
50 pensions underperformed to 60/40 and
obviously Aaron because those top
pensions have heavy allocations of
private capital then obviously Aaron
private capital is detrimental to
portfolios. So you talk about Olympic
level gymnastics there. All of these
better markets as an extreme. These are
classic statistics problems and frankly
the reason we sometimes struggle to if I
may act like adults in the debate. We're
talking around each other because if you
listen closely to what I was saying, we
are never comparing apples to apples. We
cherrypick a time period. Are we
actually talking about actual returns or
forward assumptions like in the case of
BlackRock? If it is actual, what is the
return methodology? Is it irr is it cash
on cash? If it's cash on cash, is it the
GP or the LP return experience? Is it
before or after fees? And instead of
actual returns, if they don't use that,
some use various benchmarks or proxy
universes. Some of those are decent,
some of them horrendous, are we talking
about alternatives, meaning private
capital plus hedge funds, or are we
talking just private capital, or are we
talking just private equity? And
sometimes, as I said, in the case poor,
better markets, we just extrapolate on
plain poor logic and interpretation to
suit the narrative that we want. So
often these studies in either direction,
I should just add, are intellectually
lazy at best. And they're striking
examples of confirmation bias at worst.
So as the old adage goes, if you torture
the data long enough, guess what? It
will confess to anything you want. John,
I just want to jump in here cuz I had
that quote in mind as you were starting
to go through all these different
studies as well. And I know this is
mostly focused on private markets and
you made a comment about just broader
diversification, but you could replace
the word private markets with any asset
class and I just remember there's
conversations around fixed income in the
mid210s. Should we even have bonds in
the portfolio? And the international
story has always been a challenge as
well. So you can take any time period
and make it say whatever you want. I'm
glad you covered the different spectrums
of pro and against, but I think just
highlighting the fact that any of these
can be spun in a way that's going to
make your point.
>> Yeah, I was going to mention this later,
but you mentioned the international
argument. So, I'll just mention it now.
I think as some of the listeners might
recall, I spent the first portion of my
career as an analyst and then as a
portfolio manager on Epha strategies, so
non US developed market strategies. So I
came up in the mid 90s and we had some
wins with things like telecom and pharma
and Asian software and so forth. So it
wasn't all bad, but the reality was that
you had this nearly decade of experience
where the US public equity market always
outperformed international markets. And
a lot of the chorus sounds very familiar
to what we're hearing now with the S&P
500 comparisons against private markets.
And I remember that it was very tempting
to especially having been in that and
constantly fighting in pitches with LPs
to accept this diversifying opportunity
with this great Epha strategy and they
would ask themselves why should we ever
have any allocation to international US
always outperforms right well as you
just alluded to it works until it
doesn't. And shortly after that, in the
early 2000s, you had about a 10-year
period, 8-year period maybe more likely,
where international outperformed US for
quite a long period of time. And a lot
of that reversed. And then guess what?
About 10 years ago, you've had this very
strong outperformance from the US again.
It keeps reversing itself like the
seessaw. So the point is be careful.
Things don't always stay the same, and
there's always rotation even if they're
longer than we expect sometimes. So,
with all that apples and oranges in
mind, I think the question is, is there
a study? There's no silver bullet. I
don't pretend to even suggest what I'm
about to say is one. But is there any
study that we can reference that gets
pretty close to trying to neutralize
agendas, is a long enough time period to
showcase multiple cycles, as I just
mentioned, rotation in and out of
different asset classes, different
economic regimes, and it uses an
afterfe,
meaning the investor would experience if
you invested this way. Well, I think
there is one that at least we can look
to as the strongest of the collection
I've mentioned. In May of 2025, Greg
Brown, research director at the
Institute of Private Capital, and two of
his fellow University of North Carolina
professors, released a comprehensive
study that looked at nearly 8,000
private equity, private debt, and real
asset fund detailed cash flow and NAV
data between 1998 to 2023. So, this is
25 years of data with a few boom and
bust throughout. So, this is not GP's
reporting fund level performance. This
is LP cash experience. Now, the
professors, those that put the study
together, risk adjusted each of these
asset classes, used various benchmarks
for comparison. The headline is that
they found that the US private equity
asset class in total has outperformed
its public market brethren by a little
over 4%, 400 basis points per year over
the last quarter century. Again, I want
to stress just to lower everyone's blood
pressure. This is actual cash on cash
returns to LPS after fees. So there's no
IRRa slight of hand happening here. And
by the way, outside a bit of the scope
of this episode, contrary to popular
opinion, outside the US, private equity,
particularly buyout direct alphas were
even stronger than US direct alphas. So
just an interesting tidbit. Private debt
is nearly as strong as private equity
with an annualized 3.9% of direct alpha
over the same period. And infrastructure
funds provided about 3% of annual excess
return. Now on the other hand, real
estate funds while they offer lower
volatility and perhaps really strong
diversification were found to provide no
reliable return benefit against publicly
traded REIT indices. And interestingly,
I mentioned private equity as a whole a
couple minutes ago, but the venture
capital portion of the private equity
universe due to very high volatility
again risk adjusted and of course the
power law dynamics also delivers near
zero or even negative excess returns.
So, I can't possibly do justice, Erin,
to all the combinations of asset class,
geography, risk adjustment, benchmark
combinations that the study offers, but
it is by far the most thorough that I've
seen. And I encourage all the listeners
to use your own lens and spend some time
with this study. It's fantastic. Of
course, we'll link to that in the show
notes. But regardless of whether you
think this is, let's call it a 3 to 4%
annual direct alpha, is the silver
bullet to the raging debate. And I'd
argue that there is none. But even if
you believe it, I think the lesson here
is that we need to be discerning on time
period, methodology, benchmark based on
the source of the conclusion. And look,
it's human nature. Everyone has a view.
And usually the data behind our view is
what is manufactured after we've dug our
heels in on an opinion. That's just the
way we roll. So I love how an
institutional investor opinion piece
addressed this systemic problem of
architecting a study to suit your views.
He said, quote, "Some have argued
against this trend." He's referring to
adding private capital to DC plans by
narrowly pointing to performance
comparisons between private equity and
say the S&P 500. Admittedly, it's been
hard for private equity in the aggregate
to outperform in recent years given the
run large cap US equities have been on
powered by Nvidia and the rest of the
mega cap technology names. I find this
to be something of a straw man argument
seen as private markets comprise an
incredibly wide array of strategies with
a near infinite range of return targets,
risk levels, and liquidity
characteristics, highlighting one
unflattering performance comparison
strikes me as limited and fil.
Now, I should note, Aaron, before that
sounds like a Homer quote, that the
title of this whole piece, which I'm
going to get to later, is how an SNL
sketch gets it right and informs the
debate around private markets in 401k
plans. So, this author, his name is Gabe
Altback, I don't know him, is far from a
vested or a blind bull on the subject.
And actually, the purpose of his article
is to largely raise a yellow flag on the
self-interest and conflict ridden and
opaque financial services industry. But
that main point aside, he recognizes
amongst all that and specifically calls
out the data and benchmark problem that
we're getting to. So I think later we
both probably will talk a little bit
about the wide dispersion of private
capital a little bit later, but it does
create significant challenges to
harvesting this problem in itself
because there's no easy button from a
beta product like on the public markets
to get access to this capability. even
if you believe that they theoretically
offer this direct alpha we've been
referring to. But I do think we need to
avoid being duplicitous and recognize
the underlying concentration of the US
public markets as well over the last
decade. And this gentleman Gabe Outback
I think referred to this. So as most of
us know the MAG 7, Facebook, Nvidia,
Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Apple, and
Tesla make up over one-third of the
index about 35% and have overwhelmingly
driven the performance over the last
decade. So Mark Rowan, the CEO of
Apollo, recently said that quote, "We
have levered the entire retirement
system to Nvidia. Where is the outcry
when that goes down?" End quote. So 35%
of our well-being, meaning if we're
invested in S&P 500, tied up in big
tech, is certainly more concentrated bet
than I think we've ever seen. But the
idea of public markets being driven by a
very narrow set of companies is a
defining feature of the public markets
for actually the last century. So a
famous University of Chicago study
looked at 29,000 stocks over the last
100 years. Have you seen this study,
Erin?
>> I have. It's great.
>> So they found a few interesting things
that I think are instructive for just
when we compare the power law and the
access issue and the dispersion issue of
private markets in thinking about the
public markets in comparison. So number
one, what they found was more than half
the stocks had negative cumulative
returns. So even if you remove all the
bombs that had less than a year of data,
the median and most of the companies
still return even with those removed
still return cumulatively negative
returns. So there is a huge positive
very concentrated skewess pulling up the
numbers on the positive side. Median
life of a stock was only about 7 years
again across this 100 year of
measurement. The most striking finding
however to my point was that an
overwhelming amount of the performance
was tied up in 30 stocks. 30 stocks out
of a universe of nearly 30,000. These
cumulative returns and therefore
contribution towards that annual index
performance are just remarkable. You
see, for example, Altria, the old Philip
Morris at 2.64 million%. These numbers
are staggering. Emerson Electric 2.41
million%.
But frankly, when you start to break
down what that means annually, it's
somewhat modest. What that equates to is
an annual medium performance of these
top 30 at a moderate 13% per year. And
then fourth, the other I think finding
is that while it doesn't even get close
to reaching the cumulative top 30, the
all-time winner of annualized
performance with over 20 years of data
at least, you guessed it, Nvidia with an
annual return of 33%. So remember what I
said, the top 30 contributors of all
time, 100 years at least, to the S&P 500
averaged 13%, low teens. Nvidia for the
last 20 years has averaged over 33%. So
I think there's some real important
questions to ask yourself there. So I
mentioned this study, as I said, just to
remind us that the power law is just as
present in the public markets as it is
in the private markets. Being in the
right stocks at the right time makes all
the difference even across these very
long time periods. And this is why
broadly diversified portfolios, just to
double down on my starting point,
through public market indices, even
though most of those stocks go down,
actually, as we've just learned, or
through a basket of private market
funds, even though some won't perform
and some will blow up, is always the
most prudent investment principle out
there. I just want to jump in here as
well and underscore that point. No one
really argues against the or maybe it's
less of an argument against diversifying
within an asset class like public
equity, but it's the diversification
across asset classes that can be
challenging for people. So, I think
using a study like this to showcase that
just like asset classes go up and down
and some don't do well over long periods
of time and others do, it's the same
thing even within public equities that
everyone's very familiar with.
>> Exactly. And I think it's good to always
keep ourselves honest with these
comparisons. I do want to just put a bit
of a asterisk or a caution on this 3 4%
direct alpha over the long term because
there is a caveat and I mentioned
Caroline Crawford's notation of that
study. The recent data suggests that
this direct alpha may be eroding. That
same group of academics, Brown AOL, ran
the study in 2025, just last year for
the trailing 1, three, and 5-year
periods. Similar study to what I
mentioned the State Street private
equity index did. And this was against
the S&P. And the result, direct alphas
across 1, three, and five respectively
were minus 2.5%, minus 4.1%, and minus
1.7%.
So not good. We could be seeing a
change. There is no doubt about that.
Perhaps that's understandable given the
time period. In retrospect, interest
rates have popped. As I mentioned, GP
markets very crowded, high amounts of
dry powder. These are inflated EBA
purchase multiples that are really hard
to exit with any level of return and
fundraising as a result of all that is
collapsing. So, I personally think that
some of this alpha will be getting
rinsed out. And it's a reflection of
just maturity of the business. A lot of
smart money is going after fewer and
fewer deals. It's getting more
competitive, more efficient, more
expensive. That is good for the average
investor, but it could mean that we
might see some compression of those
direct alphas over time. They've just
gotten much more mature. So, the bigger
question though is by how much those
returns will erode. Will these higher
fees still be worth it? And you could
say, back to the dispersion issue, will
the winners and the losers begin to
separate even more? And just as an
instructive warning, just as I explain
this recent phenomenon, if you ran that
same study 1 13 and 5 in 2013, trailing
1 13 and 5 excess returns for private
equity just after the GFC, of course,
you got even worse results than you're
seeing right now. So that was - 9.6% -
1.3% and - 2%. If you're in private
markets and you see that, just run away.
Go home, retire. That's the temptation.
Had you determined as an LP that private
markets were not worth the cost or those
excess returns were a thing of the past
just a reflection those inefficiencies
of the 90s and 2000s and we should give
up now you would have missed out on the
greatest private equity decade ever. So
today in 2025 question again is this a
structural reset to a more modest return
regime permanently or just another PE
cycle that we've seen before and
diversification therefore is always a
wise move over the long time. So Erin,
as I mentioned earlier, we've gave a
couple examples of why that viewpoint is
natural, why it's tempting to move away
after several years of underperformance
or more recent performance. I gave the
example of my experience on the
international side and I think at the
time emotionally it's a sensible stance,
but I do think it misses this broader
purpose of establishing effective
portfolios. If you talk to a
sophisticated LP, for example, this
binary performance beauty contest that
social media and traditional media and
frankly the last 10 minutes of my
discussion have been obsessed with is
never really how they think. As I
mentioned earlier, if every perspective
investment was always about maximizing
return expectations based on
backward-looking data, we would have
100% in US big tech right now,
masquerading, of course, as the S&P 500.
But you got to be careful because even
beyond that, you might also want to
argue for 100% in Bitcoin or gold or
Korean markets, best performing market
last year. The Brazilian realale, best
performing currency last year is a
really slippery slope as you start to
think about the logic of this.
>> You're describing my 401k, John. That's
my complete allocation right there.
>> Very wise, very prudent diversification.
The foundation of solid long-term
portfolio construction designed to
deliver steady riskadjusted returns over
the long term is investment across a
full buffet and collection of
uncorrelated asset classes risk premia
geographies and cash flows. So we have
to be really careful to whipsaw just
because of rotation and so as I said I
think this is the one that is overdone.
It's the one that everyone seems to
center on and anchor on is this issue of
does it give you extra performance? But
a much more powerful challenge to the
current 401k programs or DC programs
more broadly is that I think it offers
very poor beta exposure right now to the
global economy. So let me explain what I
mean by that. I assume that I don't need
to remind most decanters on the line
that the houseian days of the public
markets in many ways peaked in the US in
the mid '90s. Since then, listed
companies have h haved. IPOs have
cratered and companies that do go public
are waiting much, much longer. 90% of
companies now are private and whether
they're seeking equity or debt
financing, they seem very content, very
satisfied to pursue private market
sources for that capital stack. the
urgency and the burden to go public that
drove the 80s and '90s public markets
that I grew up with is now largely
satisfied in a very mature as I said
private market ecosystem. And so as such
most of the enterprise value creation is
now happening in the private markets and
this is uniquely the case just to double
down here for the new economy. emerging
industries such as renewable energy,
space technology, artificial
intelligence, health tech, cyber
security, electrification, bioarm just
to name a few. All of this you can no
longer pretend or argue in good
conscience that the public markets are a
good proxy for the broad economy any
longer. So we should start with the
argument that private markets are a
necessary beta play in today's global
economy. The world, whether we like it
or not, is partly run on private
companies. So that's two beta exposure.
And then that leads me to the third and
final problem if you will that this is
attempting to address. And that is this
issue of civic equity of fairness. For
the reasons I've just articulated, I
think I said something like this a
little bit earlier. It's simply no
longer politically or socially
acceptable to the populace at large.
that only the ultra wealthy or those
that happen luckily to be included in an
institutional DB plan have access to a
rapidly growing portion of the world's
capital formation. This feeds the
narrative by the way that the whole
thing meaning the whole financial
services industry is a rigged game of
the halves and the have nots and that
only those with means and friends in
high places you could say could get
access to the good stuff. And I think
honestly that was an acceptable argument
10 years ago. But alternatives are now
in our numbers $25 trillion of 120
trillion global investable pie. That's
20% half of that nearing 10% is private
equity alone. So this is just too big to
ignore. For decades the US government
has relied solely on home ownership I
should mention for economic prosperity.
And yet the income gap which has gotten
much larger is explained almost solely
by whether you either have equity
participation or you don't. So by
extension extending more equity
opportunity obviously carefully as we'll
talk about across the population would
be very good for financial inclusion and
creating durable wealth. So as I close
here and past you Aaron Neilie Singani
is an investment professional with
Encore. I've never met her, but she
wrote an excellent piece on this topic
in Forbes and summed up the issue of
representation, fairness, participation
in the markets very well here, I
thought. So, I'm going to finish with
this quote. I've spent my career
watching how real capital gets built.
Private markets have long financed the
businesses, properties, and ideas that
power the economy. Meanwhile, much of
America's retirement wealth has been
locked inside rigid structures that
rarely touch that engine. That
disconnect wasn't accidental. It was
engineered. The 401k ecosystem was
designed under the banner of consumer
protection, not access or innovation.
For decades, the industry insisted that
private markets were simply too complex
for the average saver. An argument that
never sat right with me. Complexity
shouldn't be an excuse for exclusion.
Instead, what began as a call for
prudent oversight eventually hardened
into structural limits that determined
who could participate in private growth
and who could not. The industry held
tightly to old assumptions and momentum
to change and it moved glacially. But in
2025, the world of retirement investing
finally began to mirror the world of
real investing. And that alignment may
prove to be one of the most
consequential shifts in modern wealth
building. Modern economic growth is
driven by both public and private
capital, and our retirement systems
should finally reflect the world they're
meant to secure. End quote. So there you
go, Aaron. The challenges this debate,
at least from the way I see it, is
attempting to resolve riskadjusted
performance, beta exposure to the new
global economy, and civic equity, for
lack of a better phrase. And to me,
together, while not perfect, this is
plenty of reason to at least progress to
a debate on how you would go about doing
this because we spend a whole lot of our
energy and time on weather. And I think
that much more consideration is how we
go about doing this and protecting
investors. So the US is not the first to
think about this. Australia, New
Zealand, Chile, the Dutch and others
have great systems in their population
to gain access. So I know you've studied
some of these models. What can we look
to and what have you learned from as
you've studied some alternative models
as we think about this in the US?
>> As you said, John, there's a couple of
different ways that other retirement
systems have tried to solve for this
issue. And I think moving beyond as you
just said the whether we should do this
and focus on the how cuz the Pandora's
box has been opened to a large degree
through regulation and now product
development. So now it's figuring out
how do you build a system around all of
this. So I did a couple of deep dives
into a couple other systems that exist
outside the US and was trying to learn
from each of them in terms of how they
do it and how they do it well. But when
I was trying to compare other retirement
systems to the US, I found that a plan
by plan comparison wasn't actually that
helpful on a standalone basis. They're
all so complex. They operate so
differently from one another. But what
was helpful was stepping back and
talking through different approaches
that they use to execute. And ironically
or weirdly enough, the analogy that came
to me might feel a little
counterintuitive. And that was the
hearkening back to our digital assets
episode, John. And in the context of
digital assets, there's a concept that's
known as the investor trillemma, which
basically holds that no protocol can be
fully decentralized, secure, and
scalable at the same time. You have to
give up something in order for it to be
successful. And a similar trade-off to
me exists in the define contribution
retirement system space and what I'll
call the participant trimmma. And that
there are three conditions that are very
difficult if not impossible to maximize
simultaneously. And the three things
that are in the tradeoffs are one first
full personal control. So the ability
for participants to select options and
build their own portfolios. Second is
institutional style investing which is
access to largecale illlquid bespoke and
operationally complex investment
options. And then third is individual
outcomes and that the participant
themselves bears the investment risk and
actually owns the outcome. So different
systems resolve this tension in
different ways. But none of the models
I'm going to talk about satisfy all
three of those conditions at once. And I
think this framing matters because
private markets broadly defined were not
defined or designed for a single generic
retail investor which is effectively
what the DC market is trying to serve at
scale. So with that let me outline three
different models that have different
trade-offs. So the first model
incorporates institutional style
investing plus individual outcomes but
at the expense of full personal control.
And the two that I want to highlight
here are Australian super and Nest. Both
Australian Super and UK's Nest
prioritize institutional style investing
while maintaining those individual
outcomes. And of course, the trade-off
is personal control. So effectively,
what these organizations are saying is
we're going to invest like a large
institution. You as a participant will
own the outcome, but you have very
limited control in terms of driving what
goes in that portfolio. So let's start
with Australian Super. Australian Super
operates as a profit for members
superanuation fund with a strong
emphasis on long-term investing scale
and cost discipline. It presents itself
as a long horizon allocator capable of
pursuing opportunities that require
patience, specialist capability and
size. So for most participants, the
experience is defaultled and
institutionally managed. Members have
individual account balances and outcomes
that are linked to markets, but they are
defaulted into multi-asset portfolios
that change over time with those
allocations and underlying manager
decisions being made centrally rather
than by the participant. Now, private
markets are actually a core component of
the supers model. Australian Super
manages roughly 385 billion Australian
dollars in assets and about 85 billion
of that or roughly 27% is allocated to
private markets. These exposures though
are embedded in diversified pools and
managed by centralized internal teams
across both fund investments and direct
ownership. And what distinguishes
Australian super is the extent to which
it operates as an owner operator model
at scale. They partner with other super
funds across the continent as well as
other asset pools globally. And they use
the full institutional toolkit of
co-investments, strategic partnerships,
and direct investments. You could almost
think of their size, scale, and
capability as similar to those
institutions like Calsters or CBP
investments. And the result is an
institutional investor operating inside
a DC wrapper, not a DC plan that simply
just added private funds to its menu. So
to be able to deliver on this approach
that personal control has to be
sacrificed so that the underlying
investments can have the full breadth of
opportunity for participants. The other
example I mentioned is Nest. Nest or the
national employment savings trust is the
UK government's sponsored defined
contribution workplace pension scheme
and is one of the largest DC plans in
the country. It was created to support
automatic enrollment and ensure broad
access to retirement savings roughly 17
years ago. Now, Nest has close to 14
million members, which is roughly
one-third of the UK workforce. It
manages right around 58 billion pounds
in assets with significant ongoing
inflows. Again, this is a relatively new
setup from the UK government and there's
more and more participants coming in
every day. And in fact, it's expected to
double in size by 2030 given the pace of
inflows. Now, participants in Nest are
defaulted into a target date like fund
based on age. There's a slight
difference in what we see in the US in
that the glide path differs from a
typical US target date fund. Early
savers start relatively conservatively,
increase their risk exposure mid-career,
and then derisk approaching retirement.
And the stated goal is to avoid
discouraging new savers through early
losses. So ramping up the balance and
then investing more aggressively and
d-risking as retirement approaches. Now,
Nest has also publicly stated an
ambition to increase private market
exposure from roughly 17% of assets to
30% by 2030. Now, structurally, Nest
centralizes governance and asset
allocation decisions, but outsources
execution. So, it sets strategy, it sets
the targets, risk constraints, but then
they partner with external managers to
implement those mandates. So this is
slightly different from the Australian
super model in that it's more of a
traditional allocator approach instead
of an owner operator. Now a good example
is Nest's partnership with IFM which is
ironically majority owned by the supers
in Australia. Recently Nest acquired a
minority stake in IFM's holding company
to help scale private market exposure
across private equity, private debt and
infrastructure. IFM then structures and
manages the investments on Nest behalf
while Nest dictates the exposure it
wants. So in other words, Nest partners
through managers rather than investing
alongside them. So both of these models,
while they're both different in terms of
implementation, have that trade-off that
personal control is held off at the
benefit of actually investing like an
institution.
>> Hey Erin, I just doubled down on a
couple lessons there from those two
examples, too. Competition, particularly
on the super side, is so important. It
raises the stakes and the game and the
quality of all that investing. So your
calsters example, it would be like a
California teacher having lots of
options in addition to calsters and that
again just has a natural consequence of
making everybody better as far as talent
and due diligence and investing pressure
which is a good thing. The other thing
I'd say is that you mentioned that these
are internal investment teams. These are
investment professionals and with all
due respect currently to the 401k
ecosystem, these are not plan sponsors.
These are not recordkeepers. These are
not relationship managers. These are
truly folks that have managed money and
are experts in a particular asset class
and both sourcing, designing and
structuring those deals. So I think
those are two critical ingredients if
we're going to do this well that I think
really manifest in those great examples.
>> Agreed. And when you look at things like
Australian supers performance track
record which they publish publicly
relative to a more traditional balanced
fund or the broader indexes, you can see
the value ad that that centralized
investment team adds to the equation. So
100% agree. So the second model is
institutional style investing plus
personal control. I'll put a caveat
around that at the expense of individual
outcomes. And the example that I want to
use here is APG and the Dutch pension
system. So the Dutch system implemented
by APG resolves the trade-offs
differently and this is where the model
really diverges most sharply from the US
experience. So APG manages 600 billion
euro in pension assets for roughly 5
million participants across the largest
Dutch pension funds. So the governance
and policy are set by the pension boards
and the execution is centralized within
APG's resources across sourcing,
investment decisions and portfolio
management. I kind of view this as a
centralized centralized model.
Governance is centralized in one place
and execution is centralized in a
different place. And the equivalent
would be here in the US if social
security for whatever reason were to be
invested they would partner with an
organization like Black Rockck or
Vanguard to actually manage it all on
their behalf. Formally the system is
defined contribution and that
contributions are defined. However, the
outcomes are not guaranteed and the
employers do not carry a defined benefit
style liability on their balance sheet.
So it sits somewhere between DC and DB
as we know it. So participants can log
in, they can see their contributions and
balances, but portfolio construction and
risk exposures are set collectively.
Risk is automatically adjusted based on
age and other characteristics that are
defined by the pension boards. And as I
mentioned, outcomes are not promised.
They can be smoothed. So participants
are not forced to lock in an outcome
based on the market on the day that they
retire. So this experience borrows
elements from cash balance plans,
targeted funds, and public pensions
without becoming a traditional DB plan
as well. The structure also allows APG
to invest like a large institutional
investor. Very similar, as I mentioned
before, to major public plans. It
controls portfolio construction across
public and private markets. All of which
is subject to the governance constraints
set by the pension boards. And John, you
may remember in our TPA episode, we
mentioned APG is one of the
organizations that's trying to think
through TPA. And you can see how the
governance setup would enable them to do
that more effectively. Now, from a
private markets perspective, the largest
fund that APG manages, which is ABP,
which is the government employees
pension, represents roughly 500 billion
euro of the total. So the vast majority
of the assets and approximately 25% of
that is allocated to private markets.
And recent reforms in the Dutch system
have explicitly supported increasing
private markets exposure. And so APG as
the centralized authority of managing
those assets is positioned to execute
that mandate centrally. So the third and
final model I want to highlight is
personal control plus individual
outcomes at the expense of institutional
depth. And I'm going to use a different
super in this example which is uni
super. So this brings us back down under
Australia. But the UNI super operates
within the same superanuation system as
Australian super but resolves trade-offs
slightly differently than Australian
super. And the key distinction is
participant flexibility. Uni super
allows members to hold multiple
investment options, rebalance more
frequently and direct existing balances
and future contributions differently as
well. So private markets are integrated
primarily through pulled options and
external managers rather than extensive
direct ownership. And compared to
Australian super, Uni Super preserves
more personal control and cleaner
individual accounting. But that
flexibility for the participant
constrains how far the fund can actually
push into direct investments and
bespoked private market offerings. So
unis actually looks probably the closest
of the three to a traditional 401k
model. Here in the US, you've got more
participation choice, fully
individualized outcomes, and tighter
limits on what can actually go in the
box. So why does this comparison matter?
Across all four systems that I
highlighted here, the pattern is pretty
consistent. No model delivers fully on
personal control, institutional style
investing, or fully individualized
outcomes at the same time. The
differences are not so much about
innovation or the sophistication of the
participants, but rather deliberate
structural choices about where
complexity, control, and risk are
allowed to sit. And that context is
often missing when private markets are
discussed in defined contribution plans.
And it's through the lens in which the
US conversation probably needs to shift
and be more understood. Again, as I
mentioned at the beginning of the
episode, John, product is one element of
this, but you can see the success from a
lot of these different plans comes from
how the system is set up and the
participant experience is set up as
well. Product is just one part of those
pillars. I think there has been some
buzz about the system, the structural
wrapper around this debate around what's
included in the pie. But I think you're
right. It's long overdue to reconsider
whether we just diagnose the problem
completely wrong and placing more entre
into a bad system is just going to
create a worse outcome. Sarah
Williamson, who is a friend of ours,
she's the CEO of Focusing Capital in the
Long-Term, FCT as it's often called, she
both offended and inspired me with this
Forbes article, I will say, and I'll
explain why she did both, but she said
the following quote, "Finally, these
plans," and she's talking about those
that are more like this superructure in
Australia that you just mentioned, could
reflect the evolving nature of American
society. Just like the 74 ODS mobile,
Orisa no longer meets the needs of the
average American. Vinyl interiors and
ashtrays may have made sense in 1974,
but not today. Similarly, our retirement
system was built for an America that by
and large no longer exists. The modern
American workforce includes gig work,
part-time employment, gaps in
traditional employment such as
caregiving. And we also know that there
is an enormous gender and race-based
retirement savings gap. A new system
could address all of these issues. Now,
by the way, the reason she offended me
is that my first car was an 86
oddsmobile. I don't like the fact that
I'm being caricatured my favorite car
ever. That aside, I think she's getting
at exactly the right issue is that we
are long overdue. Nest and the
superanuation structure and system APG,
these are not new. It's not that we are
looking at these archetypes for the
first time and they're still finding
their way and determining their proof
points. These are models that have been
around a while and I do think it's time
that we broaden the discussion a bit.
I've heard more anecdotally, even just
recently in the last 18 months, people
whispering about, "Oh, it'd be great if
we brought the DB plan back, which may
or may not be a good idea, but the
concept of having something that's
structurally there for everyone." Again,
this conversation is much broader than
just do I have the right products in the
mix. It's retirement and safety of
retirement. I think what's attractive
about the DB program is that you've got
professionals that you're outsourcing to
that are standing in for you with the
appropriate expertise and trust and
fiduciary responsibility that can
deliver those investment outcomes
without you, an individual retiree who
in most cases are not an expert and
shouldn't pretend to be. This is not, as
I'll get to in a moment, you wouldn't
put you or I into a Formula 1 race car.
>> Well, speak for yourself, but yeah.
>> Well, I wouldn't put myself in one. and
it's a profession. So, we just have to
be really careful on how much control we
put into these programs. So, I mentioned
earlier that this timing coincides with
a weak fundraising environment now that
we have some models that you've
described to consider, but as I said,
these models have been around a while.
GPS are anxious to find that next source
of
aumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumum
and clientele. So, there's mobilization
from the industry around that. But I
guess the question I wanted to ask
quickly and briefly before we move back
to you Aaron for maybe the structural
considerations on architecting these
solutions is why now? Why is this
suddenly hit a fever pitch? So I'm going
to briefly run through a few here. I
already talked about my first one which
is the maturity of the private markets.
They've grown up enough to satisfy most
people's comfort level that there is
efficiency and options and
competitiveness and due practice and so
forth. So they are broad enough for most
to invest in. The second is product
evolution. I made reference to this. We
haven't talked about it a lot, but
there's a proliferation of new vehicles
that offer access to highquality private
capital strategies in rappers that
provide for periodic liquidity. Now we
can debate whether that's necessary, but
these are semi-liquid funds like
interval tender funds with quarterly or
monthly liquidity mechanisms and
therefore they are in the news and being
talked about much more. BDC's,
non-traded REITs. There are other
examples of these hybrid products that
at least in theory are meant to service
individuals, cater to their unique
needs, try to solve for a number of
different unique issues that an
individual versus an institution faces.
And by the way, this is not a new
mechanism, but I will just say while
we're talking about products that the
target date fund structure seems to me
to be the most ideal place for private
capital or any patient capital.
Therefore, if you look at the data of
all the 401ks, those of us that choose
target date funds trade much much less.
So, it's this set it and forget it. This
patient plotting deliberate approach to
investing that I think mimics wise
long-term thinking. So, I think TDFs
were always ironically the best
environment in laboratory for something
like this. Third is what I'd call
population conscious of private equity.
This is just too big. I mentioned
earlier to ignore. The experiential day
of a typical citizen interacts with
private equity all the time. I alluded
to this a little bit earlier. We touched
on this last season in our episode on
private equity needing a new head of PR.
But private capital is no longer these
dark corners of consumer experience,
just lifestyles of the rich and famous
that we watch from a distance and with
some dose of envy and cynicism all at
the same time. Think of the everyday
brands that surround every one of us. X,
Tik Tok, M&M's, Trader Joe's, Publix,
Aldi, Subway, Chick-fil-A, Dunkin
Donuts, Burger King, Tim Hortons, Chad
GPT, Windex, Pledge, Ziplock, Raid,
Wawa, Pedigree, IKEA, Red Bull, SpaceX.
This is what we're reading about. This
is what we interact with through the
course of our day. And so again, the
conscience of the population for private
companies is just higher than it's ever
been as a result. Fourth is what I'd
call back to our 100red-year history
study I mentioned a little bit earlier.
The demographics or expectations for
6040 long term. It is no secret that the
US social security system is running on
fumes to say the least. So under current
plans, social security in the US is due
to exhaust its benefits, basically run
out of money, go bankrupt in 2033. And
therefore, the majority of American
citizens will now be wholly dependent on
their defined contribution plans to fund
their retirement lifestyle. And that is
more pressure on the whole system to get
this right and ensure long-term returns
to meet the future income needs of those
retirees. And as I described earlier, if
you think the 7030 portfolio, which is
effectively what the large majority of
401k participants are invested in, 70%
public equity, 30% public debt or fixed
income. If you believe that that will
continue producing unfettered
double-digit annual returns, then we're
just fine. But for those of us that are
a little bit more skeptical that this
big tech Ferrari can continue to drag
the other 493 stocks along at this pace
year after year, we may just need a
broader pallet of options to choose
from. And remember that the very best
performing stocks over the last century
have had average low teens annual
performance. The very top 30 and the Mag
7 has been more than double that at
least Nvidia has. And so is that really
sustainable? I think is the question I'm
just trying to ask you here. So that
doesn't suggest the US equities or the
US economy are out of favor or will no
longer perform, but just a realization
that normal markets rotate in and out
and asset classes and geographies e and
flow. So having a well- diversified
portfolio is protection. It's soothing
balm for traditional capital market
behavior to ensure you're not betting
too aggressively. The old eggs in one
basket or betting on one horse at the
track. fifth and the overwhelming reason
all that aside that this has become
front page news. It's the reason I
opened the entire episode with the
regulatory change. So, in the spirit of
Marty Supreme, have you seen the movie
yet?
>> I have. That's great.
>> Shalomé won Golden Globe the other day.
We have seen a nasty intense game of
table tennis over the last three
administrations. Okay. Trump won, Biden,
and Trump 2. It's a multi-year ping-pong
rally began, as I said, with Trump won
Department of Labor in June 2020. That
DO letter was in response to an
application on behalf of Pantheon
Ventures and Partners Group. Again, one
of our guests here, soliciting DO's
views on whether inclusion of private
equity into 401ks violated fiduciary
duty. While the agency did note that
private equity investments tend to be
more complicated, have longer time
horizons, less liquidity, and have
higher fees than traditional
investments, it concluded that
fiduciaries would not violate their
duties under Orisa solely by offering an
asset fund with a private equity
component. It did recommend quite
importantly in my view that private
equity exposure should be pursued to our
point a moment ago on the supers through
professionally managed and through
structures like balanced accounts and
target date funds versus direct
investment. Now, unsurprisingly, only a
year later, the new Secretary of Labor,
Marty Walsh's confirmation, the
Signature Ink was barely dry, was
probably still damp from his nomination
under Joe Biden's new administration.
And the agency issued a, which is a very
kind way of saying it, statement of
clarification to tone down the
perception that the previous letter had
largely endorsed private equity. This
letter stressed caution in pursuing
private capital as the fiduciary skills,
knowledge, and experience in selecting
and monitoring GPS required significant
experience and care. Wholly agree with
that. That is right on. It also
specifically suggested that smaller plan
sponsors were unlikely to have this
expertise and therefore would risk their
fiduciary duty. Again, getting to
manager selection, access dispersion.
Completely right on that. And then of
course finishing this ping-pong rally,
the aforementioned 2025 Trump executive
order that broke open the jetty of
hostility that we opened with on the
subject and directed the industry, as I
said, to ease restrictions on the
inclusion of private equity, private
real estate, and digital assets into
401k plans, aiming to boost
diversification and returns for savers
by re-examining fiduciary guidance and
reducing regulatory burdens. And
interestingly, Aaron, no surprise, as
part of this new order, they rescended
the second supplemental DO letter noted
above, scratched from history. It never
existed. Nothing to see here. So, the
sad thing here is this should not be a
partisan debate. But it's whoever is in
power resins, revises, or replaces the
guidance of the previous administration.
And by the way, this the norm on Capitol
Hill these days. This whole debate has
become more personal than substantive.
Both are claiming that they're looking
out for the little guy, while the other
side, of course, blames them for simply
lining their own pockets. But that's
where capital decanted is here for. Cut
through that emotional ranker,
irrational exuberance, and try to calmly
parse out the benefits and the risks
herein. So, maturity of the private
markets, product evolution, population
conscious, retirement gap, and the
Washington version of Marty Supreme is
what has made this headline new now. And
so Aaron, I think it's time with all
this framing that we get down and dirty
with how we might actually do this. What
are the structural considerations? How
do we design and architect to ensure
that investors are protected and
informed properly and investor
professionals feel the weight of this
fiduciary responsibility and
accountability?
>> Indeed, John, before you move on, I
wanted to underscore a few things. And
the first of which is that regulatory
clarity, which I think Drew provided
some excellent thoughts on. Again, this
isn't about different stances. It's
about clarity of those stances. So,
let's listen to him talk through that
here.
Look, the litigation environment has
been that's a challenge for plant
sponsors employers across a wide array
of topics. It's not just whether or not
you're going to include private markets.
plan sponsors have been sued for having
a money market fund instead of a stable
value fund and also for having a stable
value fund and not having a money market
fund. So the latest wave of lawsuits had
nothing at all to do with the retirement
plans had to do with the voluntary
benefit kinds of designs. So the threat
of litigation has been a factor across a
wide array of topics. The executive
order really gave us a roadmap for how
the DO may address this set of issues.
The question about litigation risk in
401k plans. It specifically called out
reducing litigation risk right in the
executive order. And this Department of
Labor, this Employee Benefit Security
Administration headed by Daniel Ornowitz
has made clear that they intend to try
to make it easier for plan sponsors to
make decisions. The fact that they came
out with an amicus brief on behalf of a
plan sponsor for the first time in
decades earlier in the fall is a clear
message. They also changed their stance
on the ORISA pleading standards in early
December. The DO shifted their stance
from the burden of proof is on the
defendant to the burden of proof is on
the plaintiff. So both of those are
signals that the Department of Labor is
trying to address this litigation risk
question. As I mentioned, the executive
order laid out a roadmap. One could
argue in fact that what the executive
order laid out is the policy of the
federal government of the United States
of America is make it easier for plan
sponsors to incorporate a wider array of
asset classes in their plans. It's not
an information letter. It wasn't an
opinion. Oh, we think this is okay. This
is the policy stance and we're going to
get some guidance in the next 45 to 60
to 90 days. And that may come in a
variety of all the way from a full
notice and comment regulation to
subregulatory guidance, things like
information letters or FAQs. All of
which are going to be designed to try to
lay out for plan sponsors, adviserss,
consultants, here are some of the things
you need to do in order to prove that
you've done your due diligence. And
that's really part of the discussion
here is making sure that you've done
your fiduciary due diligence. You've
gone through a prudent process. You've
tapped expertise where necessary. You've
documented that process. And if you've
done those things, then you shouldn't be
worried that, well, because I was
talking about this topic instead of some
other topic, it's particularly
radioactive. So, I think we're going to
see some clarity from this Department of
Labor on that.
The second thing that I want to
highlight in reaction to your population
conscience is Social Security. There's
always a debate on whether this is going
to go bankrupt. And I think politically
it would be a nightmare for whoever is
in office for this to actually go
bankrupt. So we'll see if that actually
happens. But yeah, you could have
benefits that are slashed or a
restructuring that takes place. But
maybe the bigger conversation here is
the role that Social Security plays in
retirement income for lower inome
households versus higher income
households. and it plays a role in all
of them. But the replacement rate for
postretirement income still needs to be
made up by your personal investments.
You still cannot live on social security
alone. So you have to have some kind of
a solution for participants that's going
to enable them to retire comfortably. So
to say that social security is the only
thing that's going to help you through
retirement, I think is not a good or
factual thing to say. So you've got to
have a portfolio solution that's going
to solve that problem as well. So on the
structural considerations and I want to
focus on the differences here because I
think when we talk about DC plans and
again this comes back to product to a
large degree but even the framing of the
conversation is that DC plans and wealth
management are not the same thing and as
we know both of those things are not the
same as the institutional investor
market. And again as I said before these
differences matter because private
markets in the broadest sense were not
designed for this generic retail
investor. So lumping them together
really obscures the meaningful
structural distinctions in expertise,
governance, regulation, and behavior.
And the way that I want to summarize
these critical differences between all
three is how each of them handles
complexity differently. Institutional
investors tend to centralize complexity
within formal governance structures that
are focused on the long term. Investment
decision-m is embedded in committees,
policy frameworks, multi-stage approval
processes, probably to a maddening
degree. Due diligence is extensive,
timelines are long and accountability is
collective rather than at the individual
level. So when outcomes disappoint, the
evaluation focuses on whether the
investment thesis, the portfolio
construction or the processes were sound
and not the result of a single position
at a single point in time. Losses are
absorbed at the portfolio level.
decisions are theoretically judged over
a large market over a full market cycle
and relative to outcomes rather than a
moment of stress. So the structure of
institutional investing as we've hit on
multiple times allows institutions to
tolerate illquidity, valuation
uncertainty, and operational complexity.
So private markets align naturally with
this environment because complexity is
expected. It's monitored and it's
governed internally. Now, wealth
management, as we've talked about in
previous episodes, John, sits between
institutional governance and individual
decision-making. So, complexity,
therefore, is partially internalized and
then partially externalized. So, CIO
teams, investment committees, advisors
establish frameworks, they select
managers, and they define guard rails.
They act as translators and gatekeepers.
But at the end of the day, the client
retains decision authority over
allocations, liquidity, and timing. So
even if the adviser claims discretion,
it's at the service of the client. And
so that shared responsibility introduces
structural tension. Knowledge and
expertise can vary across advisors and
clients. Accountability for outcomes is
personal rather than collective. And as
a result, we've seen the rise of these
products and investment structures that
are often adjusted to accommodate not
only scale and access, but also client
preferences, most notably regarding
liquidity and perceived control and
optionality. So, private market exposure
in this channel is typically shaped by
these constraints. Products are
structured to manage behavioral
responses to volatility and uncertainty,
including the desire for optionality
even when long-term capital is the
stated objective. Now defined
contribution plans share one important
feature with institutional investors.
They are long-term savings vehicles. So
ironically the constraint is not time
horizon. The constraint is participation
heterogeneity and behavior at a wide
scale. So DC plans must be offered
broadly across an organization
regardless of financial sophistication,
participant engagement or personal
circumstances. There's no translation
that occurs between the investment
structure and the participant. And if
there is, that experience varies even
more than what we see in high net worth
circles. Just anecdotally, I've worked
with plan sponsors. I've worked
alongside other adviserss. And the level
of sophistication and knowledge is very
wide in terms of dispersion. So
therefore, we've tried to create this
structural experience where decisions
are implemented through default options
as a way to just get participants on a
path and invested. But again, those
outcomes are born individually. So on
top of all of this, plan design has to
account for first uneven engagement and
financial literacy. Second, liquidity
demands such as loans, hardship
withdrawals, job changes. All of these
have liquidity events such as
distributions or rollovers that occur.
And then third is participant-driven
reallocations during periods of market
or political stress.
>> Erin, sorry, I just want to jump in here
and underscore that point you made on
financial literacy. I don't think we
could stress this enough. I think we
have to understand that the entire value
chain on the 401k system has been
programmed around a historical 60/40
public equity and public debt model. And
therefore, the gatekeepers and the plan
sponsors and the adviserss and all the
actors along these way points need
significant upgrading of their skill and
their acumen. You have to make sure your
fiduciaries are focused on education and
participant engagement. And it's less
about the fund options, not that that's
not important, but it's more about
holding their hand through these really
key decision points so they ensure that
they can retire with dignity.
[music]
>> The most important thing that
fiduciaries can do on behalf of their
participants is to make sure that they
are most prepared for retirement and
retire comfortably. What we can do is
continue to educate the market on what's
available and how. We've done the
majority of the work from a portfolio
management perspective, from a product
development perspective that enables
plan participants to access private
markets by way of a professionally
managed solution. We'll continue to
educate as to how that professionally
managed solution benefits the investor
by being a large part of a target date
fund or a managed account. But at the
end of the day, it's all about education
and making sure people understand what
their options are and make the decision
on what's best for the participant and
not what is the least expensive option.
I think we'll get back to a defined
contribution world in which decisions
are made based on what's best for the
participant and we'll get away from
regulation by litigation.
[music]
Yeah, John, I like Dan's perspective on
this and even your leadup to setting
that conversation up. I think it ties
back to what Drew mentioned earlier on
the litigation front. In some ways, the
investment options really take care of
themselves if you have the experience,
the education, both at the participant
level, but also at the plan sponsor
level set up. Now, as John mentioned,
target date funds are a place where you
have a lot of participants that set it
and forget it, but there's still a good
majority of participants who make those
allocation decisions themselves. So,
these features introduce risks that do
not exist in an institutional setting
and are mediated differently in wealth
management. There's still someone with
their hands on the wheel. So, complexity
can't be explained away or managed
through relationships. It has to be
constrained at the system level to
preserve fairness, liquidity, and
fiduciary defensibility. And this is why
defined contribution plans have
historically limited these types of
complex options that can be embedded
directly in the participant experience,
even when the long-term investment logic
might suggest otherwise. Aaron, I think
this is such a good point you're making.
First of all, the conflation between
wealth management or retail broadly and
retirement, I see all the time in some
of the argument here. this issue of
liquidity and the time horizon of a
retirement account. There's this common
refrain that suggests lack of daily
pricing in liquidity somehow makes it
riskier and therefore ills suited for
retirement funds. And I think this is
short-sighted and it's driven more, as
you just said, by psychology, by poor
conditioning and public market structure
than it is investor protection. The
amount of liquidity, as we've often said
here at Kaya, whether it's daily to
monthly or quarterly redemptions to
fully locked up is simply one of several
features in the product specs you need
to weigh in your due diligence. It's
neither a benefit nor a flaw. There's
not a good and a bad spectrum here. So,
in fact, allowing enterprise value to
take place effectively over a longer
period of time without management having
to react to every market tremor and
emotional machination of the public
markets actually might be a good thing.
I totally agree, but I still think the
products aren't there yet to support the
investment. We actually spoke to both
Dan and Drew about how they see the
product side continuing to evolve and
some of the challenges and opportunities
that both product sets offer.
>> I think the majority of GPS out there
aren't today prepared to offer
portfolios to define contribution
participants or individual investors.
Although traditional draw down
strategies have been utilized in 401ks
for probably two decades, it's not the
most efficient way, it's generally only
the most wellresourced plan sponsors,
the largest plan sponsors that have been
able to execute upon that. But as the
market evolves, as innovation occurs,
there are much easier ways for plans of
all sizes to access private markets,
generally through evergreen portfolios,
which allow investors to access private
markets content immediately. There is no
J curve. There is no gap between the
commitment and the draw down. It also
allows for client money to be
immediately reinvested. What's most
important about the evergreen structure
though in my opinion is the flexibility
that it offers which is so pertinent to
the defined contribution channel. The
evergreen capability allows a portfolio
manager to be flexible with where that
next dollar is going to go. Take
advantage of relative value
opportunities, provide liquidity if
necessary. Although it is a feature to
have money be invested in a longerterm
opportunity through private markets,
it's also important to be flexible
because there will be cash needs for
both participants and plan sponsors.
Good [music] stuff from Dan. Let's move
on to hear what Drew had to say.
inside a DC plan flows are netted across
the DC plan before you get to the
underlying investment and have to
liquidate those underlying holdings. I'm
sure we are going to see additional
innovation in both vehicles and product
design whether that's around liquidity
and valuation and are there layers of
liquidity inside the products. I'm sure
we're going to see continued innovation
on that front. In the define
contribution plan world, the collective
investment trust or CIT is going to be
really right now it functions like this
universal adapter. You can put just
about anything inside a CIT and once
it's inside the CIT, it can run on the
rails of the DC system, inside that DC
ecosystem. And the thing about a CIT is
that it's fully ORISA vehicle. So it's
subject to Orisa and all of the
transparency obligations that go along
with ORISA. So I think that's another
point that's really important to focus
on. So whether it's target date fund
CITs owning an underlying private market
vehicle or it's a CIT that just owns
private market assets that then other
CITs or other structures can own like a
managed account. That's how we're
unlocking the system.
I mentioned Neilie [music] Sangani or
quoted her earlier and she said
something really interesting here as
well. She said, quote, "Private markets
on liquidity move on multi-year cycles,
not daily headlines. A helpful way to
think about it is this. In public
markets, you place money in a box and
you keep the key. In private markets,
you hand the key to the sponsor and they
open the box when the investment has run
its course. So it is just a different
mindset with a new set of psychological
foundations that is going to take a
whole lot of education as you once said
and I just see very little reason that
most of your retirement fund needs any
level of daily liquidity or daily marks.
It just doesn't make sense to me.
>> Yeah, agreed. And as I think and you
mentioned a couple of these throughout
the balance of our conversation, but if
I could boil it down to three things
that need to be solved for beyond the
structural differences, it's the
regulatory clarity that you mentioned
and the pingpong match between both
sides has to stop at some point. There
has to be some structural solution so
that sponsors can feel empowered to make
those decisions and do it for the long
term. Second is education and behavioral
coaching. The education needs to happen
at all levels. Again, it's a systemwide
issue of the sponsor down to the
participant and making sure that you may
not need to go into the individual
funds. If you look at an Australian
super, I'm sure they're not going into
well, we own this fund versus this fund,
but what is the experience and what can
you and can you not do within this
structure? And then of course, maybe
with the regulatory clarity is investor
protection. How do you protect the
individual participant who is not
sophisticated? They don't have millions
of dollars to lose. They're just trying
to save for retirement to ensure that
this industry doesn't ruin itself in
trying to offer product to this new
constituent. So, I'd be curious if you
have the same takeaways, if there's
something I'm missing, but all of this
boils down to those three points from my
perspective.
>> No, I think you've touched on all of
them. I think this is partly education,
partly structure, partly fairness. But I
think the biggest risk to this whole
thing, we touched on dispersion a little
bit. And again, I don't think we need to
go through the full quantitative data
necessarily, but I think we all know
that compared to public equity and
public debt, the dispersion of top
quartile and bottom quartile performance
of these managers across private equity,
private debt, private real estate is
much much wider. meaning you have to be
in median or better at least to justify
the higher fees in which you're going to
be paying for these strategies. And the
biggest risk I think is that the
retirement system gets the leftovers.
They get the mediocre stuff that
everyone else passes on. And I think
that is the key is that the system
ensures that the same offerings are
there and that the gatekeepers and the
fiduciaries have built the
relationships, the muscles of expertise
to find and deepen the relationships
with these good managers so that again
that these retirees are not paying more
for effectively the same level of
performance. And then the last thing I
just wanted to double down on is this
issue of regulatory clarity, fiduciary
confusion, passing the buck that I think
is rampant in this whole industry. I've
been on record a number of times saying
that the private capital industry missed
this golden opportunity in 2024, what
was called the private advisory rule
that was proposed by the SEC. That would
have pushed forward a series of reforms
that actually would have set this
conversation up for a lot more
healthiness, more transparency on fees,
more consistency and equity among LP
relationships. It would have
crystallized fiduciary responsibility in
certain situations that eliminated
exceptions that you can get around best
practices. And this SEC guidance was far
from perfect, but we threw the baby out
with the bathwater. And private market
regulatory playbooks are in just dire
need. They are long overdue for
modernization. And now these standards
and stakes are way higher. The degrees
of freedom are way narrower in the
retirement world. And this is a lengthy
quote. I'm going to close here. But
Caroline Krenshaw, again, as I said, I
would just encourage you all to read her
speech. But she, I think, challenges the
hypocrisy, if I might say, of the
industry in the way that we behaved in
2023 and 4 and then perhaps our rhetoric
now. So she says, quote, "Unfortunately,
this expansion of private markets is
coming. At the same time, the commission
has backed away from the prospect of
meaningful oversight over the private
markets." Again, she's referring to the
private markets advisory role. In the
discussion about expanding retail access
to private markets, it's curious and
concerning that I haven't heard much
about the need for corresponding
expansions and oversight. Interestingly,
in recent days, I've noticed some new
talk about the need for guard rails from
proponents of retail access to private
markets. Well, I certainly agree, but
I'll admit I'm a little bit confused. I
love the snarkiness here. Because some
of those same voices actively opposed a
prior commission's efforts to actually
install those same guard rails. We
cannot just give lip service to the
importance of these protections. And we
cannot use the promise of some
hypothetical future protection as an
excuse to let retail investors ride into
100 mph traffic today. After all, as
we've discussed, the reason that the
private markets are allowed to function
with less oversight and less
transparency than the public markets is
precisely because they are not available
to Main Street investors. The principal
challenge, she goes on to say, that
opponents to the rules raised two years
ago was that Congress intended to draw a
sharp line between private funds and
funds that serve retail investors, and
the petitioners argued that the rules
crossed that line and ultimately the
rules were vacated by the fifth circuit.
And so she closes here. But where is the
enthusiasm for that same sharp line now
that private funds want retail investors
money? Apparently to some the public
private markets divide should exist only
when it's being used to resist
regulatory oversight. Mic drop. The
import of our public and private markets
divide should be clear. If you let
retail investors onto the autobond,
there must be highway patrol. End quote.
And I think she's right on. Sarcasm
aside, she's right on. There is huge
contradiction in the moments by when
it's convenient to want more oversight
and guard rail and the moments where
it's not. And we've got to get this
right. It is critical.
>> Yeah. And I think the industry should
welcome this. And I know that there's
always a resistance to this to some
degree, but if something goes wrong on
Main Street, it's over. This will not be
successful long term. So even if you
think you're doing the right thing,
making sure that collectively we're all
doing the right thing, I think is
something we should embrace. And I know
that there's minutia and nuance into how
regulations are created, but there's got
to be something there.
>> Well, maybe private equity needs a new
head of PR, Aaron.
>> Ooh, call back. Love it.
>> Check that episode out. We touched on a
lot of the same issues there as well.
There's a little bit of blinders. I
think that it would be beneficial if
they were taken off. So again, I hope we
have honored what we set to do, which is
to attack this from multiple touch
points to give room and platform to all
voices, the rightful concerns, even the
hypocrisy and contradictions, but also
backing up to first principles and what
are we actually trying to accomplish
here and the power [music] of
diversification long term, which has not
gone away just because we've seen a very
unique capital markets [music]
behavior over the last decade or so. So,
we're going to leave it there. Thanks so
much for tuning in [music] to this
episode and we will see you out there.
