real estate in a repriced and kind of
everchanging world. We have an amazing
group of panelists to talk about what
the trends and opportunities are both
here in the region and and around the
globe. So, we don't have a huge amount
of time. I hope you can look up their
bios online. Um but in the meantime,
let's dive right in and talk about some
of those trends and some of those
opportunities. You see, maybe if I can
start with you. um you know seeing the
um the growth in the region. Um you're
obviously based in Egypt but also doing
um work here in Abu Dhabi. Um would love
to hear your thoughts about some of the
trends that you're seeing in real estate
development and kind of where you all
are are most excited about kind of
seeing that growth.
>> Okay. Um actually I'll I'll start with
Abu Dhabi. I think that Abu Dhabi or the
Emirates in general is a place where um
a lot of people want to move in. I think
there's a huge potential. Uh we've seen
since we've been here honestly all but
very good things from government from uh
from every aspect. We have actually a
lot of pending demand uh that already
although we haven't yet launched but a
lot of people are approaching us uh on
that. As far as um Egypt is concerned uh
we still see a huge demand on real
estate. At the end of the day I believe
real estate is the oldest business in
the world and it is probably the only
business that will never be interrupted.
People uh you know people will always uh
live they'll always look for residence.
people want entertainment in their
lives. So I think the trend is very
clear in our part of the world. The
problem is always inflation and the cost
of construction. That's huge. Um and the
only way to counter that because you
cannot really uh reduce prices and lose
money. The only way you can counter that
is by increasing the value of the brand.
And this is where branding comes in
play. uh we've been investing in our
brand for the last uh 25 years or so and
accordingly we can easily sell at a
premium to our nearest uh competitor uh
at around 20 25% reason being is uh the
brand itself and for the people it is
the cost but also the brand and the
value of the brand so overall I would
say we're we're extremely competitive
>> so you brought up um an interesting
point in terms of uh the the brand
valuations and and not just the
valuations but actually the value itself
kind of fundamentally. Ian would love
for you to talk a little bit about what
you're seeing. There has been a lot of
consolidation in certain parts of the
real estate market especially in
hospitality and there is a drive towards
having more um value in terms of the
brands but also individual properties
and what that looks like across a
portfolio. So, would love to hear your
thoughts about kind of what you're
seeing um in as trends and what you're
hopeful about um in those trends.
>> The big brands are driven by obviously
their share price and their share price
seems to be related to the growth in
room numbers and so they're all out
going for growth. The products are
becoming less and less differentiated.
I don't know how many brands there are
within Marriott. 30, 40. There are
always new brands. Every time I look,
there's a new brand that's been inserted
because someone believes that there
might be a niche. We're now seeing
conversion brands with virtually no
standards that you can just slip your
hotel into. So, what's happening
potentially with that is that there'll
be a dilution for owners because the
reason that you have brands is that you
have loyalty schemes. And if those
loyalty schemes are spread across more
and more hotels, it's hard to create
value. So I think the big comp the big
hotel businesses, and we know what they
are, are going to find it much more
challenging to grow their supply. And I
think that owners who are getting
smarter will want more from hotel brands
and will start to self-manage or
actually use independent management
companies. And do you think so what
would be for for those um who are
interested in kind of exploring more
investment opportunities in the
hospitality space? What what should
investors be looking for? Um as you just
mentioned one um idea in terms of the um
independent management but thinking
about you know kind of what are what are
those levers for actual kind of uh value
generation for you?
>> Are you talking about which market or
which hotels?
>> Um either but yeah
>> that's a pretty wide question. Yeah,
>> I mean obviously and we talked about
this a little bit earlier,
you've got to be in stable environments
where it's not going to be overs
supplied and you've got to look very
carefully at what the demographics are,
what the airlift is, where people are
coming from, how sustainable is your
labor force and legislation. So once
you've decided where you want to be,
you've got to really have a you've got
to have a long think about what kind of
management contract or or franchise you
sign because these are very long-term
contracts, typically 20 years, almost
impossible to get out of,
>> right?
>> So you need to be very sure that you've
got a brand that's going to deliver in
the long term.
And as I said, with more and more and
more competition,
um, uh, less restrictions on what they
can open nearby, your areas of
protection are diminished significantly.
And what you don't want is five other
Hiltons or Marriotts opening within a
couple of miles of you. So, you need to
be quite sure that that's going to be
the case.
So I think you know we've we've heard a
little bit thus far about some of the
kind of costs uh pressure. You mentioned
some of the levers that you need to see
like airlifts obviously. Um Sue, why
don't you talk a little bit about um
some of what you're seeing in the Cayman
Islands in the Caribbean generally.
Obviously those are things that you look
for as well or or need from either the
government um or private sector
partners. So would love to hear kind of
what you're seeing in trends um you know
kind of across the region there in terms
of hospitality but also other sectors
that are honestly um also seeing a
tradition kind of more traditional
investment coming in.
>> Yeah I think the recurring theme has
been a flight to safety and a flight to
certainty.
So in terms of safety, you know, whether
it's the developer or the consumer,
everyone is looking for jurisdictions
that have stable government, sound
infrastructure,
uh safe social environment,
um a good regulatory environment so that
if you do enter into a dispute, you
know, the courts are going to function
efficiently and fairly. Um obviously um
currency stability is important as well
but in addition to the uh safety that
long-term certainty to know that what's
current today is not going to change
tomorrow. And as Ian said, you know,
when you're entering into a contract um
for instance with a brand for 20 years,
you're also entering oftentimes into a
contract essentially with that
jurisdiction
>> where you have to say, you know, are you
going to change the rules on me with
regards to the Planning Act, with
regards to taxation, with regards to
immigration? Um, do you have the
financial resources to continue to
invest and reinvest in infrastructure
that will allow airlift to come in,
foreign workers, um, if you don't have a
sufficient local population to help
build. Um, so, you know, I think the
days of saying this is a hot market.
Let's make a quick uh, decision and go
in and be a one-hit wonder. Those days
are gone. the diligence planning
exercise and the importance of being
there for the long term is important. I
mean, we're a little bit of an outlier
because our family office has been
established in Kman over 35 years now
and uh we very much are a believer that
a rising tide raises all ships. Um so,
you know, we're in this for the long
haul. Um, but if I see one mistake that
developers make going into new markets,
it's not taking the time to research,
understand, and make that long-term
commitment. You see, I'm curious to hear
your thoughts about that as well in
terms of um the intersection between the
work that you do and uh the
collaboration with the governments and
and kind of the the local communities as
well. you mentioned obviously um
ensuring that there is kind of an ease
of business um certainly here in in the
UAE but would love to hear your thoughts
about kind of how you navigate that
>> as far as governments.
>> Okay. Uh we've had that experience we
pioneered uh with the Egyptian
government at one point um real estate
in Egypt as far as land was concerned
was becoming extremely expensive and it
was hindering the the capabilities of
companies to grow. Um and we we are a
company that we don't do like uh you
know 200,000 500,000 square meters of
land. So uh we did actually we started
with two agreements with the government.
One was um 2.1 million square meters.
The other was a city of 12.6 million
square meters of uh of land. And the
idea there was we do a JV with the
government uh with escalating payments
based on uh sales uh because in Egypt we
don't have mortgage for example and
accordingly you don't get your money
when you deliver the units uh we keep
giving our clients up to 10 years worth
of installments. So we act as a
developer and as a bank and the idea was
we need the government assistance to
grow your local developers. Um and we
did that today um uh we have about 47
million square meters. Um we're about
the size of 80% of the size of Manhattan
as far as u uh development. But to be
finished we will need probably till 2030
uh to finish to finish that size. So
this was a very very good way of working
with the government. Uh they don't
interfere at all because the agreement
is the cash flow goes to an escro agent
and they simply divide the cash flows as
far when it comes uh on whatever the
contract set. So this has given us
really a chance us and other developers
in Egypt uh to grow. When we came here
to Abu Dhabi, real estate is a business
that is very difficult to export uh
because there is a lot of knowhow. There
is a lot of regulation involved and and
and uh so we did a lot of of studies uh
we know that definitely the Emirates is
where uh you know a lot of people will
be migrating to. We see a lot of I lived
in London for a while. A lot of people
from England are are moving out and I
think now the first destination is where
we are right now. U that's for a lot of
European countries due to safety, due to
high taxes, environments uh and so
forth. So uh we did a study we we
visited with the government to
understand uh the rules and and
regulations and and honestly we felt
extremely safe and what we've been we've
been now working here for the last year.
We have an office uh actually one of my
kids is sitting right there. He's he's
he's moved here and u we feel very
comfortable with the rules and
regulations. There is a rule of law.
there is uh the the uh what we felt with
everybody working in the government that
they really want to help the private
sector. They believe in the private
sector. So we think it's it's it's been
a good move.
>> No, that's great. And I think just we do
want to pick up on the kind of
demographic and and kind of population
demand um to your point about um you
know kind of tax efficiency and where
people want to live and how people want
to live. But I just want to um uh put a
book end on the on the the government
kind of collaboration piece. Ian, if you
can talk a little bit about the work you
all are doing in Panama um at the Air
Force base and would love to hear your
thoughts about kind of some of what went
what has been going well um in terms of
collaborating with the government there.
>> Yeah, I think that you know as you've
said development is a long-term game and
you really need a stable long-term
environment and when I went to look at
Panama I was unsure about that. Um we
met with the government and as part of
the process of the privatization of the
land that we did the government created
a specific agency with a rule with a new
law for our agency and what that's meant
is that we have a a bit like here you
have a fast track to planning consent.
It's as of right it's enshrined in law
and the agency is just to ensure that we
comply with the law. So we don't need to
go to central government if government
changes. It's enshrined in in code. Um
and that's meant that there's no
corruption. There's no extended delays.
There's no changes that could render the
project useless or or or or non
nonprofitable. So we've had a really
really stable environment and that's
been great. The country's got a good
rule of law. It's a dollar economy and a
bit like this is a hub for the whole
region. Panama is a hub for Latin
America.
All around it, Latin America is
unstable. Um, and people who wanted to
move to safe havens have either moved to
Panama or if they've got a bit more
money, the US. Um, so it's growing well.
It's a good safe haven and it's been a
great place to do business.
>> Yep. No, I think um very important uh
kind of lessons learned there in terms
of what investors or or other developers
could be looking for in terms of
partnership with the government. Um but
want to go to uh what we've what we've
heard a few times now in terms of um the
shift and kind of the global migration
that we're seeing and demand kind of
change um not only for residential but
also commercial. Um and so Sue would
love to hear your thoughts about kind of
what you're seeing. Obviously more and
more folks can be remote working. What
does that mean in terms of um you know
commercial opportunities on the islands?
Would love to hear your thoughts about
kind of what you're seeing not just in
um the demand shift but al um in terms
of where but also what kind of how they
want to uh be working or where they want
to be living.
>> Yeah. I think um you know there was a
steady quiet growth in global mobility
where people again started to look for
those safe havens from 2010 to 2020 and
then of course 2020 hit and it really
changed how we looked at where and how
we work as we all know. Uh, and Cayman
was a little bit of an anomaly because a
lot of people own property there, but
what they didn't realize was that you
needed residency to transcend borders.
And um, you know, that really changed
the dynamic. And of course during that
time when people started acquiring
residency in other jurisdictions, they
realized that there was a tax
implication for that. if they started
extending their time, you know, um
whether they wrote out COVID say in
Mexico or the UAE or in Cayman and that
prompted the need to say, you know, we
really need to prove economic substance.
You know, that having that mind and
matter in a jurisdiction is is now
mandatory for us to manage our global
taxation um either on a corporate or
personal or both. So we've seen a
tremendous increase in demand for
physical office space that is actually
occupied by individuals on a full-time
basis now in Kman. Um you know to put in
perspective we're a jurisdiction of
80,000 people. Our main island is 22 mi
long and we're on track right now with
our current projects to be a 1.6 6
million square ft of class A commercial
office space which is fairly significant
for a jurisdiction of our size. Um our
cost per square foot is quite
competitive to our nearest neighbor the
United States. So we're ballpark $55 per
square foot. When you see Miami prices
now hovering around $65. So you're
starting to see a lot of companies
saying look we can now put people
anywhere and people are willing to move.
So why not go to a jurisdiction where
they can get that life work balance
where office space is affordable where
we need economic substance to take
advantage of certain taxation policies
and where we quite frankly can diversify
our risk because um you know very few
people want their intellectual capital
all in one jurisdiction anymore. Um, so
we're quite optimistic on the growth for
that. And, um, I think again, you know,
you're seeing it here in the UAE. You're
wherever there's that safety, that
quality of life and affordability of of
both office and residential combined.
Um, that's where the hot markets are
going to be and, uh, we're in one of
them.
Um and so you would love to also hear
your thoughts as you're developing um
areas this, you know, roughly the size
of Manhattan. Um what that looks like
for you in terms of trends you're
seeing. Is that shifting what you are
building and how you're building, you
know, we're seeing a lot more in the
mixeduse uh space. We're seeing more as
as we all get older uh intergenerational
housing um you know, kind of looking
more and more at uh kind of mixed income
housing opportunities. So would love to
hear your thoughts about kind of what
you're seeing in the trends there in
what you're actually building.
>> Um when when you when you go to that
size building cities, it's not about
resi only. It's about resi commercial,
it's about sporting clubs, uh
activities, amenities, uh schools,
universities and so forth. And um we
have different verticals that that we
do. uh one of which is um uh tourism in
general. Um we have in Egypt 1,300
rooms so far. Our plan is to go to 3,000
rooms within the coming 5 years
hopefully. Uh so that's that's one one
of the verticals. The other is
education. Uh we have uh two schools.
We're building another three schools
over the coming maybe 3 four years uh in
Egypt.
uh we have a university in one of our uh
developments plus uh we own we're the
major shareholder in the largest
platform for universities in Egypt with
a capacity of roughly 45,000 students.
So people look they want uh they want to
commute a lot where they live they want
to have all the amenities they have want
to have the outlets the entertainment
the night life the schooling for the
kids the hospitals the everything and uh
you know it makes a lot of sense even
when when you do these type of
developments your your return or your le
on uh commercial for example be it
office or or uh retail or so forth is
much higher uh than if you're outside of
these uh cities because people they
don't want to really commute. They want
to go home, relax, go to the nearest
place. They want their offices next to
uh next to their places where they live.
>> Exactly. We were talking about this
earlier with London in terms of you know
kind of the challenge of just the demand
for um being in the kind of greater
London area but having that be you know
kind of farther and farther out. So
would love to hear kind of how you all
are thinking about that tension between
you know having um the kind of consumer
want to be as close as possible to you
know kind of working and living versus
what the reality is of the actual
infrastructure and real estate that you
can build.
>> I think the one thing that that the UK
has done quite well particularly in
London is to is to create a good public
transport system. We have a very
efficient subway or uh tube lines. We
have buses. We have walking. We have
cycleways. And that's really connected
the city. And what it's done is to
actually make some of the outerlying
districts much more accessible now. And
so that's evened up and it's reduced the
the pricing pressure
>> on on the core areas. So you can now
live a bit further out and commute
easily. Um, and what what we're one of
the the key drivers when we look at
commercial real estate is what is the
drive time to the office? How how can
people easily get to work? What's their
quality of life? You want to be able to
live, work, and play nearby. And I think
that's something that in a lot of cities
hasn't really been thought through,
>> right?
>> They they've developed in a haphazard
way. And I think that's one of the great
benefits of a market like like this in
Abu Dhabi and Dubai. They're really
thinking 20 years out. They're thinking
about infrastructure. They're thinking
about the airport and airlift. They're
thinking about rail. They're thinking
about vertical travel. All of these
things which in Europe we're actually
years behind.
>> So
um moving away a little bit from the
kind of residential and traditional
commercial. The previous panel was
talking about tokenization. It's hard to
not go to a conference at this point and
talk about AI which leads to a
conversation about data centers and
investing in the kind of infrastructure
and um you know kind of needs technology
needs that we all increasingly have but
we don't necessarily know what we're
going to need 20 or 30 years out. Ian,
to your point, would love to hear from
from anyone on the panel about kind of
what you're seeing as an opportunity or
potentially a challenge when you're
looking at investing um in opportunities
like data centers.
>> We we haven't actually invested in them.
Um maybe we should have done earlier,
but it's easy to say in hindsight. I
think look everybody knows that data is
doubling and doubling and and and and we
need huge amounts of capacity for AI but
the the worrying thing is that debt
issuance
for data centers last year was 20
billion and this year it's 120 billion
and so
it's very hard to know what's a good
project and what's not, what makes
money. We don't know what the life
expectancy of a data center is. We don't
know how technology is going to change.
We don't know whether you've got to
write it off over 5, 10, or 15 or 20
years. We've got no idea. This is still
slightly the wild west. And yes, it's
fine if you're Microsoft building a data
center because you know, and you're the
end user, but if you're an independent
developer, potentially it's a dangerous
place to be if you don't really
understand it. Um, we saw a deal
recently in the US for a massive data
center with a 30 billion cost, 27
billion of which was funded by debt. And
I don't know what you all think, but
where I'm sitting, 10% equity in a in a
volatile business like data looks to me
to be dangerous,
>> right?
>> Sue, do you agree? Yeah. Other thoughts?
No, I just, you know, for us, our
physical infrastructure in Kayman would
not even lend itself to looking or any
of the other British overseas
territories that we look at. But I think
if you just even look at, you know, the
era of massive wind turbines, solar
farms, there's going to be a lot of that
nimi, you know, not in my backyard
sentiment
>> as well. And um you know if governments
aren't going to be there to support it
as Ian said you know even if you start
looking at public private partnership
models on that um I don't know that the
appetite is going to be there for a lot
of traditional developers that have you
know historically allocated mostly to
hospitality resi or commercial. Yeah, I
think we already see the nimiism um
challenge. Um and that goes to I think
some of the lingering risks um that
would love to kind of dive into with you
all. Um one of which is environmental.
So, since since we've been talking about
the Cayman Islands and and the Caribbean
in general, um you know, at this point,
most communities face some type of
environmental risk, whether that is a
storm, whether that's, you know, kind of
daily tidal inundation, whether that is
fires, um you know, kind of drought,
etc. And so, regardless of where you
are, you most likely have some type of
risk that has probably not been priced
in um to your overall valuation.
However, more and more we are seeing the
insurance industry pull out of of
communities and pull out of and in in
the case of the United States states
certain states altogether. And so when
you are uninsurable, you are most likely
uninvestable. So would love to hear how
you how each of you are handling things
like environmental risks, whether that's
partnering with government agencies,
whether that's partnering with insurance
companies to to enable um capital to
flow while still protecting your assets.
Sue, why don't we start with you?
>> Yeah, I I mean I think one thing that
you said immediately is insurance,
right? And Kayman is now the captive
insurance capital of the world. That is
not a coincidence. I mean, there's not a
week, I would say, that, you know, a
fellow friend from a family office
somewhere else in the world is calling
up saying, "Hey, I'm going to be on the
island to set up my own captive. You
know, can we get together while we're
here?" Um, you know, and captives are
one of the best solutions right now for
managing your own risk and reducing
cost. Um, but I think again it's really
taking a look at where you're building
and doing the research as well in
advance. You know, it's understanding
historical
uh weather patterns. It's understanding
where floods going. We invest heavily in
uh weather study reports before we do
anything. Um it's looking at the lead
certification or similar models for your
construction which we're doing you know
which again reduces our risks. We were
the first leadcertified developer in the
jurisdiction and we've adopted that
throughout. Um and it's really helping
to support government in terms of what
they're doing with infrastructure or
quite frankly becoming more
self-reliant. you know, whether that's
your own energy micro systemystems, your
own water treatment plants, your own um
self-regulated
um servers and internet. Uh we have a
master planned 685 acre community called
Kamana Bay and we have our own internet
service there. Um and all of our
buildings are hurricane resistant. Why?
because we're the landlord to um a
significant number of banks and funds
that are what help keep the global
economy going, which you know, you don't
really appreciate when you first go
there. So, I think everything is
self-reliance, self-sufficiency,
risk mitigation,
understanding the land you're building
on. Again, it's not a six-month study.
It's a several year process. And then um
really taking a look at captives right
now um and and adopting global standards
like we follow Miami Dade as our
building guideline
>> uh and I think you know that standards
going to continue to change and you have
to keep up and and adhere to that with
all your development process.
>> What's great about what you just said is
is the kind of community level
infrastructure. I mean, what you're
talking about is kind of being
self-sufficient at that level of of the
the entire neighborhood or the entire
community, which is important, right?
Because even if if your individual asset
is protected, if your neighbor is not,
the chance there's a good chance that
your valuations are going to be affected
either way, right? Um, and yeah, go
ahead. Sorry.
>> Yeah. And I think the one thing people
don't think a lot about in
infrastructure are your people. And you
know, if you don't have people with the
right qualifications and expertise in
your community on your team, you know,
everything's okay until it's not and
there's a problem. And um I think one
thing that differentiates us is we
invest a lot in our people. Um not just,
you know, the academic skills, but to
make sure we have people that are
resourceful and can solve problems when
they come up. And you know so often we
focus on the bricks and mortar but we
don't always remember the importance of
the intellectual capital as part of your
infrastructure planning and development
and that's a very important priority for
us.
>> Yeah it's true of your team but also
your tenants right the people who are
living there or working there right is
is part of that overall value um which
is important. Ian would love to hear
your thoughts of how you all have been
looking kind of across the portfolio at
any other kind of environmental risks
that were surprising to you or
challenges that you that you didn't
necessarily, you know, kind of see down
the road but had to had to deal with.
>> Um, I think the insurance thing is a
massive issue and you need to be sure
that you've got a building which is
ideally bestin-class so that if
insurance does get sticky, you're going
to be able to ensure even if others
can't. But to your point, if the if the
rest of the infrastructure is down, if
your power is down, if the airport's
down, if roads are flooded, it doesn't
really help you.
>> So, I think, you know, you've got to be
sure that the whole area, the whole
infrastructure is is uh resist
resilient. I think that's a really
important thing. And then there's local
issues. Um, you know, we've had over the
years, you know, you look at returns
in the Caribbean and they need to be
higher. And the reason is you have
weather issues, you have illness, we we
got Zika, we've had deni, we've had
COVID, we've had beach erosion, we've
had storms. You start to layer in these
risks and you've got to be really
pricing it appropriately. Um I think
perhaps sometimes we didn't in the past
you know and you know in Cayman we had
an issue with the beach and it's taken
us several years to get the government
to even approve our scheme let alone pay
for it which we're going to do in the
end. Um so it's an ongoing slow process.
You've got to really think about the
risks wherever you're developing. And I,
you know, I I I I use the Caribbean as
an example, but it it's it's true
anywhere in the world. Nowhere is risk-f
free,
>> right?
>> The risk can be infrastructure, it can
be human capital, it can be airlift, it
can be wars, civil strife. Who ever
thought that in Paris, you know, a bunch
of guys with yellow um jilele would
would actually stop the traffic and
disrupt the city for so long,
>> right?
>> You have to really think about this.
It's not a it's not a short-term quick
in and out sort of you have to really be
long-term
>> and if you're not thinking about it your
insurer is right the insurance companies
definitely think about it and will price
you accordingly not just because of your
you know specific infrastructure or your
assets but because of the kind of uh
community infrastructure would love to
hear your thoughts
>> actually we're I'm I'm extremely lucky
in Egypt we don't have much uh but what
we have sometimes is is floods and
you're as As a developer, you're between
two things. Do you uh make your
infrastructure on these floods that
happens once a year, once every two
years or 3 years or not? And the the
alternatives are it's going to be very
costly uh to do an infrastructure ready
to take floods that happen once every
year or so or you don't. And we came up
with a specific design on that which is
like swelles. It's um it's more of a
landscaping feature but that can take in
case of uh floods happening. It would
take the water uh on the uh typology of
the land and put it in areas that appear
like uh water features uh in the
development not to invest so much on the
infrastructure uh of the city.
>> Right. But all right, you need
everything as you just said is is
important to focus on. It all also costs
money to make those investments. So,
would love to hear um from the panelists
where what is it the kind of biggest
financial risk um that you that is
keeping you up at night right now and
and how we might be able to to kind of
brainstorm um ways that this community
in particular could potentially um help
to alleviate some of that. Um Ian, you
mentioned kind of the the debt burden
and some of the challenges in terms of
the overall kind of capital structure
and the financing. would love to hear
kind of where you're seeing some of the
biggest uh kind of financial risk in the
industry. I don't think up till now
we've had in the last couple of years
any great conviction as to where we
should invest or what we should invest
but we're beginning to see the cracks
postco again um I think people
underwrote huge growth postco and it
happened for a while maybe it was a
bubble the growth's flattened off
inflation hasn't fallen
um so you've got wage inflation
utilities costs food costs all these
things. So, hospitality industry, the
margins are under pressure. The top line
in many places is is falling. I'll give
you an example. In America, since they
cut back on government spending, a lot
of groups and associations have lost
federal funding. So, the top line is
more difficult. Costs are rising. And
we're going to see some distress
starting next year. We haven't really
seen distress in the last few years.
People extended their loans. people sat
and waited. They hoped they would be all
right. They cut their capex. They didn't
look after the assets. And now suddenly
that's coming home to roost. And so I we
see some fairly significant um
movement next year, I think, and you'll
start to see it in the US because it's
the most efficient market and it'll
spread to other places. I'm not seeing a
collapse at all but there will be
certain situations which are
overleveraged and distressed and I think
one needs to be ready to look at that
>> and and potential opportunity we see in
the US um you know kind of uh distressed
assets in areas like senior housing um
in uh you know some of the retail space
and seeing kind of the the redevelopment
possibility there um obviously there's a
challenge for the original asset owner
but um but certainly there's also
opportunity Sue would love to hear kind
of your thoughts about where you're
seeing kind of um any sort of uh
challenges. We we talked about cost, but
we talked about demand as well. Um would
love to kind of hear any thoughts you
have in terms of uh other kind of risks
in the market that you're seeing.
>> Yeah, I mean I think the lowest risk
segment right now is luxury and high-end
commercial. You know, they've proven um
to be the most resilient um and the most
profitable in upturns and again
resilient in downturn. it um
where I think the biggest risk is going
to be is that lower to mid-market and
the compression on what is the highest
and best use of land in markets again is
it going to be a data center is it going
to be affordable housing that's
approximate to where most work is taking
place because governments are starting
to say we're going to restrict zoning
for instance to only affordable housing
here
>> because if we don't have affordable
housing we're going to have to invest
and infrastructure to get our workers.
So, it's a trade-off. Um, I think
there's a really good opportunity that
you're not seeing a lot of discussion on
is converting properties
um, you know, historically like, uh, low
to mid-market hotels into affordable
housing because they historically
occupied some of the best real estate
and urban centers. And you're starting
to see people that are are really moving
into retrofits on those properties. The
challenge though is they don't
necessarily have um the interest from
either the private equity markets or the
lenders because they just don't
understand it. Uh so you know the
question will be who's going to put the
capital into some of that movement. But
again, the the biggest risk really is
the compression that we're in right now
of rising costs in almost everything. As
Ian said, labor, tariffs, um cost of
materials, insurance, and then you have
a decline in consumer confidence
largely. You know, people are worried
about tax policy. They're worried about
economic slowdown. They're worried about
political volatility that will change
their employment status. Um, so I mean
we're already starting to see that
softening in the midmarket. Um, but but
our uh luxury again is performing. So
the question is where does the crack
come first? Is it going to be on the
cost side or is it going to be in
consumer sentiment um starting to
rebound to the levels that it did
immediately postco?
>> Right. And I think the demand piece of
it that you mentioned in terms of um you
know why would you retrofit you know for
a kind of mid-level hotel well there is
demand actually I live in New York City
there is demand actually for apartments
that are potentially smaller but they
are more affordable and so I do think
that you'll see kind of more investment
interest once that demand is really
forecasted in a way that that makes
sense. Um you see would love to hear
kind of your thoughts of any sort of
other lingering risks um that you that
you're seeing in the market
>> being part of of the Middle East. It's
in uh in Egypt specifically it's the
foreign exchange risk. Um you know we've
had we've had many runs of high
inflation high devaluation. So this is I
think this is the largest u the biggest
risk that we have. Other than that of
course is the risk on normal u you know
employees people leaving especially to
other Gulf countries we've seen that
recently
um and building materials could be also
a challenge because of you know if uh
Gaza reconstruction happens most likely
all of the building materials will be
coming from Egypt due to proximity so I
think that's that's another challenge
how do We try to uh you know mediate uh
mitigate these these risks. We mitigate
it by uh reducing um the the size of the
the areas that we sell. So we sell
whenever any project we do, we always
try to keep 10 to 15% of the project to
be sold after the project is finished uh
just to to mitigate any risk on uh
devaluation that could happen on uh cost
increases so forth. Uh we do early on
procurement in a lot of cases. um you
know especially all the items that are
FX related, dollar related like I don't
know escalators, elevators, uh HVAC
systems, stuff like that. Uh so we we
try to procure that early on just to uh
secure the uh you know the development
itself and again by uh leaving a part of
the development till uh the project is
finished. What helps us is trying to
increase the recurring income from
hotels from uh uh you know malls from uh
retail office space uh from the
different unis for example education
>> uh with high eida multiple so I think
that's the biggest risk we have the
biggest risk again is you know an
increase in cost due to devaluation or
due to pressures coming in from like uh
you know as I said gazer reconstru
construction or uh the Gulf. There's a
lot of growth in the Gulf and they use a
lot of local Egyptian, you know,
especially engineers and so forth.
>> So, we have just a few minutes left.
We're standing in between lunch
and uh would love to send these folks
off with uh some opportunities that you
see. So, very quickly, rapid fire. You
see, you started the panel talking about
how real estate obviously is one of the
oldest industries uh that we have. We
all need places to to live and to work.
Would love to hear kind of the biggest
opportunity you see for this upcoming
year.
>> I think the biggest opportunity is the
Middle East in general. I think the um
with no offense to the European people,
but I think that's the new new Europe. I
think a lot of people will be migrating
here. uh due to getting like um for
example here even in Qatar in in in
other places within the region a very
very pleasant uh very good tax regime
uh the quality of life is extremely high
and you know for I lived in London for a
while and and the family did and due to
the new tax laws everybody just migrated
everybody's leaving uh so I think this
area is the area to to go.
>> Ian, you're holding out, right? You
haven't left yet. Have you left? Have
you moved from London?
>> Yeah. Live in Mon.
>> I never thought I would, but it become I
think it's a combination of of really
some crazy levels of taxation together
with some safety issues and other
things. And I just don't really for the
moment want to be there. I wouldn't bet
against London because in the end London
is a great international city. it will
come back. There will be a change of
government. There will be a relaxation
of some of these punitive tax codes. So,
I think London's got good
infrastructure. It's got good talent and
people. Where would I look at investing
in the next couple of years? I think in
terms of development, the UAE,
absolutely. I think they've got a
long-term plan. They're pro business.
They want you to invest here. I think
it's a fantastically fertile environment
with great demand. I think that if you
want to look, I think distress will
happen next year. So, I'd be looking for
areas that you really understand where
you can pounce quickly and buy things
distressed.
>> Amazing. Sue,
>> echoing what Ian said, any jurisdiction
that has a long-term plan, tax
efficiency, and stability is a prime
market. Uh, and I think, you know, it
comes back to real estate fundamentals.
Everything comes down to supply and
demand. You know, ask people what they
want. and just give it to them. And uh
you know the opportunity is where you do
the research, understand the market and
supply that product. And we know that
what people are looking for right now is
stability. Um that life work balance. Um
people just want easy. It's been a long
hard time. Like real estate's getting
too hard to own, too hard to you know
try to navigate your lifestyle relative
to your office space and your
residential. And I think as a community
we all have opportunities um to do that
both privately and through public
private partnerships that address that
compression that's currently happening
in the market.
>> Amazing. Well, please join me in thank
Oh yes one last point.
>> All right. One big opportunity.
>> In the world of AI you can't replicate
experiences and that's travel.
>> Amen. Well, so please join me in
thanking this amazing panel for all of
these fantastic opportunities.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you.
