Hey everyone, uh this is Aaron Philback
here at Kai Association and I am joined
by Dan Cahill who's the head of US
defined contribution with partners
group. Uh we're going to be talking
about private markets in defined
contribution plans and uh Dan I know
this is uh quite a timely subject given
some of the recent activity here in the
US. Uh so I appreciate you joining me
for the conversation.
>> Happy to do so Erin. Thank you for
having me.
>> Wonderful. Well, Dan, I think maybe to
start on this conversation as as we're
trying to figure out how does this work
from an industry uh perspective, maybe
the obvious statement here is that this
is broader than just an investment
conversation. There's a lot of other
considerations that we need to think
through as an industry, whether that's
operations, uh product development, uh
and so on. So, as you're working for a
GP, what are some of the non-negotiables
that the industry really needs to think
through in order for this move into the
DC market to be successful?
>> Thanks, Aaron. I completely agree with
that. What I would say the most
important initiative we have uh as
general partners is to educate potential
clients as to what we are offering and
how we are offering robust private
markets content. Uh I think the majority
of GPS out there aren't today prepared
to offer portfolios to define
contribution participants or individual
investors. Um although traditional draw
down strategies have been utilized in
401ks
for for probably two decades, it's not
the most efficient way. It's generally
only the most wellresourced plan
sponsors, the largest plan sponsors that
had have been able to execute upon that.
But as the market evolves, as innovation
occurs, there are much easier ways for
plans of all sizes to access private
markets generally through evergreen
portfolios
um which allow investors to uh to access
private markets content immediately.
There is no J curve. There is no gap
between the commitment and the draw
down. It also allows for client money to
be immediately reinvested. What's most
important about the evergreen structure
though in my opinion is the flexibility
that it offers which is so pertinent to
the defined contribution channel. Um the
evergreen capability allows a portfolio
manager to be flexible with where that
next dollar is going to go. Take
advantage of relative value
opportunities. provide liquidity if
necessary. Um although it is a feature
to have money be invested in a longer
term opportunity through private
markets, it's also important to be
flexible because there will be cash
needs for both participants and plan
sponsors.
>> So I think product development is is uh
certainly top of mind for for us as we
look at the broader industry uh
landscape. And uh there's a couple of
differing options that are available on
product design and you can list the
laundry list of all of this out. You
know, target date funds, manage
accounts, CITs. So if you put on your,
you know, Dan Cahill crystal ball, uh
and where this is going to go from a
product development perspective, where
do you see the starting point for
integration of private markets? And then
what does endstate look like uh for
participants from just a pure product uh
perspective?
I think the answer to that question,
Aaron, uh, first and foremost is we we
think that private markets should be
utilized by way of a professionally
managed portfolio. Full stop. U, not
dissimilar to how private markets have
been utilized in pensions for close to
four decades. Um, private markets should
be allocated to and from by a
professional on behalf of a uh an
individual investor, a defined
contribution participant. Uh, a plan a
plan participant should not be deciding
when to invest into a private market
solution. Um, that's done on their
behalf. uh and and that's what the
professional is hired to do and that's
what they have been doing for other
retirement savings portfolios and high
netw worth portfolios and institutional
portfolios for many years. And so this
is just an extension of
successful investment endeavors that
have been leveraged for for many years
but in other lines of uh of savings. And
so it's most important just to take
advantage of what's been uh tried and
true for many years. Um that
professionally managed portfolio could
be a target date fund, could be a
managed account, it can be utilized
through a collective investment trust.
Um and that's all evolving quickly. But
again,
it must be utilized by way of a
professionally managed portfolio. uh
where the where the professional
consultant or portfolio manager is
making decisions on behalf of the
participant and choosing the most
appropriate investment opportunity for
their constituents.
>> And Dan, maybe there there's a good
parallel there to what we see outside
the US. I mean, we clearly have a unique
model of retirement in the DC space here
in the US, but there's examples of
whether it's the superanuation funds in
Australia or parts of the UK, parts of
the Netherlands that utilize this kind
of tradeoff of uh professional
management with with access. So, how do
you kind of compare and contrast how
what you just described versus what we
see uh being successful in some of those
other parts of the world? Yes,
absolutely. Well, I think I think here
there are a few things at play. Number
one, uh there is a a very wide gap
between what people have saved and what
they need to have saved to have a a
comfortable retirement. So, we need to
do three things. Number one is provide
enhanced access, more access to
professional retirement plans, corporate
sponsored retirement plans. People need
to be able to to invest uh in into a
401k. Number number two is they need to
be able to save more. And so that's en
auto enrollment, that's auto escalate.
Uh make sure that people are taking
advantage of the savings opportunities
that they have. Uh and number three
where they are saving
uh make sure that they have access to
the most um robust investment
opportunities uh investment
opportunities that provide enhanced
diversification that have historically
provided uh uh access to have
historically provided enhanced return
potential. Other other doiciles have
taken advantage of these professionally
managed portfolios for many years. The
UK, Australia, uh and we endeavor to
provide a more robust set of investment
opportunities uh like those countries
have. Um, you know, Partners Group is a
global firm and the reason that we've
been able to be front-footed in this
effort here in the US uh is because of
our presence in these other countries
where we have successfully assisted
participants uh and their and their
professionally managed portfolio
managers uh to to access these private
market capabilities. Now Dan, you you
talked a little bit about the uh the
defined benefit space um and the
professional management that's there and
uh I remember when I was prepping for
this conversation, you know, the
leadership of partners group um made
some comments on the executive order
from the Trump administration uh here in
the US on how this uh push into uh DC
plans from the private market space
might actually bring some parody uh
between DB and DC. you can look at
allocations and uh there's obviously a
large difference in terms of what those
allocations look like. Where where do
you see that parity happening more
quickly um and what are some things that
might take longer uh to achieve that par
between DB and DC participants in the
US?
>> Yes, Erin, people say that we are in the
early innings of this effort to to bring
private markets to define contribution.
It's even earlier than that. I think
we're still in spring training. Um, in
terms of making sure people understand
exactly what they can access
uh and and how, you know, Partners
Group's been at the forefront of of
making sure that we understand and we
can educate our clients on on what they
have access to. partners group sought
clarification from the do on what was
permissible from an Orisa standpoint
regarding the inclusion of private
markets in defined contribution plans.
And the response in that letter was by
way of a professionally managed
solution. Private markets are can be
utilized and frankly have been utilized
by 401k plans for many years. Um, but
we're at the early innings in terms of
adoption because the masses have have
not been able to take advantage. Uh, as
we've talked about, you know, it's only
the most sophisticated and
well-resourced plans that have have been
able to provide access to private
markets. And that's what this
administration is keenly focused on. One
is what's the most effective way to
allow fiduciaries to make the best
decision on behalf of their
participants. One thing is clear, this
might not be for everybody, but it has
to be up to the fiduciary to decide on
behalf of the plan and plan participants
whether or not that's the case. And you
know I know that department of labor is
working towards the the February
deadline for the executive order. You
know a large piece of that will be how
do we make it so that these asset
classes which are the majority of
investment opportunity out there given
the state of public markets. How are
these asset classes more more accessible
to the rank and file investors who who
who need frankly um who require
access to what pensions have been
accessing for many years which puts them
in the best case in the best scenario to
retire successfully.
>> Dan I want to uh pull on a couple of
threads there. Um maybe first on the
sponsor side and then talk about the
participant side. the on the sponsor
side. um I think one of the biggest
barriers to adoption and I'll say this
wholesale you know I work with plan
sponsors uh years ago and uh the desire
for simplifying uh keeping costs low um
you know a simple menu all of those
things were through the lens of we don't
want to get sued we want regulatory
clarity um and so in some ways
introducing these strategies which may
be better for the participant goes
against some of the ration for
simplification. So, uh, when you start
to introduce things like complex fees
and liquidity and valuation and
operational considerations, it might
cause a couple of these sponsors to tune
out, which typically, as what you just
said, the less well-resourced uh, plans
don't have investment expertise usually
around uh, the table. So maybe if you're
sitting across from that plan sponsor,
what are some uh guidance um things to
think about um and tips that you would
share for someone who's trying to manage
both the participant experience and
outcomes with litigation uncertainty,
regulatory lack of clarity, um and
complexity uh wrapped around all that.
So big question, but just curious how
you would address that.
>> Absolutely, Erin. Look, a we say as we
stated, we're at the early innings of
this and education is key to to make
sure plan sponsors know exactly what the
options are for them and if if they
intend to pursue adding private markets,
uh how um you know, Deputy Secretary
Sonderling was was speaking earlier this
week on the fact that litigation,
frankly, stifles innovation.
Um, and and what his administration,
what his Department of Labor efforts
will entail is making sure that people
are are making decisions based on what's
best for the participants
uh and not what will avoid them facing
litigation will will help and not what
avoids litigation. uh the most important
thing that fiduciaries can do on behalf
of their participants uh are are to make
sure is to make sure that they are most
prepared for retirement uh and retire
comfortably. Um what what we can do is
continue to educate the market on what's
available and how um we've done
the majority of the work from from a
portfolio management perspective, from a
product development perspective that
enables plan participants to access
private markets by way of a
professionally managed solution. um will
continue to educate as to how that
professionally managed solution benefits
the investor uh by by by being a a a
large part of a um a target date fund or
a managed account. Um but at the end of
the day, it's all about education and
making sure people understand what their
options are and make the decision on
what's best for the participant uh and
not what is the least expensive option.
I think we'll get back to a a defined
contribution world in which um you know
decisions are made based on what's best
for the participant uh and and we'll get
away from regulation by litigation.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And I think that goes
to your your earlier comment on the uh
professional managed professionally
managed uh side of the experience for
that participant which I want to focus
on maybe as a final question for you on
the participant experience. Um again I I
remember going on floors and you know
you're explaining the difference of
what's a stock, what's a bond, what's a
mutual fund. So the the dispersion of
education uh even with basic financial
concepts is is pretty wide uh from an
education perspective. But maybe beyond
education, how do you kind of see the
experience for a participant changing as
private markets become more mainstream
in a DC plan? I mean I think of things
like QDAS and eligibility and
disclosure. Education is certainly an
important part of that. Um but what does
that experience look like and how does
it change uh when those are introduced?
>> The experience for a participant Eron
won't change much at all. Um the
professional will be deciding what to
invest into, how and when. Uh and so we
aspired to provide enhanced returns,
better diversified portfolios for these
participants, but it's only a small
piece of their overall portfolio. Um you
know, the majority of a retirement
savers portfolio will remain in publicly
traded listed liquid securities. Uh and
and that's an important that's an
important note to to focus on because um
in terms of product development where
the puck is going you know it's it's
well founded that because the majority
of these portfolios are in liquid
securities
um some of the portfolio can be utilized
with private markets align a a long-term
retirement goal with investment
opportunities that that are also
long-term in nature. The the entire 401k
portfolio of a younger saver does not
have to be in liquid assets. Um because
frankly that that money should not be
accessed anytime soon. The whole point
of a 401k, the whole point of a defined
contribution plan uh is is long-term
savings. And that aligns with the goal
of of private markets particularly when
the majority of the portfolio is
actually going to be provided is the
majority of the portfolio is going to be
in more liquid securities.
>> Yeah, I think if there's any strong
argument for inclusion, it's that
structural, you know, benefit of a
long-term savings vehicle um and forcing
you to take a long-term perspective
whether you have one or not. So,
completely agree with that. Uh Dan,
maybe a final closing question for you.
Anything else that we're not asking or
we're not um I haven't asked you uh that
we should be focused on as an industry
with this this move uh that we're seeing
and interest that we're seeing um in the
DC market.
>> Yeah, thanks Aaron. Look, I would say
Partners Group has has been working on
on on this effort for for quite some
time. Um we've we've been in the market
we've been in the US defined
contribution market since 2015
uh and and have been able to have a
presence because of our our evergreen uh
because of our evergreen portfolios.
Evergreen portfolios allow investors to
have immediate access to private
markets. Uh and that's that's really how
define contribution participants and
their professionally managed portfolios
should be accessing private markets. Um
it's not a new it's not a new concept
new for some uh GPS out there but that's
the most appropriate way for defined
contribution investors to to access
this. Uh what I would say is also, you
know, I think we're at the very early
innings of of how DC plan participants
can take advantage of broader the
broader investment universe, not just
what's available in in the public market
sphere, which is important because look,
our goal is to make sure people can
retire and retire comfortably. We're a
small piece of a much larger effort. Um,
but our goal is to make sure that that
we can help our participants achieve
their their retirement success. Um, and
and we'll continue to uh to do so.
>> Great. Well, Dan, I really appreciate uh
you sharing your thoughts. Uh, this is
obviously, as you said, very early
stages of adoption. And so, uh, here at
Kaioa, we're trying to figure out how do
we ensure that the industry embraces
innovation but also protects the end
investor at the end. And so, appreciate
your contribution to this conversation.
>> My pleasure. Much more to come. Uh, and
I look forward to to talking again as
this all evolves.
