Please welcome the panel on addressing
the financial headwinds faced by Gen Z
and millennials moderated by director of
Milin Institute finance Cheryl Evans.
[Music]
fell in the chair.
Well, welcome to the panel and thanks so
much for joining us and I will we'll
introduce our distinguished panelists uh
in a moment. I'm going to start out by
just listing a few headlines that I
found Merade and I found a Merade
trainer works with me in lifetime
financial security and I lead that
program focusing on everyone being
financially secure throughout their
lives and into retirement. That means
our work is quite broad. Everything from
financial
education, retirement plan access, early
wealth building, uh finance of women,
finance, financial situations of women
and many other things. So, this is an
important
topic. And so, as I was looking at the
headlines, here's a couple. Gen Z is
focused on savings, but the struggle is
real. 401k on the cusp of adulthood,
facing an uncertain future. Pew
Research. How millennials can achieve
financial security without owning a
home, which I didn't like that headline.
Acorns, interestingly, surveyed over,900
millennials and asked what they'd be
willing to do, and I mentioned this to
the panelists, to pay off $10,000 in
debt. And the responses were surprising.
The one that stood out uh the most to me
was one in 10 millenniums millennials
said they would spend a week in jail to
get rid of $10,000 in debt. So, that
that was a bit shocking, a little
disturbing. Um, let's pull up the slide
that we just have one um in the
background. Um, this is going to show
um I'll keep going, but it's going to
show um the generations so you can kind
of see where you fit. Some of us are on
the cusp. Um but this is the birth
years. Um so that's kind of an
interesting slide. We'll keep that up
for a few minutes. So the younger
generations in the United States face
unique challenges that warrant
consideration we felt separately from
thinking solely about retirement. Well,
we're in the midst of peak 65. We've
heard about that. We spoke about it
yesterday. That's really the three-year
period approximately when the most
people are turning age 65 baby boomers,
about 11,200 a day. but we didn't want
to leave behind and and really not
consider the financial situation of
younger generations. So, that's really
important for us and and you know,
they're ready to lead. They're ready to
take over and knowing many younger
people um um encouraged by their
tenacity and their strength and we want
to make sure that they're financially
secure and stable to be able to do that.
So, that's a really important topic for
us. They face a new world as we all do
frankly but unique challenges that
others haven't seen and uh we often hear
they're struggling may even be
disillusioned regarding their ability to
save and build a stable life and the
state of the world. So we'll discuss uh
what these two generations face with our
panel of experts. So I'd like each of
them are just going to introduce
themselves just say where they work and
just a sentence about what they do and
then we'll get into the discussion. So
go ahead. We'll start with Good morning
everyone. Uh, my name is Sylvia Quan.
I'm the CEO and chief investment officer
at Elst. Elvest is an investment firm
that is focused on helping women,
families, and the next generation invest
with intention.
Thank you. Uh, I'm Dot Kelly. I am the
Robert Harderway Junior Faculty um
fellow in um on UVA and I teach personal
finance.
Thank you. I'm Alexis Crow. I'm the
chief economist at PWC. Uh, and through
a number of different affiliations with
Columbia Business School and the World
Economic Forum, I focus a lot on income
inequality and inequality of
opportunity. Hi, I'm Katherine
Collinsson. I head up Transame Institute
and its center for retirement studies.
We're a nonprofit private operating
foundation dedicated to conducting
research and educational outreach around
retirement security and the
intersections of health and financial
well-being. Our ability to live long,
healthy, economically productive and
financially secure lives and focusing on
generations is a big part of our work.
Good morning. I'm Kyle Bird. I'm here to
report that the chairs are very
comfortable. So, thank you. Thank you. I
didn't have a lot to do with it, but
thanks. I'm the founder and CEO of SH.
Uh we are financial services company
that is helping this generation of of
Gen Z millennials and some Gen X move
from student loan debt to wealth. Part
of our mandate, the student loan system
in the United States is really driven by
government choices and decisions. Part
of our mandate is to bring the private
sector into this and create more
stability. And I think we'll talk more
about that. So, we're going to really
focus on what's going on with with
different generations, really two
slightly overlapping depending on your
age uh generations, how they interact
with finance, provide some thoughts on
really what the state of the world as
well for them, and then how how can they
best work to secure their financial
future. So, we wanted to start out with
the macro picture. So, we're going to
sort of zoom out and have Alexis
highlight a number of things that her
research has shown. um you've been
considering uh wealth building. Um so
we'd like you to sort of highlight what
are the some of the challenges they face
and and you were thinking a bit about
you know the financial headwinds and
what that meant and you were
highlighting the fact that we should
talk about income and wealth maybe
slightly differently than headwinds and
then kind of what's going on with them.
So if you could kick us off with that'
be great. Sure. Thank you Cheryl and
thank you so much to the Milin Institute
uh for having me here. I think firstly
it's important to say take a step back
and say everyone's facing FL today it's
not unique to a couple of generations
but I would say that how did we get to
this place and so what's interesting to
note is that within advanced economies
today so the US Japan UK France Canada
we have a structural shift of moving
from old to new economic growth and so
the pie of economic growth gets smaller
over time so you know back in my
grandparents generation you had these
phenomenal manufacturing companies and
the US could have grown at 5% GDP and
over time as you move into a services
providing economy with white collar
services at one end of the income
spectrum blue collar at the other you
just have a declining uh pie of economic
growth over time and so according to
that there's something in the economic
literature which is just the declining
labor share of income which means as a
household you might you start to see an
imbalance between the income that you're
getting versus wealth that you might
ultimately build and that looks
different from country to country as
well. There's something also which is
referred to as intergenerational
mobility. Um and Miles Cororak writes a
lot about this IGM for the econ nerds
and this is basically that the social
escalator is broken. Data shows that if
you were born in the top bottom two
bottom parts of the income distribution
that it's very unlikely that you would
rise to the top two and that has been
getting harder over time. Data also
shows that this is happening in in
countries for different reasons. So in
France for those who who are familiar
with the French educational system if
you didn't go to one of five schools in
France it's data shows that your salary
will actually be less over time. In the
United States, we place such a premium
on MBAs, uh, which are unaffordable and
out of reach for many. And so there's a
running joke that you have to work at
like this kind of, you know, if you were
working at a retail still in Washington
DC, you have to have a master's degree
even to just fold t-shirts. And so we're
in that situation, I think. So it's
important to say we have income
inequality, we have wealth inequality
and then I would say one of the most
prevalent things and this is something
that KB's tackling too is that you have
this inequality of
opportunity. Against that backdrop just
a little data point too it's like in the
United States today 65% of the wealth is
owned by boomers versus 13% for
millennials and Gen Z. And just uh one
more point. Um you you talked a little
about the the housing picture. What
that's discussed a lot in the media and
and by younger people. Can they buy a
home? What's the macro picture with
housing for the younger generations
right now? I know that I probably
couldn't afford my home that I bought 12
years ago now. So, and and there's
there's a there's a complete rebalancing
and approach to home equity as the
vision of building up your first
incremental step on the wealth ladder in
the United States. The spread between
home ownership and the cost of home
ownership versus renting has never been
bigger than it is today. Obviously,
that's for a number of different
factors. We're sitting in California
where the cost of insurance is is
somewhat unaffordable. Um, and you have
so the cost of the the maintenance cost,
you have insurance costs, you have
financing costs that are all
contributing to this. Nevertheless, it's
interesting, Cheryl, to look at the data
of asset composition by generations and
you still have for under 40s, Fed data
shows that 38% of assets for under 40s
is grouped in real estate. Um, so, so
there's still a preference even though
we're seeing this this spread between
the cost of renting and owning, but I
think people are starting to approach it
differently. You know, would I allocate
capital to my own business versus my own
home
equity? And and la one more question for
Alex and we're going to jump in and you
may have touched on this, so feel free
to say I kind of already covered it, but
um, what are the global economic issues
sort of in a big picture that that
they're facing and maybe we're all
facing at this time? We're going to get
into some volatility issues at the end
as well. Sure. I mean, I think the
degree of institutional change in
America is pushing people to look at
their portfolios differently when it
comes to allocation these days. So,
people are saying, should I get more
global exposure? What does that look
like? Does it look like currencies, etc.
So, I think there's a geographical asset
allocation question here. There's also a
question around the future of interest
rates and where we go on interest rates
and what um the bond part of a portfolio
might look like. So if you're sitting in
Brazil um with the celic rate there near
all-time highs it looks you know very
preferential to be sitting in Brazilian
bonds. Um in other economies such as
Japan the yield on a GJB is not very
impressive. So I think there's there's
an interest rate composition moment and
that's one that we're is very richly
debated in the United States right now
as to where we go in bond markets too.
Um and and I would say that some of the
other global economic headwinds are just
thinking about the future of trade and
the relationship between trade and
economic growth. So we talked about that
pie of economic growth and if you have
less income for a society going forward
because of geopolitical ructions I think
many policy makers are focused on this
right now. Yeah. Thank you. And and
let's kind of go back to the
individuals. And so what issue issues
are the generations, two generations
that were, you know, particularly
focused on facing. Uh Katherine, you've
discussed the impact that's still out
there of the recession back in 2008 and
the pandemic and your research has
highlighted that. You've got some other
interesting points we'd love to
highlight as well. Yeah, sure. And one
of the things that we see, we've done an
annual survey now for we're in our 25th
year and tracking generations along the
way. And one of the things that we see
is and this is at an individual and
household perspective. You know, we'll
have a major economic event be it
financial crisis and great recession.
The of course the pandemic was a major
public health crisis and also economic
shocks to many individuals and
households and oftentimes the economies
come roaring back. That doesn't mean
that every day people have fully
recovered and we see this right now. We
we actually asked about the great
recession all the way up until 2019
because people stood many hadn't fully
recovered yet and then the pandemic hit
and we felt it would be inappropriate to
add that one on. But where we stand
today um many Gen Z's and millennials
and older generations have not yet fully
recovered from the pandemic and its
aftermath. And Gen Z uh in particular
I'm worried about. I also very concerned
about millennials were more likely than
older generations to experience
employment setbacks and employment
setbacks translate to financial
setbacks all the way down to all the way
down the road to retirement security
because we know that saving and
investing for retirement is a life
journey. And you also touched upon
achieving stability. Talk about that the
fact that you're seeing it's a little
bit difficult for people to achieve that
stability. Maybe it's really kind of
what you just said though. Is it
slightly different? Um, well, we know
the pace of change is happening quite
rapidly and we know we have headwinds
now. We know there's going to be future
disruptions down the road because
they've they happen from time to time,
but things are happening so quickly that
for Gen Z and millennials and younger
generations which will follow, personal
resilience is more important than ever
before. Uh and that's why it's so
important that we're focusing on things
like mental and mental health in
additional in addition to physical
health because that in fact affects our
affects our earning power, our
employability and our ability to save
for the future. They're all intertwined.
Yeah. So that was an interesting point
when you brought up your research
touched upon mental health and people's
attitude and how they're feeling and
what's going on. So that is a key point
to think about. um regarding uh meeting
with younger gen Z
uh those from the generation I guess I
should say dot you teach financial
education to really non- finance majors
that's that's your primary audience
right so these these are younger people
who aren't finance majors but they want
to learn about finance so tell us what
you're hearing from them anecdotally at
least at this point regarding their
confidence and and the kind of uh
questions they're asking asking you and
h what you're hearing. Well, thank you
for having me. I'm delighted to be a
member of this panel. It's a great
collection. Um
I teach a three credit elective at the
University of Virginia. I teach in the
undergraduate business school, but the
course is restricted to non-b
businessiness majors. So, I have nursing
students, engineering students, art
history students, a lot of econ majors.
Um, and um it's it's an honor and a
privilege to do that. The it's a three
credit elective with no prerequisites.
So, I assume
uh they know nothing. And the econ
majors come in with a little more
knowledge, but the others know nothing.
And many of them um they come in with
trepidation because they're looking at
graduation. They know they know nothing
and um they're some of them are scared.
uh but I'm happy to report that after uh
14 weeks of classes and uh a lot of
reading and a lot of discussions
uh they can look at the Wall Street
Journal and read the headlines and look
at Barren and know what what is in those
articles and understand the impact the
tariffs and um uh earnings reports and
interest rates what the impact that's
going to have on them and um back to so
that's what they're feeling is mostly
it's when they're that's why they're in
my class when they graduate I often get
um I'm pleased to say I get emails from
them saying I'm so glad I took that
class because when they finally land a
job and this year it's very tough uh
they go in and they fill out their HR
forms for their 401ks and their health
insurance and they're like I know what
to do um because a A lot of them don't.
And if your parents in the audience or
maybe if you're young, you you might
have called your parent or your parent
might have got you parent might have
gotten a call saying what's a 401k what
what should I choose here? But my
students tell me they knew know what to
do how to fill it out for them and uh
one even wrote me and said I was the guy
in the room everybody was asking and he
was so the ripple effects of education
are really are very real. They're
helping not only their their roommates,
they're also helping their their peers,
but also families. Um, I have firstgen
students who are helping their immigrant
parents um navigate health insurance and
retirement plans. And I remember a while
ago when we wrote our report, the
shifting the retirement paradigm report,
we talked with you and interviewed some
other experts and you you said that a
lot of the students said that they were
coming to your class to say when I asked
you why are they in the class often they
said I don't want to end up like my
parents. They don't know anything about
finance. So that was an interesting
point as well. That was after sort of
what Katherine was saying after the
housing crisis there there were you know
students who showed up who really you
know they were young children and uh
they really suffered the families
suffered and the children were made a
resolution not to put themselves in that
position or to attempt to stay out of
that and so I think one thing we're
saying is that education is key on
finance uh we often talk about turning
towards finance as I said yesterday
rather than away even if it's difficult
even if you're not saving a lot. So, we
we encourage that. Let's turn to one of
the biggest debts and for some younger
people, it's the elephant in the room of
all ages and I took
me 25 or 30 years to pay off my student
loan debt. Uh, CL, there's there's a lot
of debt out there and I know you have
some stats on levels of debt and and um
student loan debt and how people are
what they're thinking and and their
concerns and then we can kind of get
into what you're doing to help. Yeah, I
look student loans and a lot of people
in this room understand it, including
myself and my wife, um, is white noise.
It's constantly on. If you're paying, it
can be pleasant. uh it can be also
irritating and for people who get to be
between 35 and 40 and they they're able
to pay them off that white noise is gone
and they can fill the space with other
things for Gen Z and millennials u if
you think about it between the financial
crisis and COVID there hasn't been a
time where this system hasn't been
completely
unstable and uh so we have $1.7 trillion
of student loan debt outstanding uh most
Student loan debt in the United States
is issued and held by the federal
government. So government policy and
administration to administration has had
a big effect on people. Gen Z and
millennials hold 35% of that debt. When
I started this journey 5 years ago of
building the platform of Sure and having
it be an intervention, you know, the
statistics were about $30,000 average
debt load. That would be people who
graduated from undergrad and graduate
school. That number is creeping up to
about 40,000. And during the pandemic,
and there are experts on this panel who
know this better than me, at a point at
which people didn't have student loan
repayment requirements, people were
saving more, putting more into their
retirements, they were paying down their
credit cards, they had emergency
savings, and their credit scores were
going up. Well, the accommodations have
been bleeding away, and now they're
completely gone. And what we're seeing
is debt loads go up, consumer credit go
up right now. We're seeing credit scores
go down. We've got five million people
who are in default out of the 45 million
or so student loan borrowers. And
probably over the next 3 to 6 months,
we'll see that number jump to between 10
and 15 million. Um, and what we we just
know is that this is not a a problem
that can be solved completely by policy.
Our particular perspective is that your
your employer knows where you are and
they can support. But one of the things
we've talked about, Cheryl, uh, last
year and I'll bring it up again this
year is that, you know, what I find is
that people in their 20s are certainly
willing to talk about their student
loans. Everybody they know has them and
they, you know, they're free to talk
about it. They get to their 30s and some
of their friends start to pay them off
and they still have them. and they get a
little quieter and then in their 40s
they don't want to talk about this at
all because there's a lot of shame
associated with it. So part of the work
here as we go through what can be a very
chaotic environment and an uncertain
economy for people is actually taking
away that stigma and having people talk
about it. We think that having it be a
topic that is easy where you don't feel
uh challenged um talking about it with
your supervisor um that would create a
better situation. Um I think for us and
the thing that concerns me the most
about these next uh this next year is
there is a direct connection between the
choices that people are able to make in
Gen Z and the millennial time period
around retirement and what their life
looks like in their 50s 60s and 70s. If
a person who right now didn't have a
payment in the pandemic now has a family
payment of $200 to $2,000.
What you're gonna see are early
withdrawals from 401ks and other ways.
And the way people are getting
information is they would learn it at
home and the people who had a good base
at home tend to do the best. They learn
it in really great financial education
programs that stick. Um or also they
learn it from Robin Hood which is more
gamified than anything else and isn't
creating a lot of muscle around how to
think about everything's immediate. So
it's not how to think about this in the
long term. So my my deep concern is that
if we get this wrong on the public
policy level in terms of how we bring
student loan borrowers back to repayment
at this particular point, almost 40% of
them are not in repayment and are trying
to learn how to be in repayment again
out of the 42 million people, which is
an incredible number. If we get this
wrong, we could actually injure people's
ability to have conversations about
going from debt to wealth. And in a in
an environment where 85 or so, depending
on the the um the poll you look at, 85%
of people are making decisions in this
Gen Z and millennial time period based
on what their student loan balance is.
We've got to make sure we get in between
people and this is the best time to do
behavioral change in a moment of
dislocation. Yeah. Thank you. And and
that was sort of a a burden that I
carried for a long time and I remember
being super excited when I paid off my
loans. I'm not even going to say how old
I was because I was extremely old. But
our research shows that that that the
cost of education as we all know has
gone up over a thousand%. It's doesn't
match inflation. So we can that's a
separate discussion of of why those
costs are so high. But it also gets to
our next point that we were uh trying to
highlight is you know the younger
generations as we know or more
ethnically diverse more educated and in
a variety of ways and uh what some
articles have referred to as digital
natives. Um I I like to think I'm not a
digital native but I'm getting better
although my still has to help me with
certain things. Um but um they have no
recollection of life without a
smartphone. And you know for me thinking
of having a phone that you could hold in
your hand and carry around was something
literally for those of you who who are
older maybe you're not even in the room
but was like from the Jetsons or Star
Trek where you could have a
communicator. So, so that's a different,
you
know, lifestyle and mindset and and that
sort of ties into other issues
regarding, you know, maybe not talking
to each other enough, but but it it also
informs and relates to um people's
investing uh and choices and how they
want to access financial information.
So, we are seeing uh younger people
wanting to engage with
finance through an online app, something
easy, something quick. Um and and that's
that's an interesting point and we need
to recognize that. Um there's a couple
of people that I like. There's something
called a call to leap for those I think
his um advice is really great and he's a
teacher. I just learned of Mrs. Dal
Jones. That's her name. Our boss who
runs the that's what she calls herself.
I shouldn't say her name. Our Mike Pear
who runs it my finance thought there
were all these you know issues with
calling it that but I think it's in the
I'm a lawyer. I think it's in the public
domain. But there are a number of
influencers who are out there that are
giving financial advice. But we still
have that that notion that that that
younger generations in particular want
to engage with finance in a new way. And
I know Sylvia, you've you engage with
women and and I'd love to hear a little
about what Elst does in general. And
then I know this probably rings true to
you that people want more online
information. Yeah, that that's exactly
right. And um there was actually a Wall
Street Journal article recently. I don't
know how many of you saw it, but it it
basically surveyed all the different
generations and asked where do they seek
uh financial advice and the choices were
a financial professional uh friends and
family or uh social media. Um and as you
might imagine, the older generations,
the most frequently selected option was
a financial professional. Um um the Gen
uh X, I believe, was friends and family.
And then the younger generations by far
the most frequently selected option was
uh social media. Um I think there's uh a
number of reasons for this. You know
first as you mentioned Cheryl that the
digital native um you know being very
very comfortable with getting all kinds
of advice and information uh through
technology whether that's healthcare
etc. Well why not financial advice? Um I
also think there's an element of um as
Khalil uh mentioned there's a lot of
still shame around money. uh
particularly uh for these younger
generations that are really facing uh
some some real struggles and financial
headwinds and there's a lot of shame
around their personal situation. So
interacting with technology versus a
human uh kind of reduces that and you're
like you know no one's going to judge me
if I'm you know on on my phone or
whatever and trying to get financial
advice. Um I think there's also a
distrust general distrust of the
financial industry. you know, many of
these generations have been burned
through the global financial crisis or
seen their parents um and they likely
blame the financial industry for these
issues. And so I think there's a trust
issue. But there's a fourth element that
I think um is not maybe commonly uh that
that I think our financial industry uh
has an opportunity here and and that is
um there's uh excellent educational
content out there that is free but how
it is delivered makes a huge difference.
the voice that you use, the language
that you use, the tone that you use. And
I think that's one of the major reasons
why these younger generations are going
to the fin influencers or social media
because it's the voice that resonates
with them. Um, and it's a little bit
scary because so I think some of the
advice out there is really great. Some
of the advice maybe not so great, but it
is delivered in uh e um you know they
they kind of see themselves uh in in
these uh influencers. And so I think
what we really need is the marriage of
kind of professional advice delivered in
the right voice that resonates with
these generations.
And of course we're seeing that with the
evolution of fintech products and AI
products and most large financial firms
have platforms but there there are
concerns um regarding getting accurate
information and dot I don't know what
you would tell younger people who are I
think some of them are saying they learn
information from Tik Tok which may or
may not be accurate. So you would advise
them a bit on that right? Um I I warned
them to be careful of those taking
advice from a influencer or um sometimes
um retailers. There are some online
retailers who um say certain things are
tax deductible and things and I'm like
be careful about where you get your
financial advice. Um I I've I think what
um Sylvia and Cleo said is really
important about the shame. I I've seen
it a little bit with um even at UVA we
have firstgen students but we also have
very you know um students from a very
different socioeconomic backgrounds and
the the desire to fit in and um appear
you know like a peer is very very real
and it and it and without some good
training or education they can they can
easily make big mistakes. they can just
dig the help them dig a hole for
themselves that's very hard to get out
of with social, you know, they take take
on more debt than they need. Um, student
loans are one thing, credit card debt's
another, and I will tell you one of the
things that, if you're not aware, the
big thing that is on campus is right now
is online betting, mostly with young
men. And and I I don't even, you know,
it's terrifying to me what they may be
doing with their with their money and
their phones right now. And and I had
and she's talking about the younger, you
know, the youngest generations that who
are college students, but we had some
stats that that the average Gen Z is in
maybe $5,000 worth of credit uh card
debt. Um we wanted to talk a little
about financial knowledge and we're
talking about where people are gaining
that. um what do the statistics say and
research what does research say about
the level of financial fluency we refer
to it that way um of the younger
generations I know I think Alexis you
may have some data on that and Katherine
as well I think just looking on the
global landscape here and and thinking
about the themes I think it's important
to look at what I would say is portfolio
composition versus asset
allocation and so on the portfolio
composition side as a Gen Z or
millennial, I think it's important to
think about investments versus expenses.
So, what are the investments that I'm
going to make now? For example, in
myself in terms of student education,
education, you know, beyond even a
postgrad, looking at upskilling yourself
in this technology age um what kind of
capital am I going to set aside for my
own business, for example. So going back
to the research of Piketi and Sai shows
that in the United States a lot of the
wealth generation that's happened for
the top 1% has happened from owning your
own business as opposed to owning real
assets. Um and then I would say on the
expenses side there's another concern
that we haven't really brought up today
which is pensions. And we think about
you know the ability to service your
pensions over the longer term. There's a
lot of fright about that in Japan for
example uh where households are starting
to enter the stock market in a different
way because younger generations are
afraid that the government won't be able
to to to look at their pensions. Then on
the asset allocation side this is where
it gets interesting from different
country to country. So in France and
Italy for example you have a much higher
rate of real assets on the side of the
portfolio versus financial assets. In
the United States, we have a high degree
of financialization. A record 58% of US
households are invested in the stock
market today. And that data, by the way,
hasn't become too disorderly in the
recent shocks that we've had. Um, also
in asset composition in Japan, you're
more likely to hold currency assets. In
the UK, an overwhelming share is driven
towards pensions. Uh, uh, and in Germany
and Italy, the same thing. So it looks
different from from you know country to
country and I would say that um I really
hope that doc can come to France and
share some of these ideas. I would love
to. Um I know I have some French friends
here today and and I think there's there
is a degree of you mentioned shame on I
would say the shame that's associated
with scarcity but there's also a shame
associated with abundance. Oh
interesting. Yeah. And so this has
created a very different social dynamic
where there's almost a hatred of wealth
um and a suspicion of wealth and that
has knock-on effects into the political
system too. Yes, it does. Yeah. And and
that's really an interesting point and
and and I've seen that as well as as
you're describing that.
Um where do where do the generations
stand in the workforce? Um clearly um
younger generations tend to change jobs
more frequently which impacts their
financial security stability. Um I think
Katherine you looked a little bit into
this as well. Uh job switching and DOT I
know that that um most people are going
to have more than one job. So let's talk
a little about that. Either one. Yeah.
Go ahead. Okay. I'll jump in and then
I'll hand it over to you. Um and and we
know this especially with the pace of
change and the workforce is constantly
evolving and the idea of a job for life
is something that I think kind of went
out with the boomer generation and and
people will be switching jobs more
frequently as well as spending time in
entrepreneurship, being their own boss,
uh having their own little business. And
just last week, we put out a survey
report. It's called New Frontiers:
Employers and the Evolving Workforce.
And it's the employers perspective,
1,800 for-profit companies. And one of
the things that we know about and it's
here, AI and robotics, it's here to
stay. And approximately threequarters of
employers have either already
implemented it or plan to implement it.
And we took it a step further and asked
them how jobs would change. And nine in
10 cited one or more changes to jobs.
The most frequently cited was jobs will
tra certain jobs will transform followed
by new jobs will be created opportunity.
And then about a third said certain jobs
will be eliminated. We took it a step
further to learn how much they're
focusing on their workforce development.
um because we know it takes people to
implement new technologies
uh and the numbers fall much shorter
than that. So the message to younger
generations in the workforce is you've
got to lean into this new technology.
You got to be curious. You got to learn
and grow. Uh have confidence that it
takes people to make technology work.
And there's going to be lots of
opportunities to raise your hand as
employers move into the future. So
there's job changing and it sounds scary
right now but change brings opportunity.
Yes, I totally agree about the change in
the opportunity and we are facing
tremendous change. One of the things I
teach my uh students, we talk about
total economic wealth being the
combination of your human capital and
your financial capital. And of course at
21 years old, your human capital is
enormous and you but it is also declines
over uh diminishes with time. So uh the
way around that is to build your
financial capital but also to keep
investing in your human capital, keep
developing
skills as you as you go through your
career so that you can keep earning and
saving and investing for your into your
financial capital.
Um we are facing so much change. I mean,
the people, the employers that used to
recruit at or recruit at UVA, they're
leaning heavily into AI, and they do not
need the same number of bodies to do the
same amount of work. Um, the Goldman
Sachs CEO was quoted in Financial Times,
I believe it was last fall, he said, "A
team of six, they used to use a team of
six two weeks to file a S1 registration
statement. Now AI can do 95% of the work
in five minutes. That's a lot of good
white collar careers that are or jobs
that are not going to be necessary. But
you can lean in and find because AI
can't do everything and uh you can lean
in and it will take work to figure out
how to add value. But you have to keep
doing that and keep investing in your
human as well as financial capital.
And uh Katherine, you had some
interesting facts regarding the work
ethic of younger generations. And I
think during our discussion, you
highlighted sort of a reverse
agism adage that we have have heard for
generations that the younger generation
is not doesn't work as hard as we did
and that's been going on for years and
what does your research actually show?
Right. Yeah. And that at that age
perspective I think it's been going on
for centuries.
And I even remember
my grandparents saying kids these
days and and now I'm starting to hear my
peers say that and I'm like what? Um and
when we look at the data and it's our
survey of workers um Gen Z and
millennials and I'm going to put a
bright spotlight on Gen Z. Uh all
indicators are they have a very strong
work ethic. So, not only are they
employed, many have a second job and
more than half have a side hustle. Uh,
many indicate they're having a hard time
struggling making ends meet, but they
are out there in the workforce and they
are doing their best. And as I mentioned
earlier, Gen Z's more likely than older
generations to have experienced
employment setbacks during the pandemic.
uh which also you know is a comeback
story for them that they're hanging in
there and they are focused really
inspiring. I was going to say that's
some some positive news and in thinking
about the we also focus on and think
about at the Milkin Institute
particularly in our program the changing
nature of work and and we see that work
is clearly AI is a theme and a thread
running through the the whole global
conference this year as well as last
year actually u people are going to have
more jobs they're going to work is going
to change many people are going to need
multiple need probably multiple streams
of income and are and are are are
obtaining it. And so we're hearing and
and seeing that regarding younger
workers as well. So that's going to be a
change. Uh but we also see that um not
just older generations, but younger
generations, millennials especially and
Gen Z, I think you found Katherine are
taking on caregiving roles which does
impact their financial security and um
particularly women. We'll get into that
as well, but tell us a little about that
and I wanted Sylvia to weigh in too.
Absolutely. And we we can do some myth
busting here as well because there's a
common perception that caregivers in the
workforce, people who are holding down,
you know, have a job are older workers
who are caring for parents. And we ask
workers of all ages, are you currently
serving or have you served as a
caregiver for a relative or a friend?
And it's happening across generations.
Um, millennials are in the top spot
right now and Gen Z is not too far
behind and Gen X as well. The difference
is who they're caring for. Whereas we
see millennials and Gen X more likely to
be caring for an aging parent. Gen Z are
helping out with their grandparents. Uh,
but caregiving is an everyone everyone
issue, everyone opportunity. And as we
look at the data across generations,
eight out of 10 have made some sort of
adjustment to their own employment as a
result of their caregiving duties, which
translates to their own financial
well-being. And in the options I
provided in the the survey question, the
most commonly reported is missing days
of work. But at one extreme, people are
quitting jobs altogether as a result of
caregiving responsibilities. And
society, we just can't do enough to
raise visibility to the unsung heroes of
our society. And those are caregivers,
unpaid caregivers for family members and
loved ones. We um we focused on this in
our in our broad research report, Mar
and I would that we wrote um shifting
the retirement paradigm moving towards
lifetime financial security and and it
was the same finding. One of our
recommendations was for all companies in
the US and I don't know about in this
environment if that will happen but
certainly it could in the future uh to
ensure that everyone has time off for
caregiving just routinely and that was a
finding we participated we did this
wonderful thing that I love to talk
about I'm just going to highlight really
briefly uh participate in a talking
circle with Gloria Stein and we're
invited to do that to discuss the
financial security of women Sylvia
joined us as well and so we highlighted
you know what's different about women in
investing and also younger women. So,
Sylvia, tell us a little about what
Elves does and the education component
and sort of what you're seeing uh
regarding this general topic of
caregiving and also women in saving.
Sure. So, so LS was really founded to
help more women engage with finances and
investing and that was really in
recognition that women have been sitting
on the sidelines when it comes to
investing. I think there's a um a survey
that Black Rockck puts out every year
that basically shows that the average US
women's portfolio is 70% in cash. And so
when you think about the gender pay gap
and if women aren't investing and that
money needs to last longer because
generally women live longer than men do,
women are not set up for financial
success. And so Elves was really founded
to try and close all of these gaps um
through whether it's education, through
investing solutions and really again um
you know trying to meet women where they
are uh and and trying to break down the
barriers that they see in engaging with
finances. We found that women don't feel
uh welcome in the financial industry. So
really digging deep and trying to figure
out, you know, what are those barriers
perceived or real that women have and
how do we build an experience that
really speaks to women and resonates
with women in a voice um that makes them
feel welcome. Um so we're uh that's what
we do at Elst. um in in terms of the the
care economy, I think that's a really
interesting one because um a lot of the
the women that we hear from uh are
caring for children and parents or both.
And there was actually a really
interesting um statistic, I hope I got
it right, that I heard here at the
Milkin Institute uh that talked about
sort of all the unpaid labor that
generally women have in in in the care
economy. And the I think the stat was if
if all these women uh could save one
hour of this unpaid labor that would add
a trillion dollars to global GDP. Um
that's a really really big number. And
this doesn't mean like oh if I save an
hour of unpaid labor I now have an hour
to work. No they could take an a nap for
that hour and have the mental and
emotional capacity to show up in other
areas of their life. So it's not just
unpaid work and and regular paid work.
Um, so we obviously have a lot of work
to do in this. I think um there's a
there's certainly, you know, I feel very
optimistic about the role of technology
um and AI to um help close some of these
gaps. Yeah, thank you. And we we kind of
touched on this, but you we're we're
seeing that some of the younger
generations are in a little bit too much
credit card debt, but that kind of
applies across the board actually to be
candid. and and Klo, you help people
think about debt and and the shame that
can come with that. Um, tell us a little
about what Shore does for for the
audience because I think it's an it's
really an impactful program. We're kind
of kind of get to a few more topics, but
if you could briefly tell us, I think
it's important to hear what you're
doing. Thank you for that. I appreciate
it. Look, we we built Sure because um in
sort of mirroring the work of companies
like Elost, which are helping women see
themselves um as a community that can
learn from each other and then there can
be outliers who may bring things to the
community that that change minds. We are
trying to help the financial services
industry see people who are carrying
student loans, especially between 22 and
45, as a cohort. And so we have a
platform that we know your your job the
one thing we know is that your job know
the way you are. So we deliver our
platform uh the biggest partnership we
have is with Edward Jones. So Edward
Jones will pay for our platform. They
will make it available free to their
employees to customers uh who may be in
their ecosystem who have student loans
and their impact focus. So to members of
the community we call it sure powered by
Edward Jones. There are 150,000 for
example student loan borrowers in St.
Louis. Edward Jones is a brand that is
trusted in St. Louis and nationally. um
when we reach out to those folks and
say, "We have services for you to help
you think about repaying your student
loan, but also actions. Uh how are we
going to help you move from that student
loan through that that car loan through
that 527 or 529 to the purchase of the
first house, we want to be there for
you." And I think the thing that is
really important about student loan
borrowers in this cohort is the
phenomenon is that they're making
decisions, but they're making them late.
And all of us on this stage were we're
taught about compounding pretty early.
Everybody in this room understands that
the earlier you get in the game, the
better off you'll be. If you and I see
this, I have a good friend who doesn't
mind my talking about her story. She's
an incredibly successful nonprofit
professional who I went to graduate
school with. Literally the day that she
uh finished her uh student loan
repayment at about 45, she bought her
first condo and which is an amazing
story except it would be great if she
could have bought that at 32. And one of
the things we believe very strongly uh
in understanding the credit score is we
partnered with Equifax and we were doing
deep study down to the zip code level on
how student loan borrowers are being
impacted by uh their student loan, how
it's affecting their credit and their
wealth building ability. One of the
things that we we just know is that that
uh student loan borrowers are making
these decisions late and they're not
really being marketed to by insurance
companies, by banks, by financial
advisory firms until they've repaid,
until it becomes obvious. We want to
give people credit for having longevity
on their in their job, for having making
good decisions as a family about saving
and about credit and other things. So,
we want to introduce people to the
larger banks and financial institutions
earlier than they would uh normally.
Instead of meeting a financial adviser
at 40, we want you to start that
conversation at 30. A statistic that was
very interesting to me in preparing for
this um about one-third of people who
are making $250,000
um are living paycheck to paycheck. And
here we talked about the generational
divide in in my role in talking to
seuite folks um and investors and others
to try to get them to understand student
loan borrowers in the workforce as a
cohort. Not just people in college but
in the workforce is really talking to
boomers and talking to late Gen X people
about the student loan cohort who people
who are 20 to 40. The divide is very
wide on how they think about it. I will
just say that the the sort of boomers
and the late Gen Xers think these
younger generations are irresponsible
that they made a series of choices and
they they just proflegate. They don't
want to pay and etc etc. And you can
introduce information and data about how
unstable the system has been on the
policy side as we go from administration
to administration. I haven't found that
to be effective. So the thing that I
hope is going to be effective is the
idea that the private sector can look at
a market of 30 million people plus their
families. So I can get you to a 100
million people who are impacted by this.
And I will say um in terms of women,
women as they are as they are stacking
on more responsibilities from between 20
and 40 child care responsibilities.
they're working. They decide whether to
go to graduate school because they're
working in those fields that require
them are carrying more debt than
everyone else during this period. So,
they go from student loan debt right to
caregiver um without a break. We've got
to make an intervention on the private
sector side to acknowledge and
understand this and make it something
that is a solvable problem between
government, the private sector and the
individual borrower. Thank you. and we
wanted to uh quickly move through a
couple of other important topics. So,
we're really kind of moving into moving
from debt to wealth building, which is
really the goal for everyone and no
matter their generation. So, um a couple
of points I wanted Alexis to to
highlight some research. But first, um
Katherine, what are you seeing regarding
uh savings rates in retirement plans and
and access to those plans by younger
generations? Just quickly, because we're
going to cover like three or four
things. Okay. So, we're seeing good
news. Uh, right headlines, some good
news. Uh, today's workers are
increasingly offered a the ability to
save for retirement in the workplace
through a 401k or similar plan. Um, Gen
Z and boomers a little less likely to be
offered a plan than millennials and Gen
X, and it's because they're more likely
to be working part-time. And even with
Secure 2.0 0 and its provisions for
eligibility for part-time workers. Uh
there's still a bit of a lag there. Uh
so the great news is they're offered
plans. By and large, if they're offered
a plan, they're saving for retirement.
Uh and Gen Z and millennials are
starting at a much younger age uh than
their older counterparts, which gives
them a longer time horizon to save.
However, there is a a butt and that is
we're seeing a lot of opportunity for
them to optimize and prioritize their
financial decisionmaking. Something that
came up a little bit earlier in that in
many ways they're better at saving for
retirement than they are building an
emergency fund and then if disaster
strikes they're going to tap into their
savings which of course is
counterproductive to their long-term
goals. So a big aha moment and something
that I think collectively all of us can
do is raise awareness on the importance
of priority financially prioritizing
things so that you can optimize your
savings and build wealth in the long run
and avoid suboptimal decisions. Oh,
great. Thanks. And Alexis, sort of what
are what are your thoughts on moving
from debt to wealth building? I guess
it's kind of more from the big picture
but I guess two things here and I will
end on the bright note. I think the the
first one is to come back to that your
your own household portfolio composition
and are you taking on productive debt
and if so for what are you taking on
productive debt to invest in yourself
whether it's you know tertiary
education, secondary education etc or
education for your children. Are you
taking on productive debt because you'd
like to have this investment outlay of a
home equity asset or again for your own
equity in your company? So I think
that's the first thing and then that
kind of removes some of the
stigmatization. The second thing is yes
show you're right we we are reaching
record highs in credit card
delinquencies in the United States.
Philadelphia Fed shows that data set is
at an all-time high.
But his on a historical basis, the
percentage of disposable income that
you're allocating toward debt and debt
servicing is not exactly unaffordable at
this moment in time. I speak to my old
mentor, he's like, "You have no idea
what my first mortgage cost." You know,
it's like, so, but so, so we are only at
about 11% in the United States. So,
we're not at a dramatic moment. And I
think also as as Americans, we have to
look at a, you know, what what other
societies are potentially doing better.
In China, you have a
36%o uh household savings rate. That's
the highest in the world. So, it means
that when you come into a situation like
a downturn in the housing market, you've
got a lot of dry powder. And if Warren
Buffett has been sitting on record
levels of cash, 347 billion. I think
we've got to think about dry powder.
Yeah. Interesting. Can I comment on on
that really quickly? Yeah. Um so, going
from debt to wealth, I think this is one
of the reasons I really I love the um
Khal what you're what you're doing here.
I feel a lot of people who have whether
it's credit card debt or student debt
feel like they need to tackle things uh
sequentially and and you know I worry
about some of the uh you know
influencers out there who really stress
you should not have any debt at all like
debt you know shouldn't be part of the
picture you shouldn't use it
strategically and you know as we all
know these younger generations time is
their biggest ally and so if you are not
you can pay off debt and also save for
the future at the same time and It's
important to do both when you have time
as your ally in terms of building that
wealth. That's an important point and
and a lot of financial experts refer to
good debt versus bad debt. You know,
student loan debt can be good debt
depending on how high it is, etc. So, um
and and owning a home for many people is
going to appreciate over time,
particularly when time is on your side.
And so, the that can be an asset. I
wanted to just touch briefly on uh the
wealth transfer that we're seeing and
then we can give some advice before we
before we go. Just some positive advice.
So, so um we're seeing the largest
wealth transfer in history from baby
boomers to younger generations that's
been discussed in other sessions and
women are inheriting a lot of that
wealth. Um are women prepared and others
prepared for wealth building? And
Sylvia, I'll start with you and what are
your thoughts on that? Yeah, so it is it
is already underway. You know, we
definitely see uh beneficiaries of the
great wealth transfer. First of all, it
is actually going to women first because
women live longer than men. uh sometimes
10 years or longer and then also going
to the next generation and I think for
the first time you know for for at least
some women who have always delegated
those responsibilities this is the first
time they are actually having full
independent agency over money and this
all the surveys say basically that uh
women and I think this is also the same
for uh the next generation is once they
receive that money they uh in most cases
they actually fire their either their
parents advisor or their joint advisor
Um, and so that that's not good for us
in the financial industry. So we we need
to find ways to engage them early as
Khalil was saying. Um, and and the other
thing that we're also seeing in terms of
the younger generations are a lot more
open to non-traditional investments, uh,
alternatives, private, you know, whether
that's crypto, real estate, etc. Um, so
I think that's also an very interesting
trend in terms of the investment
solutions that we can create for this
generation. And and the we have two more
questions. Um, so what do we think the
industry can do to develop solutions?
And I know Sylvia, you touched upon
that. Everyone may have just a a quick
answer and then we'll ask in the last
minutes to just like one piece of
advice. So So what do we think the
industry can do? I I know you mentioned
personalization as an issue, right?
Yeah. So uh personalization is an issue.
I think this generation is all about
personalization. Um and I also think
this generation also wants to be more
intentional. And so what we're finding
is they are more interested in aligning
their investments with their values. So
creating opportunities for for them to
invest both with financial returns as
well as positive impact will be really
important. So in our last minute and a
half, which is that means each of you
get 20 seconds. I'll stop talking really
quickly. Um uh what are the either what
are the generations doing well or what's
a piece of advice you'd like to give? So
we'll just go down the line. We'll start
with K with KB. So, uh, macro policy
advice, we have 30 million people coming
back to repayment. If we make a
connection in that behavioral change
moment between their repayment and
wealth building, we can actually win a
lot of the battles we're talking about
here on a personal uh basis for each
individual. Don't hide from your student
loan. It's going to be there whether you
want it to be or not. Thank you,
Katherine.
Okay. A key to long-term financial
security is being economically
productive throughout our working lives,
access to good jobs, as well as
potential time and self-employment. So,
while you're investing your finances,
also be sure to invest in yourself.
Great advice. Uh I would say on the
asset allocation side, geographical
diversity is the name of the game. Uh
getting into alternatives has to be an
increase here. And I think something we
didn't really get into and it's somewhat
of a dirty word these days is impact. So
thinking about that for future
generations. Um on the personal
portfolio construction side, I'm going
to dovetail with what dot shared on
human capital and financial capital. I
would say have two things. One is an
absolutely unswerving focus on your
vocation. I am a big believer that we
have a specific set of gifts, skills,
and talents to bring to bear in this
world and there will be enough labor
income to cover that. Combine that with
flexibility on wealth creation. We've
just received a huge shift to the way
portfolios have been written over time
and you've got to be flexible and
surround yourself with the wisest people
who want the highest and best for you
and be selective with that guidance. and
uh your financial well-being is a major
component of your overall well-being.
You must invest in it. Learn to take
care of your financial well-being just
like you invest in your personal,
physical, and mental well-being. And it
will allow you to work and save and
invest longer and have a productive and
healthy life.
And mine would be start investing as
early as you can. Even if it's $5 a
month, if you are young, you have time
on your side, that money will compound
over time. So, make investing a good
habit. And then lastly, I'll say that we
we've uh talked about making sure that
you connect with your future self. Even
if you're younger,
take care of your future self. Even if,
as I said many times, you need to think
of it as a different person. The young
you needs to take care of the old you.
No one's coming to save you, but you can
do it. We're You have the power and
learning about finance is key. So,
thanks so much for joining us today.
[Music]
