Hello and welcome to the session on
credit markets and transition. My name
is Mike Pivar and the executive vice
president of Milin Institute finance.
Credit markets are under undergoing a
significant transition driven by changes
in economic conditions, government
policies, advances in technology and
increasing competition. What new
opportunities and risks emerge as a
result of these changes? How are credit
market participants adapting their
business models? How are they adapting
their investment strategies? In this
session, our panel of experts will give
their unique perspectives on the
challenges and opportunities facing the
credit markets in a time of
transition. Let's start with the macro
environment. Two weeks ago, the World
Bank and International Monetary Fund
held their annual spring meeting in
Washington DC attended by ministers of
finance and trade representatives from
all over the world. A key theme from
that meet those meetings that was that
we're entering a new era for the global
economy. But there's a lot of
uncertainty not only in the short term
during trade negotiations but also in
the long term about what exactly this
new era is. So I want to get our panel's
perspectives on how this uncertain macro
environment leading to some sort of new
era is affecting credit markets. So
let's start with our credit CIOS. Mike
Buchanan, what's your perspective on
this? Great. And uh Mike, thanks for uh
having me here. I always enjoy these
panels and certainly enjoy the the
conference. Um yeah, you said it. I
mean, uncertainty is the is the key
word. Our base case um is for slower
growth, but still positive growth, which
I think is key for uh for corporate
credit. Um, if you kind of look
historically,
uh, slow growth is actually maybe even a
little counterintuitive. It's actually
been a pretty good backdrop for for
credit in general. You've got management
teams that are a little more nervous
about what the future looks like. So,
they guard their their balance sheet.
They really perhaps avoid or are a
little more conservative in terms of
aggressive capex. Um, so that's
actually, you know, a decent starting
point, but then put on top of that,
three of the last four years, uh, you
know, we've had a really challenging
rate environment. So rates have reset to
much higher levels. So your starting
point yield is is is really attractive
right now. Um, I know you can push back
and say spreads are somewhat tight, but
I think if you look historically, yield
tends to be a a better indicator of of
return versus spreads. It doesn't always
mean high yields are going to translate
into, you know, strong returns. Um, but
you you at least have that as a as a
starting point. Um you in our view you
have good solid fundamentals which again
is a is another ingredient to um decent
returns in in corporate credit and then
you have a a Fed that um has has room
certainly and I think a bias to want to
cut rates a four four and a quarter four
and a half% policy rate you know they
have the flexibility to do so um policy
initiatives policy
implementation that's going to play key
role in how we move forward from here.
Um, and you know, I know everyone's
talking about tariffs. That's front and
center. I I won't belabor the point, but
I do think there are there there's two
ways that that tariffs could break here.
I think the more likely one is that you
you know, you start to see some
agreements, and it's really just more
about good bilateral negotiations um and
and a fair trade agreement for the for
the US and key trading partners. That's
fine for for credit even though I would
say some of the damage has has already
been done. You probably saw the news
last week about um shipping containers
uh you know down 60% in April. the the
the other way it could break which would
be a little more concerning um would be
if you you know there and I think some
in the administration are are a little
more dug in on this but you know you
start to have this view of of really
rebuilding the industrial base in the
United States um you know bringing
manufacturing back to uh to the United
States which is a you know a nice goal
it's comp it's complicated it takes time
it brings a whole host of uncertainty So
um you know I I guess I'll just sum up
by saying you know again our view is
slower growth but positive but around
that base case we have a lot more um
volatility and you know you really have
to watch kind of how things go from here
and and keep in mind we still have and
you heard Secretary Bessant talking
about it this morning we still have tax
cuts that are gonna we're going to be
hearing more and more about that. Um and
you know you you still have um other
policies, other initiatives,
deregulation, the emphasis there. So
there are some offsets to to the
challenges we're seeing with tariffs.
Yeah. So it sounds cautiously optimistic
would be potentially a a way to
characterize what you're saying. Yeah.
Yeah. That's it's a good way of
characterizing it. Good starting point
for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And you were
saying, you know, the Secretary Besson
also mentioned that, you know, we could
likely see agreements as early as this
week on some things, which would be
great news for the market. Yeah. And I
think that's what the markets are are
pricing it is that path is is more
likely, but you know, time is is of the
essence. Yeah. Peter, I'd love to get
your perspective on that. Do do you
think that path is is that more likely
to go that direction and and any of the
other things that you're seeing in the
macro environment? Well, the big word we
hearing hearing a lot of is uncertainty,
but that also means change and change
can often be very positive. Um, also
change is integral to economic growth,
especially the US economy which is
renowned for innovation and change. So
from the investing standpoint as an
asset manager and lender u there's going
to be a lot of opportunity including new
types of investment offerings and
solutions u that also consistent with
how the economy is changing. Um one of
the things that um
bel and everything is u a tendency for
people to stick to the status quo. Um so
the big challenge I think that everyone
will have is to uh while and this of
course is a credit panel uh credits
arguably compared to other asset classes
of course the defensive one. Um so of
course we have to be very focused on the
challenges that come with change and and
uncertainty. Uncertainty is when things
aren't clear and we're hoping for more
clarity and everyone's talking about
maybe we're going to get more clarity.
uh but I'm coming back to I see mainly
opportunity and
um the Milton conference of course is
very focused on the power of the US
capital and enterprise system um and and
how that can en enable so many people
and and so many things to grow and and
happen and change very positively. So I
see this it's not without challenge. I
see this as a fundamentally uh positive
reshaking of the way things were and it
was time for a change. Yeah. So Mike
also mentioned he saying that the Fed
has a bias to cut rates. He thinks. Do
you agree with him or what do you think
the Fed's
um well everyone in Washington is very
focused on the fact they're in
Washington. So um I I think um the Fed's
conservative. They're I think we're all
expecting them to stick with their core
mandate and not to put that at risk. And
so we'll see that they'll want to
support economic growth and and if that
looks if the growth I mean I think
everyone's aware that no one wants to
have both create a recession and an
economic crisis especially not at the
same time and I think the Fed will focus
on that neither of those things happen
and have a have actions consistent with
that. Michael your views. Well, I think
what a lot of this dialogue comes down
to is the distinction between sentiment
and fundamentals. And I think we all see
sentiment weakening, whether that's
consumer confidence, whether that's
business sentiment, but what we try to
do is isolate that soft data from what
we're seeing in hard data. And I think
when I look at the credit side of the
equation, whether it's corporate credit
where leverage levels today are lower
than they've been over time, earnings
momentum has been and continues to be
strong. We don't see a lot of stress in
the system. On the consumer side,
similar dynamics where employment data
continues to be resilient. A lot of home
equity supporting consumers, low debt
payments as a percentage of income. And
so you do have this fundamental picture
that has been quite resilient. And what
we're spending all of our time is um
really figuring out um will we continue
to see those resilient fundamentals to
absorb some of the slowdown that
inevitably comes from uncertainty. And
we leverage all of the insights across
broader Blackstone to do that. We over
have over 5,000 credits in our credit
portfolio. We obviously have a very
large private equity and real estate and
infrastructure business. And that allows
us to glean data in our portfolio
companies, talk to our CEOs, really see
what's happening on the ground and how
they're feeling about their businesses.
And then what we do is when we see
disconnects between sentiment and
fundamentals, when we see valuations
that are attractive because of that um
disconnect, we don't shy away from the
volatility. We play offense into that
volatility. And you saw us trade $5
billion of credit in the week after
April 2nd. you've seen us lean into
other strategies in this market and I
think that's what it comes down to
really understanding the fundamentals
and when you see that divergence between
sentiment and fundamentals taking
advantage of it. Great Deborah I'd like
to put your allocator hat on here.
What's your perspective of what's going
on the macro environment and what are
the opportunities and risks that you
see? Sure. So for those of you who
aren't familiar with us, we manage about
$200 billion US on behalf of uh to
support the pensions of people who uh
serve Canada. And uh we have a
multi-asset class portfolio as you might
imagine is about 50% public and 50%
private alternatives including private
credit. And uh one of the things that as
a asset owner that backs pension
liabilities that's really important to
us in this environment is the inflation
risk because the pensions that we back
are inflation linked. And so uh I think
one of the things that's relevant to
private credit that we're seeing is uh
the opportunity for the intersection of
infrastructure and private credit
because what we're looking for is both
the defensive nature of asset classes
like private credit or infrastructure
but also uh there are opportunities on
the infrastructure side to get some
inflation protection and I think that uh
the way the private credit market is
evolving and you know Michael and I were
just talking about this before the uh
before the panel. I think there's this
really interesting opportunity for us.
We have $45 billion in public fixed
income that we see opportunities to
activate into private credit in ways
that can get us give us really
interesting uh investments that are well
suited to this macro environment. I
think that's a really interesting point
that because when you think about the
private credit markets, a lot of people
define it as a very thin slice which is
um sponsor back finance, direct lending.
The truth is that's only a $2 trillion
market. The overall private credit
opportunity is $30 trillion plus, right?
And much of that is in the areas you're
highlighting. This intersection between
real assets, infrastructure, assetbased
finance, real estate credit, much of
which is on the investment grade side of
the equation. That is a market that
today is still in its infancy but has so
much opportunity to to deliver durable
excess spread 150 to 200 basis points
over what you can get in liquid credit
where most of our partners around the
world are either unallocated or severely
underallocated as you mentioned. I'd
like to add to that because um the
structural trend thanks mainly and maybe
it's a really good thing actually u bank
regulations u banks are shedding or
being in the future have will hold fewer
and fewer long-term assets. So corporate
lending broadly and now I'm not not
talking about leverage finance but near
investment grade and investment grade
equivalent I'm not talking about rated
corporate loans will increasingly be
supplied by align non-competitive
partners to banks globally. um that's
happening here in the US. Um it's going
to happen in Europe. So it's it's it's
back. I'm agreeing with both of you.
It's very broad. And I would say that
the the u the start of private credit
after the GFC with mainly smaller
sponsor leverage finance was just the
was just the starting gun for all of
this. And we're looking at a multi-year
opportunity of new attractive investment
opportunities for investors. Back to
yield. You're talking about spread. So,
we're talking about things that are
actually less levered um and and will
will have lower spreads which will
probably then be coupled with leverage
to deliver the types of returns that
investors are used to. And Mike, you
were asking me to to make this point. Um
I think people think of us as an asset
allocator, but in private credit, 80% of
our 20 billion private credit book is
directly invested. 20% is in funds. And
that's a business that to Michael's
point, we've been growing since 2015,
but has been largely focused on sponsor
finance, almost exclusively focused on
sponsor finance. And now we're looking
at the opportunity to apply that
expertise, work with our infrastructure
investors, which by the way is another
direct investment uh investing
capability that we have to find to
unlock these interesting opportunities.
Look, we're on the same journey. you
know, 2015 we probably had next to
nothing in private investment grade
credit. And today we're over a hundred
billion dollars in that market alone.
And not to be uh left out of the private
credit discussion, um you know, I I
would say one of our observations, and I
I think we're all probably saying it in
one way, shape, or form is this this
blurring of of the lines. Um and I, you
know, that that's playing out in in real
time. There's not so blurring of the
lines between public and private. Yeah.
You know, there's just not this rigid
line where this is private, this is
public. Um we're doing a lot of deals
now that um have all the elements of
what look like or public deals. You
know, they're they're investment grade.
Um they're large deals for for large
companies. um they may not have a they
may not have a traditional underwriter,
but they have a what I would call a
quasi underwriter and there you know
there there's many uh investors that
participate in that that theoretically
is private and then on the public side
you know we we're doing deals that are
very clubbed up they're they're
underwritten um small group of investors
very very structured very hard to kind
of get to the finish line um so I think
our our clients Um and the feedback we
get from consultants is that they um not
only are um you know like that the idea
of being able to play the whole spectrum
you know from from private to to public
um I think there's an expectation that
that you have the resourcing you have
the capacity the um you know just the
ability to kind of understand what their
needs are like you said duration um you
know is it yield maximization is it
income um and be able to find the part
on that spectrum
that best suits your your your client
and and truly have the expertise to
deliver it. Um I I think that's you know
where we're going and you know I think
probably all of us would agree that um
you know we've come a long way in the in
the last five years and I think going
forward you're going to continue to see
this play out. Yeah. So, you know, in
addition to this blurring of the lines
between public and private, even within
private, you traditionally had very
highly specialized niche players in
there. What you're suggesting is that
you need to be more generalist in this
space or or or be a cross strategy. I'd
love to get your view on this and then
and then the other panelists agree or
disagree. I guess I'm not saying there's
not room for, you know, there's there's
some great direct lenders out there and
they're really good at that and that,
you know, that's their their focus. Um
what I'm saying is that you do need to
have some abil you you can't just be
rigidly in you know public or private.
You have to have some flexibility to
understand what's happening in the the
peripheral markets and be able to to
take advantage of that. So doesn't mean
you have to you know try to do
everything on that that spectrum but you
have to have some capacity to operate
you know in the border territory. U I
put a different I put a different uh
perspective on it. Um we um our firm AGL
is a corporate credit specialist,
corporate credit risk specialist and we
and we're private. Um but we can do
anything in corporate credit. Most of
most people think of us as a CLO manager
because we just happen to have a lot of
CLLOs, but it's there's a reason for
that. Um and anything that's corporate
credit related, of course, we're very
conscious of price information. So
anything that's public security that's
relevant corporate credit we're aware of
that we're private side we we use that
information take advantage of it. Um we
think that uh we actually as a
specialist um can deliver specialized
opportunities and value to to our
investors and there's a benefit there's
there's a role for both. Yeah. I think
what we're seeing is a is a pretty
significant theme across our investors
of all types whether that's institutions
insurance uh clients, individuals is a
notion of what we call multi-asset
credit, which is a little bit of a a
spin-off of what you were describing,
Mike, which is clients want to figure
out how to access the holistic
opportunity set across credit, private
credit, structured credit, liquid
credit, real asset, credit, and
assetbacked finance. they might want to
access it in slightly different forms,
but what there's a broad recognition is
there's the yield opportunity in the
credit market today is incredibly
attractive. How do I partner with a
manager who sees everything across those
markets and can figure out where the
best risk adjusted returns might be? And
especially in a market like we're in
today with volatility, that could pivot
pretty quickly. And so the ability to
leverage
uh insights, data, and access across all
sorts of different strategies within
credit. We manage probably 20 different
strategies at Blackon within credit
alone to build a
resilient, diversified portfolio that is
set up to be all weather, but also lean
in when we see the best opportunities in
the market that inherently show up at
times of volatility.
Mike, I would just say I kind of twisted
my head when you said generalists
because what I think our opportunity is
to combine specialists. So, for example,
you know, we have a a successful private
credit business that we've talked about,
but we also have a fantastic
infrastructure business that we've been
building for 20 years. And uh one of the
founders of that business is uh our new
CIO and he's here with us today. and the
opportunity for us to combine
specialists to find those opportunities
in infrastructure debt or work together
on opportunities like infrastructure
debt I think is what's really
interesting. So, not a generalist, a
portfolio of specialists maybe or
specialists that at least work together.
Work together. Excellent. But a lot of
that, correct me if I'm wrong, is to be
able to access the broadening of the
opportunity set that it sounds like
we're all seeing in the credit markets.
Yeah. Peter, I want to pick up on
something you mentioned. Um, you know,
the the part of the reason for the
growth you see in private credit is the
bank regulations that came in during
DoddFrank. The banks just simply can't
do certain types of of lending that's
there. love your perspective on a couple
things. One, um how how are the banks
reacting to this? Are they just
complaining and saying you guys are
getting this or are they actually coming
to you and go, you know what, you can
help solve a problem for us. And the
second question is how are the are the
bank regulators starting to breathe down
your neck? One of the things I've
learned about banking regulators is, you
know, they have their bank credential
regulation hammer and everything's a
nail. So, are there threats to sort of
regulate you like a bank uh and then
have the same restrictions? Well, part
of the reasons Michael is asking me this
question is because AL has an exclusive
arrangement with with Barkclay's Bank
PLC um to exclusively access private
credit opportunities out of their
beverage finance franchise. So, we're
deeply into this. Um, I'll just add
quickly before I answer your question
that the pressure of regulatory pressure
on banks to have fewer long-term assets
while being shortfunded that with short
deposits insured by the government is is
a movie with like 20 going on 40
sequels. So, this is a structural
long-term trend. Um however back to your
question it suddenly really changed
because uh back to the GFC when private
credit really in corporate loan private
credit came to the four as banks for
regulatory it wasn't that they can't do
smaller highly leveraged loans they just
can't do them at scale for capital
reasons.
um they've lost a lot of market share
and u traditional incumbent private
credit players attracted a lot of
capital especially because of the yield
in the in the free money no low interest
rate environment. Um with all that
capital the private credit transactions
moved upstream into larger EV borrowers
and were directly competing with banks
in their traditional broadly syndicated
loan and high yield franchises. So
what's changed is banks said you know
what um we don't want to lose these
customers and what's important for the
banks aren't the loans it's the customer
relationship with all the other things
that the banks do especially with
private equity sponsors where they're
bringing ideas for acquisitions add-on
acquisitions
IPOs they don't want to lose the
borrower so what's changed is they've
gone from defense to offense and um
there have been many announced u bank
asset manager partnerships Ours is one
of them. Ours is one of the earliest and
arguably um special given Barkclay's
market position in leverage finance. But
this is a long-term trend and it's going
to it's going to go into other forms of
corporate credit. I mean, I'll just add
one more thing. There are a lot of other
versions. There's uh SRT, synthetic risk
risk transfer uh transactions. There's
there's NAV lending and while the
portfolios are private equity, the
underlying risk is corporate and on a
loan to value basis, you can get a
credit asset out of it. just pointing
out that there's a lot going on and you
know banks are now uh they're heavily on
the playing field and I would just say
that the private credit broadly stated
ecosphere is actually undergoing change
big time. Yeah, Mike love your
perspective on this and then on the
regulator side you guys are pretty big.
So um are they coming in try to regulate
like like a bank? Um I I guess I would
maybe take a a bit of a a different spin
on the on the question because um you
know clearly yes I mean banks are are
more constrained um you know more
regulated um and that has uh really t
created what we're all talking about
here. The private credit markets have
have flourished as a result of that. Um,
and I guess one of my takeaways on that
is that um, it's actually really good
for the longevity of of credit in
general. Um, because there's more
pathways for financing. If you you know,
you hit a an air pocket, you know, you
stumble along the way. Um, you know,
there's the there there's the, you know,
traditional high yield market which can
close and and and open um, you know,
based on on sentiment, but this huge
private credit markets there and usually
there are deals to be done, albeit at a
price or with a with a certain
structure. Um so I you know I think one
of the I don't know if it was unintended
consequences but by banks pulling back
and you know the private credit markets
growing um I think it's just created
more uh more more financing alternatives
for companies during periods where you
know again they they might have stress
they might be you know going through
some economic challenges um which
ultimately means you know maybe not
lower impairment lower defaults but the
idea that you get time to heal those so
you you know you'll have more financial
flexibility down the road and and you
have more flexibility on workouts and
all those other things sometimes the
banks do right so yeah I would argue you
know sometimes companies historically
you know I've been in the business since
1990 we've seen companies that defaulted
that really didn't need to default they
were starved of liquidity at a point in
time when they needed it and um you know
just the public markets weren't open and
and you know there there really weren't
a lot of great financing alternatives.
Now there there there's there's a lot of
people that are more than happy to come
to the rescue. Um and and like I said at
a price, you know, it's going to be
collateral claims, it's going to be
structure, you know, that they will
price it accordingly. But um again, I
think that that that allows these
companies to navigate through a
challenging period. Yeah, Michael. Well,
I want to maybe answer your question in
three parts. The first your direct
question around regulation. I think
there's a a good understanding that
private credit what many of us here do
uh is very different from the bank model
right our portfolios are unlevered or
very modestly levered versus a bank
who's running a pretty levered balance
sheet. Our assets and liabilities are
completely matched. And I think when you
think about the risk profile of private
credit vehicle I think there's an
understanding um how different it is
from a bank model. So I think that's the
first point. I think the second point is
um I think a lot of people like to
attribute regulation as the primary
driver of why you've seen this move from
um a bank dominated market to private
credit being the preferred source. I
would say the biggest reason why you've
seen that is because it's a better
solution for the borrowers. Right? If
you think about what we're doing as a
private lender, we're bringing our
capital all the way up to the borrower.
We call it this farm-totable model. And
what happens in that process is all the
leakage, all the fees, all the
inefficiency along the way, it gets
dropped. And we sit in the room with a
borrower and we figure out how do we
deliver you speed, how do we deliver you
certainty, how do we deliver you
flexibility, how do we help you after we
make the investment to drive operational
improvements and things like that. And
so I think what's really happened is
private credit has become a preferred
solution because it delivers a better
result for the borrower, a better
experience for the borrower. Now all
that said, that doesn't mean that there
isn't a very large role for banks to
play in this ecosystem. Um, but I think
they'll you'll see more and more
partnerships like Peter alluded to and
you know at Blackstone we're we're
interacting with the banks across all
our businesses on a daily basis. You
know, the touch points are very
extensive and we've found several ways
and will continue to find ways to
partner with banks where maybe there's a
situation where they want to keep the
origination or they want to keep some
elements of the client relationship,
which is totally fine because what we
want, what our investors want is that
asset and that partnership between banks
focusing on origination more, client
service more, and allocators, investors
like us figuring out how to match an
asset that fits what our clients want
whether that's return rating duration
whatever the case may be I think you
will see that more and more and I think
that's a healthy thing for the ecosystem
and Michael in that model how do you
think about the alignment between the
bank and the investor providing capital
so I think the key thing there Deb is as
an investor I need to underwrite every
piece of credit right it's great if a
bank brings me a deal we welcome that
but at the end of the day we're
accountable for the performance
performance of that investment and that
where that's where it comes down to your
underwriting process, your committee
process, all the insights you have to
make sure that you're making a great
loan. Absolutely. Mike, I was just going
to say that um you know the Canadian
pension investors are large players in
the Canadian financial market and so uh
we meet with our central banker uh
regularly and one of the things that
they have been asking about is the
development of the private credit market
and and um they are concerned because
it's not regulated but when I think
about the fact that our book is
unlovered the fact that we've been in
the business for 10 years with, you
know, 11% unlevered returns and 0% loss
ratios. Um, and the fact most
importantly that we don't have that
asset liability
uh mismatch so that we have capital if
our good companies get into trouble to
be able to live through it. Two of the
biggest step functions in terms of
private credit market share were during
co and during 2023 when we saw a lot of
volatility in the markets. Why is that?
Because private credit is set up to step
in to times of volatility and support
companies when they need that capital.
Borrowers remember that. And so when
they need credit in normal times, they
go back to the lender that they know
they can rely on. Yeah. The the reason
why I was asking about the the bank
regulators living in Washington DC, you
know, they're always looking for the
next set of systemic risks. what's the
next threat to the financial stability
of the US? Right? So, the banks are
shedding this and you all are I hate the
term shadow banks, right? And they
started looking and whoa, what's the
problem here? And your point, Michael,
it's like, well, and and you said it,
right? Unlevered, no asset liability
mismatch here that's going on. But the
amount of education by individual firms
and trade associations to the regulators
to explain this, it's like nothing to
see here. Um, I was just curious if you
were feeling it at your firms and stuff,
but it sounds like that's sort of died.
Uh um so that's that's good actually. Um
I want to I want to zoom in now. Um
instead of taking the 30,000 foot level,
let's zoom in on the evolution of of
some of the the transactions, the deals
that we're seeing where in terms of the
great opportunities that you all see in
the coming months uh going forward. Um
what are you seeing are the biggest
opportunities? And this can be and feel
free to tell me you know specific
sectors, investment grade versus high
yield, maybe the duration, geographies,
etc., or whatever. What What are you
most excited about? Deborah, let me
start with you. So, I think for us it's
that uh intersection between
infrastructure and private credit. Um
you know, we just uh our our firms just
did a deal together uh called $7 billion
deal in uh Rogers Communications. uh we
participated in the senior part of that
capital structure and per and for us it
was a great opportunity to invest with a
great partner but also to get the uh the
yield and the duration uh that we wanted
for our portfolio. Yeah, Michael, other
than infrastructure, well I would say
I've touched on a couple of the things I
like private investment grade
multi-asset credit. Uh I would just talk
about asset back finance broadly. You
know, this is a market where um we'd
find it as financing the real economy.
So, think about it. Everything
from digital infra, energy and power,
consumer credit, real estate credit,
both resi and commercial. This is a
massive market that is um again largely
underallocated and largely
underpenetrated by private credit. Yet,
it is a market where you see incredibly
strong long-term secular demand drivers
in areas like digital infra and data
centers and the shortage of power in
this country. And you need credit
capital to support that. And so, if you
can step in and provide financing in
these areas, get a lot of excess spread
around 200 basis points versus
equivalently rated liquid credit, that's
a really attractive thing, especially in
a market environment where there might
be some uncertainty around tariffs.
Again, if you have a hard asset that
protects you in a market environment
where um potentially folks are
overallocated to corporate credit,
here's a diversifier. Here's how you
bring down risk, bring down correlation
in your portfolios. I think there's an
incredibly long runway there and Deb
mentioned Rogers. We've done several
deals in this market and I think that
will be a continuing trend to watch out
for in the months and years to come.
Yeah, Mike. Oh, sorry, Deborah. Did you
want to jump in here? I I was just going
to say I mean in the Rogers case the
underlying asset is the wireless back
haul. So I think that's pretty stable.
Mike. Yeah. I mean that that question
you know where where's the the best
opportunity or some version of that I
always like to think of that before I
come to one of these panels and I like
to have something kind of memorable. Um
and I and I don't really have that right
now but I think that's because of the
environment that that we're in. um you
know when I opened by talking about the
macro environment I talked about um a
base case but I talked about elevated
uncertainty around that base case um and
I think that's something when you're
when you're thinking about the market
today there really are a lot of
different outcomes so you have to think
about an investment that can you know
can can kind of have some resiliency or
durability even if your base case proves
to not come to to fruition. So in a in a
way it's like um you know playing
offense but in a defensive way and and I
think a great way to do that is um is is
large systemically relevant banks um you
know they don't have much vulnerability
to tariffs. They've over the years and
you know you probably know this as being
on that side of the the the business but
the um you know they've just
dramatically improved their their
lossabsorbing capital. um they trade
cheap to the market. So banks in Europe,
banks in the US, um I'll go for Deborah,
banks in Canada, too. Um but I think
that's a um an area where you get really
compelling risk adjusted returns and and
you don't really need to take a lot of
risk because higher, you know, the the
yield environment that we're in. So I I
like that. And the other thing, I'll
just be really quick on this is um we're
going to see more volatility. We've seen
a lot of volatility year to date. Being
in a position to react to that
volatility, to lean into it when it when
it's happening. Um, and as long as you
don't believe the fundamental
environment is disruptive, I think we're
going to get some um some opportunities
during the year to like we saw back in
April to take advantage of volatility.
Yeah. Well, that was memorable. A large
systemically important bank there.
That's a very good very good answer
there. It's Peter. Um, so I I agree with
everybody and this is a credit panel and
credit is a great place to be especially
in a time of change and uncertainty and
especially with the return to a normal
interest rate environment. We've talked
about yield. Uh, but I'll put a kind of
a different perspective on this by
saying that um, a time of change is a
really good time to make sure you're not
a prisoner of beta conformity and just
the way things have always been done,
especially where a lot of change is
happening. And it's also a good time to
ask basic questions. Um, one that I
think is a really good one, especially
investors, asset managers, and everyone
to think about is with all these changes
and with a portfolio, credit portfolios,
the essence of the safety and the
consistent future, past and future
returns is diversification, effective
diversification. So, with all these
things going on, what is that? Should
effective diversification be rethought?
Um we hear a lot about maybe 6040 is
changing the relationship of equities to
bonds and some some people will say well
that's an important diversification
parameter. I don't know if that is
actually because it's 6040 is really
about the price relationship of equities
to fixed income and I'm not sure that
price changes outside of your control
and subject to random events has
anything to do with diversification.
Another conventional way of thinking of
diversification are industry
classifications. Most of which are dated
many many years into the past and really
have almost nothing to do with uh the
businesses that are financed by private
credit or broadbindic leverage credit.
So I'm just I'm just pointing out
there's a great opportunity to rethink
of everything. saying there are a lot of
opportunities but you have to be
creative and kind of challenge existing
thinking and sometimes the best
opportunities and solutions are actually
hiding in plain sight. So we're looking
we're looking hard but it's it's a it's
going to be I'm we're very optimistic.
There's a lot of there are a lot of
tough things going on. Um but you know
the and by the way I would say that the
great thing about the US and the US
economy in particular um is our economy
has always powered through and I'm
confident that it will.
So over the weekend Warren Buffett
announced uh his retirement. He famously
said you know only when the tide goes
out you find out who's been swimming
naked. So, um, we've talked about a lot
of the opportunities, a lot of the plus
stuff, but we've got maybe some
imprudent borrowing that's built up in
the system. Um, any predictions on what
we're going to see in terms of potential
default risks with um with with all this
volatility that we see in the market in
terms of either it's a specific sector
or types of firms or those sorts of
things. We'll just go down the line
here, Michael. Well, the theme I keep
talking about is dispersion. Again, I
think the overall health of the credit
ecosystem is there. You know, if you
look at our default rates over 2,000
non-investment grade borrowers, we're
below 50 basis points. I think the
overall health in the credit system is
there for the reasons we described. Loan
to values are low, earnings growth is
solid. Um, but it's inevitable that you
will see dispersion and you're starting
to see some of that. And so, where do we
see um areas of potential weakness? The
thing that we always talk to people
about is don't reach for yield. And you
said it, Peter, even in this market
environment, there's no need to. Base
rates are reasonably elevated, spreads
are attractive. You can make attractive
returns in all parts of the credit
markets without reaching for risk,
without saying, "Okay, I'm going to try
to stretch, try to make 50 or 100 basis
points more in lower quality credit."
And so I think some of the more out of
favor sectors, some of the capital
intensive sectors, maybe some of the
smaller borrowers who don't have cash
flow, I think those are the places
where, you know, you might be enticed to
reach for yield. I think if you stick to
your knitting, focus on low loan to
value, non-yclical businesses with high
cash flow conversion, I think you'll
continue to see those areas outperform.
And those are the areas that we've built
our portfolio around. Like when I get
asked a question around tariffs, it's
comforting to be able to say, hey, 80%
of our portfolio is in software,
business services, healthcare, sectors
that are not cyclical, not capital
intensive, do not have heavy
manufacturing, that are going to be
exposed to goods inflation. And I think
if you build your portfolio accordingly,
it's really a great time to be in
credit. Maybe I'd just add that during
these times of uncertainty, the really
the thing that um when we run um
different scenarios through our credit
portfolio bottom up um is the the
U-shaped recession scenario is the thing
you really need to worry about. I think
that in the recent history, we've been
spoiled by more V-shaped recession
scenarios. And so, one of the things
we're thinking about is what is that
U-shaped scenario look like and which
businesses should we be paying more
attention to um when we run that
scenario?
Peter, I would say the um yes, the the
dreaded not the V, but the straight down
in a long line straight out flat is, you
know, is is is not good. Um, but it's
very that's rare and you really need
some serious shocks and it's usually an
over overheated economy that's that's
hit with with interest rate shock that
would cause that. But we don't know the
environment has a lot of new things
happening in it obviously. But I would
just make the following comment. um um
looking back at past cycles including
leverage borrowers both um broadly
syndicated loan borrowers and private
credit borrowers and the ones we focus
on at a jail are borrowers who can do
either. So it's a larger larger
companies that are really relevant to my
comment which is that I've never seen
compared to before the GFC 040506
um 1999 2000201
especially 8687 88 89 I was there then
um credit quality has never been higher
loan structures have never been more
robust quality of companies and
portfolios best it's ever been if
anybody just I I know the the um
founders of KKR are here. I'm sure
they're not in this room, but I I bet
most people here don't know how much
equity was in the RGRCS buyout, but
um there wasn't very much. I can tell
you that. I'm just pointing out that the
not only is the economy strong, as we've
been hearing. Um but credit quality in
the portfolios that LPs are invested in,
broadly speaking, are very very strong
and well positioned. And the the recent
the angst has been around the return to
a normal interest rate environment and
has put pressure on on interest coverage
of borrowers that arguably were taken
private with too much leverage in the
free interest rate environment. And
that's true at the margin but but not in
the whole. So we're we're very
constructive. And to be clear, our base
case is not the U-shaped recession
scenario, but uh I think it's important
during these times of uncertainty to
think about portfolio management, not
just deployment. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm
glad we're talking about recession
because, you know, the the the question
on defaults and the direction of of
defaults. Um as a credit investor, I
mean, that is the one macro driver that
really dictates the the path for for
defaults. And um you know even though I
was talking about a lot of volatility
around that slower growth scenario, I do
think if we slip into a recession, it's
likely to be more shallow. I don't I
don't see a risk of a significant
recession just because corporate
fundamentals good starting point,
balance sheet health is is is pretty
strong. Consumers in decent shape. Um,
so you know just related to your
question on where defaults I I I don't
see an elevated default environment and
I do think uh again just kind of going
back to what I talked about earlier if
we get to a point where companies start
to stumble there's quite a bit of
capital that's ready to be deployed to
uh to take advantage of that for their
for their investors and their LPs but
that'll alleviate the the the bankruptcy
backdrop. Yeah. So you started out
cautiously optimistic. Now I'm feeling
very optimistic about the future from
what everybody's saying on this panel.
So um unfortunately we're out of time.
So So Mike, Peter, Deborah, Michael,
thank you so much for sharing your
insights today. Thank you. Thanks for
having us.
[Applause]
Peter, nice job.
