Please welcome president and CEO of
Nvidia, Jensen Hong, in conversation
with Institute Chairman Michael
[Music]
Milin. Thank you guys.
[Music]
They're big fans of yours. I think
that's for you.
I think the hoohoo is for you. And I
think your
outfit is for for me. So,
welcome.
So,
AI is this the next industrial
revolution?
Yes. The next manufacturing revolution?
Yes. Let me let me uh let me explain.
So, so all of us have have um uh been
talking about the technology of AI that
it can perceive the world, it can uh
generate content, it can translate, uh
it can now even reason and um solve
problems, use tools, use the web
browser, read PDFs, um uh do research
for you. And so so we know what the
technology uh is able to do and that's
very exciting in itself. It's
transformative completely in itself. uh
we understand that the technology is
unlike uh any IT technology of the past.
Remember IT technology is a tool. You
have to use it to make it effective. You
have to sit in front of the computer and
use it. uh but now AI has the ability to
uh automate and the concept of of
robotics and robots are very well
understood and so imagine a physical
robot but you know we understand that we
can imagine that uh imagine a digital
robot and it's in you know in the
computer in your data center doing work
for you and so so this is it's exciting
because for the first time it's no
longer just replacing or the next
generation of the IT technology that we
know but for the first time it actually
could augment um and add to the digital
workforce. And so the part of the
economy that is part of uh is much
larger than a trillion dollars is part
of the hundred trillion dollars. And so
that's that's the first layer. The
second the second layer is uh how do you
uh how do you generate this AI? How
where does the AI come about? You know
whereas the the last generation of
computers uh was uh software written by
hand and it runs on CPUs. What NVIDIA
took some 33 years to build is this idea
of a new type of computer that learns
the machine learns to write the software
itself and it runs on this this
processor this computing platform we
invented called accelerated computing
and GPUs and so so so now the question
is how does the AI get produced and it
gets produced in essentially what people
call data AI data centers but it's
essentially a factory it's unlike a data
center it doesn't look like a data
center um it's uh quite large in scale.
Uh it does use energy and it produces
you apply energy to it and it produces
these things called tokens but they're
basically numbers and these tokens can
be reformulated into numbers or words or
images or pixels or videos or chemicals
or protein combinations for drug
discovery. um or even uh uh mo motor
skills uh necessary to drive a robot or
steering wheels to drive a self-driving
car. And so that these tokens are being
manufactured by this factory. And so
what's interesting is that people are
starting to understand that that there's
a whole new industry that has been
created. This new industry has a factory
and this factory there are AI factories
and um uh how large can the these
factories be? They you know they could
be a gig. We're building ones that are
about a gigawatt and each gigawatt's
about you know 50 60 billion dollars and
over the course of the next um you know
call it 10 years or so uh I wouldn't be
surprised to see tens of gigawatts of AI
factories being built around the world
and so that's the second layer. The
third layer that's that's probably even
more profound um is that for the very
first time you have a capability a
technology
um that affects almost every industry
from financial services to healthcare to
manufacturing to logistics to you know
retail to entertainment you name it. And
so so this this
this infrastructure if you will this AI
factory now becomes an infrastructure
for a whole bunch of other industries
and and uh just like the last generation
this infrastructure is kind of hard to
understand but the last generation we
had the information infrastructure and
the generation before that we had the
the energy infrastructure and now we
have the intelligence infrastructure and
the the internet was is the information
in uh infrastructure. ffstruure and
artificial intelligence is this one and
so so now you know I think when you look
at AI from those different lenses you
could start to understand the impact of
AI to the technology industry that we're
in to a new industry uh that that every
country want to be part of anybody have
excess energy you're going to want to be
part of this industry uh to the
infrastructure that affects every
industry so let's step back for a couple
minutes and talk
about the skill sets needed to
interact. Um we estimated a number of
years ago that if you took the most
modern agricultural
technology that in the world you might
eliminate a half a billion jobs of
what's going on in farming subsidized
etc. There's significant cons, you know,
questions
today. Who's going to be
disintermediated? Now, I had a
substantial advantage
uh in the 1960s that I could calculate
yields in my head and then in 1970 they
came out with the
calculator. So, I got
disintermediated. Uh then looks like
he's done pretty well since the
invention of the calculator. Then I
could remember millions of trades and
then computers started storing in those
trades. What do you see in the concept
of work and the interaction with the
technology you're going to provide?
Yeah. Um so we've you all of you have
heard a lot about about job
displacement. Uh every job will be
affected. Uh some jobs will be lost,
some jobs will be created. Uh but every
job will be affected and immediately it
is unquestionable. You're not going to
lose a job your job to an AI but you're
going to lose your job to somebody who
uses AI. Um but let me give you and
those are those are fairly common sense
things to to to uh uh to have observed
but let me give you the two extremes
that you might want to consider as well.
Uh computer technology computer science
has benefited about 30 million people.
There are about 30 million people in the
world who knows how to program and use
this use this technology to its extreme.
And it's really benefited all of us that
have been in this industry the last 30
years. Potentially one of the best and
most most wealth creating industry you
could have selected. I could I could
have been a petroleum engineer. My dad
was and uh I could have been I could
have been a doctor. My my mom thinks
everybody should be a doctor.
uh but I chose I chose uh to to go into
computer engineering and it turned out
to have been quite a good good choice.
Um and and how however however there are
about 30 million people like in in this
industry. Um and so we've created Mike
in the last you know 30 40 years
probably the greatest technology divide
the world's ever seen. The the the
instrument that we've invented uh we
know how to use but but the other eight
seven and a half billion people don't.
Um I I'll I'll put on the table that in
fact artificial intelligence is the
greatest um opportunity for us to close
the technology divide. And let me prove
it to
you. You know, if we just look in this
room, it's very unlikely that more than
a handful of people know how to program
with C++. Um and uh an equally equal
number know how to program in C. Um and
yet a 100% of you know how to program an
AI. And the reason for that is because
the AI will speak whatever language you
wanted to speak. You could draw a
schematic and show it to it. You could
draw a picture and ask it what to do. Um
you could, you know, obviously talk to
it in in words. You could you could
write a prompt. Uh you could describe
your prompt in a very explicit way. Uh
you could describe your promp prompt in
a very implicit way. Uh and if you don't
know how to program that computer using
AI, you just tell the AI, I don't know
how to program you. How do I program
you? and the AI will tell you exactly
how to program you and and program it.
And so I think that that um and the
number of people who are using ChatgPT
and Gemini Pro and these AIs kind of
demonstrate that in fact this is one of
the easiest to use technologies in his
in history. And so now all everybody
could take advantage of this capability
where there's a a a teacher or a student
want wanting a tutor and every student
should use it as a tutor. I use it as a
tutor every day. And so I think the the
ability for us to now use artificial
intelligence to close the technology gap
is incredible. So that's one extreme.
The other extreme that I will say is
that remember uh we're we have a
shortage of labor. We have a shortage of
workers. We don't have an abundance of
workers. we have a shortage of and for
the very first time in history we
actually have we can imagine the
opportunity to close that gap to put 30
40 million workers back into the
workforce um that otherwise otherwise uh
the world doesn't have and so you could
you could argue that artificial
intelligence is probably our best way to
increase the GDP the global GDP and and
so those are you know two two other ways
to look at it in the meantime I would
recommend a 100% of everybody you know
take advantage of AI And don't be that
person who ignores this technology and
this result loses you. So let's talk for
a moment. They're going to walk out of
this
room and Thursday after six days of the
conference, they're going to want to
learn more about AI.
Do they ask their computer to teach them
about AI? Is that what we're going to
do? Excellent. Excellent way to do it.
Just pick up your phone, get yourself,
you know, Perplexity is pretty good.
Chat GPT is really excellent. Uh Gemini
Pro is excellent. I use all three of
them. And um just ask it whatever you
want to ask it about AI and it'll tell
you as deep as you like it to be. And I
sometimes I I um uh in areas that that
are fairly new to me, I might I might
say uh start by explaining it to me like
I'm a 12-year-old and then work your way
up into, you know, into a into a
doctorate level over time. And so so I
you could all do the same. Let's look at
it from another side. Johnson, you your
family came from Taiwan, you went to
Washington, then the eventually your
parents moved to
Oregon and I've had a chance to finance
many other entrepreneurs. Uh Bill Gawan
comes to mind at MCI. So he had a
company that had 99% market share in
AT&T that he wanted to take on. In those
early years that you often talk about
you didn't know if you're going to make
it or not. He often was wondering where
the payroll was coming from every month.
Um what did the other companies miss who
had more access to capital than you did
at the time? What did they not see that
you saw?
Um
gosh, what in other words in Intel, what
did Intel not see in the market? What
what did they not recognize? Yeah. The
reason why I paused it to say it is is
um because from the very beginning we we
imagined so what we were trying to do as
a company was to build to invent a new
way of doing computing that solves
problems that normal computers can't. In
fact, if you just if you just wrote that
mission statement out to do something
that normal things can't, it's like to
go I would like to build a new car to go
places where normal cars can't. Well,
usually what happens if normal cars
can't go there, those places
also aren't paved with roads or they're
not that desirable to go to anyways. And
and um and so we we came up with this
mission statement to solve problems that
normal computers can't. And uh uh
several problems with with that with
that mission statement. Turned out it
took us three three years to do and it's
we succeeded at it. But the first thing
is that the whole economy, the whole
industry, the whole ecosystem wants to
go where problems can be solved. Nobody
wants to go to where problems can't be
solved. And and so where where we are
was rather lonely. You know, there
aren't other people solving this problem
because it's hard to solve. uh there
aren't many customers because they they
tend not to choose problems like that.
They want to have their problems be
solvable, not unsolvable. Uh and and
then the other thing is is that Intel
watching us the whole time I had the
benefit and you said they had they had
um greater source of cap access to
capital and that's completely true
because they were so successful doing
what they were doing. They kind of
rejected what we were doing and that's
in fact the good news over time. The
reason why it took us so long is because
it's hard. And the reason why we're here
alone is because people left us alone
for a long time. And and and there there
there's a there was a book that was re
written recently and I I I picked it up
and skimmed it. Uh Peter Teal's 0ero to1
book. In a lot of ways is kind of a
story about Nvidia 2. You know, we we
chose we chose to do something that
nobody thought was possible or very hard
to do. um and very unlikely to succeed.
Uh but to us it was very common sense.
And so I think simultaneously because it
was hard to do um and also because they
were so successful doing what they were
already doing, they kind of rejected the
idea until until everything came
together. Well, and you're also trying
to make sure your company doesn't go in
the direction of Intel also. So you're
the leader today. How do you get that
culture of constant innovation? And if I
wanted to talk about Captain Kirk to go
where no one has gone before,
um I think I think
partly well first of all there's just no
guarantees but but um we have several
things about our company that's really
quite extraordinary and and and I
appreciate it as a person. I I wish my I
wish upon my kids and the people I love
to have have the same same his same
experience which is which is that long
long suffering that comes with struggle
and you never take anything for granted.
You're super super efficient. Uh you're
trying to you're trying to save
everything you can save every penny you
can because you don't you don't know
when you know how long the struggle is
going to last. uh you have incredible
resilience uh because because it took a
long time to do it and so the company
has has that in its character. Uh almost
everything we undertake these even these
days are you know 5 10 year endeavors.
We're probably we're probably the the
deepest in this new area called physical
AI which translates to robotics uh in
the world and um uh the fundamental
technology necessary for the next
generation of AI were probably the
furthest along the deepest of anybody
and and so so I think I think those
those characteristics of dreaming big on
the one hand um and having the
resilience and the character to to
suffer until you see it happen. I I
think that's that's very good. Um I
think the the other part that's good is
is um you're always going out of
business for us for you know for 30
years we're always in a perpetual state
of going out of business and so you
don't take anything for granted and and
I I don't you know when we when there's
a setback it doesn't it doesn't it
doesn't trouble me too much. Um when we
make mistakes it doesn't surprise me too
much. uh when we have success, I don't I
don't take it for granted and we don't
celebrate it too much. Um and we really
stay, you know, stay focused on on doing
our work. And so I think part of that is
is just how long it took to build a
company. Let's talk for most lay
persons. How do you make a chip? What is
required to make a chip? So we all like
we'd all go out there and make chips. We
have no idea how to go about it, but
we'd like to. And as you remember, the
US passed an act. We're going to invest
62 billion. And then they discovered six
months later, there's no one in the
United States that knows how to build a
factory. And we need to get 7,000 people
from Taiwan here. Mhm. Okay. Well, with
all things, I think I think craft craft
and artistry matters. Um, if you want to
learn how to build a chip, you know, I
would start with YouTube and then and
then
Uh so it turns out uh we started we're
very good at building chips and the
reason for that is because we build uh
not not since IBM in the 60s has a
company like us existed where we come up
with a blank sheet of paper design a
brand new architecture create the chips
create the systems um create the
networking create the infrastructure
write all the software take that
software to the market um have the
world's developers and ecosystem develop
for that computer kind of like we
develop for um for uh iPhones and you
develop for Windows, you develop for
Nvidia and so so u not not since not
since the 60s and 70s uh when IBM built
everything from the ground up has a
company like us exist. We build the
chips but we build the entire system and
we're really we're really an AI
infrastructure company today. If you
look at the systems we build, each one
of
our chips, if you will, it's a ton and a
half. This is a ton and a half chip.
It's $3 million each. We build these
things in very high volume. Uh we we uh
uh manufacture it, assemble it, and then
we test it. We use a supercomputer to
test the supercomput because you have to
be smart to test if the computer you
make is smart. And so we test everything
is liquid cooled. Uh, and then we we
test everything, assemble everything. We
disassemble everything, put it on a
plane, ship it to wherever the the the
data center is, assemble it again
outside their door, put it inside their
data center. This entire process has 200
manufacturers and uh um supply suppliers
working with us around the world. Uh we
build a couple of hundred billion
dollars of it a year. These at this
moment, we're the largest technology
company, chip company in the world, I
guess, if you will. And so the it's it's
it's uh incredibly hard to do. Our R&D
budget, you know, per generation is
probably about 2030 billion dollars. Um
and so these are this is a this is a
giant game. Um but but um uh we're we're
working into an industry, you know,
Mike, that that you know, the the uh the
intelligence industry will likely be
measured in trillions of dollars. And so
that the amount of investment that we're
making is is warranted for the the
opportunities ahead.
So, we've all had a chance to read about
potential restrictions on where you're
going to be able to sell your
chips. Uh there's pros and cons that
people put forth in this
debate. Lay out the issues as you see
them.
um Nvidia's technology um oftentimes
described as a national treasure and um
uh the technology obviously uh is
important to this new industry called
artificial intelligence and so uh one
extreme uh in one side we want to we
want to make sure that this technology
is available only to uh the friends of
friends of our nation uh we want to
ensure we want to ensure sure that that
um uh access of this technology doesn't
fall into the hands of people who might
use it for military reasons. And and so
those are those are the arguments uh for
limiting the access for economic
reasons, for national security reasons.
And and um uh the the fallacy the
fallacy of that is is uh uh no
government especially the government of
of of uh our adversaries are limited by
uh the available capacity of computing
in their country for their military
reasons. uh our country is not no
countries are if uh they they need it
for military advance um they'll just
secure whatever computing resources that
they already have and uh there are
millions and millions of NVIDIA chips in
in just about every country already and
so so it's it's not going to limit um
shipping additional GPUs Nvidia
technology into into uh whatever country
is not going to limit uh their military.
I think the the the reason why uh the
pro the the reason for um leaning into
uh uh the export of this technology is
we want to build the world's AI uh
whereas whereas American standards are
being adopted around the world the
ecosystem of artificial intelligence
will build on on top of our standard
versus somebody else's standard and we
are not alone you know Nvidia of course
is the world leader Okay. Um, but in our
absence, if we don't serve a particular
market, if we leave a market altogether,
uh, there's no question somebody else
would step in. Huawei, for example, is
very formidable, one of the most
formidable technology companies in the
world. They'll step in. And so, so the
the reason why, uh, it would make sense
is to to win in the marketplace. uh make
the American standard uh the global
standard have AI be built on top of
American technology and and of course
very importantly it's a giant market you
know when we were uh limited to ship to
China uh the Chinese market in a couple
years is probably about $50 billion uh
the the market we've left behind is
utterly gigantic $50 billion just so you
so you have a feeling for that number
$50 billion is like Boeing not a plane
the entire our company and so so um uh
that's the that's the business
opportunity that I think we could we
could enjoy uh bring back tax dollars uh
create jobs uh advance uh advance our
technology e even further well also your
interaction with the customer you're
missing that chance to learn from that
interaction from the customer the most
important thing for any business is the
interaction with the customer and what
have what have your customer what have
you learned from your customers over the
last few years and their demand for one
their demand for chips but their use of
chips and how is that feedback to you
and Nvidia? Well, we work with just
about every AI developer in the world
and and
um we learn everything from uh how our
architecture how the the the nature of
our technology is used is optimal or not
optimal for the future of AI. And so uh
when we understand what an AI researcher
would like to do with um uh for example
um the the AI model for a for a virtual
cell you know we we've now uh made very
good progress with virtual proteins and
so now we're working on virtual cells
and if we can understand how cells uh
interact and how how its pathways um uh
can be expressed uh and uh understand
basically the meaning of cells and and
its dynamics
we could do that with AI. So that AI
model is very different than AI model
for large language models and so
understanding how people want to use
that helps us change our architecture in
the future to be better suitable. So as
I mentioned you Jensen you know many
years ago I went to IBM and tried to
convince them at what they called their
super chip at the time that we should
use it for medical
research. And then they wrote me a Dear
John letter. Thanks Mike. great
presentation, but we're going with video
games. So, where where does the demand
you see in the future? Is it is is
certain industries going to play a
larger role such like bioscience and
what you could do in that area? Um where
do you see the demand from different
industries? Well, if you look at where
AI is today, as large as Nvidia has been
already and as large as the AI industry
is already, we're serving basically the
consumer internet market. If you just
kind of take a step take a step back for
a second, that's the entire that's the
only tiny little sliver of the global
economy that we're serving. Uh above
this are uh healthc care industries uh
life sciences uh manufacturing the act
the actual manufacturing in the future
the factory will be one gigantic robot
orchestrating a whole bunch of robots
inside working with people to build
products that are robotics. So you have
robots building robots building robots
and this nested layer of technology uh
is nearly upon us and so that in that
application for manufacturing
industrialization
um plants and factories and that entire
area needs this new AI called physical
AI. If we if we can solve that we're
talking about trillions and trillions of
dollars of industries. So last question,
we might have a lot of people after
listening thinking, how do I get a job
at
Nvidia?
Okay. What are the skill sets you're
looking for today? You have in high
Well, if you can't design a
chip, if you tell me if you tell me that
you you learn how to design chips on
YouTube, I think that's going to that's
going to tell me a lot. And so, no, no,
I look, you know, we're we're um Nvidia
is a is is a is the world's first chip
company. Um, of course that we, as I
mentioned, we building the entire AR
infrastructure stack, but we have we
have uh uh we have uh digital
biologists, we have quantum chemists, uh
we have computer graphics engineers, we
have roboticists, we have uh language
experts. Um we have we have expertise
across a very large domain of science
and we have a very large domain of
industries and so uh you know we serve
healthc care industry we serve financial
services industry. So if you have domain
expertise, we love that. We love people
with domain expertise. And so um we also
love people with general b general basic
intelligence. And if you love hard work
and especially if you love to suffer uh
you know you know you know exactly who
to call
you know we have seen over the years
that those I don't know if my my
microphone is working or not here.
Uh can you hear me?
We have a famous professor, a friend of
mine tells me when he gets a new class,
he tries to figure
out who got in because of their ability
and who got in because of their family
relationships. And that is There we go.
Okay. So I was
saying when you talk about what built
Nvidia, hard work, a lot of challenges,
tough days. I was saying this professor
friend of mine points out that he tries
to figure out when the class comes in
who got in on their ability and who got
in because of
relationships. That's easy. He tells me
within a week. What's harder is how long
will it be before the person that got in
on the relationships is working for the
person with ability. That takes a long
time. He needs to get to know the
students. Those hard days have paid off
and we look forward to see when you can
accomplish in the future. Thank you for
joining. Thank you very much, Mike.
