What are some of the factors that
contributed to Bluepool Capital setting
up shop in Hong Kong? Uh Hong Kong has a
low tax rate. It's simple. There's no
sales tax, no VAT, no investment
withholding tax, no capital gains, no
estate tax, no wind
t, no tax on dividends or interest from
savings. Uh this competitive tax regime
is definitely a plus for Hong Kong.
Yeah. No, look, um, you know, thanks for
asking the question. Bluepool's based in
Hong Kong. Uh, I run the family office
for Jotai. Um, you know, I had come out
here a long time ago, uh, working in
private equity. Goodwin and I were both,
he was doing real estate stuff. I was
doing PE stuff and kind of, um, you
know, ended up working on the original
Alibaba deals, worked with with Joe for
a long time. And when we're thinking
about where to set up, um, it seemed
like the perfect place because we're an
investment business. We do invest here,
but we invest a lot overseas to achieve
some diversification. Uh and this is
just a great pool for talent. Um our
analysts, associates, managing
directors, this is where they want to
live. Um for all the reasons we've
talked about. So um we're u we're in
Cosway Bay and uh we have no plans to
move. So Goodwin, tax concessionary and
exemption schemes have been granted for
market participants like hedge funds and
PE funds set up locally here. What does
Hong Kong's regulatory environment and
the tax environment play in your setup
here? Well, as I mentioned, as I briefly
touched on earlier, right, Hong Kong is
a tax haven. You mentioned all the all
the reasons why Hong Kong is a tax haven
on parallel to Monte Carlo and uh Dubai.
But what Hong Kong has in addition to
any of those, even Singapore is actually
uh it's a money center. And when it's a
money center, you do get access to the
most sophisticated investment banks, uh,
private banks, advisors, and also large
IPO offerings, large bond offerings.
It's all here. And if there's any doubt
about China increasingly or still see
Hong Kong as a laboratory, one country,
two system, look no further than crypto,
right? the fact that Dubai obviously is
open is very open about telling the
crypto investors and the crypto family
crypto-based family office to go to
Dubai. Hong Kong is doing exactly the
same thing even though China on the
other side is it's against crypto and
against blockchain for the time being
right. So that's a testament to as a
fact to say Hong Kong is definitely one
country two system and we have seen
actually with the recent Hong Kong
government drive quite a few very
significant crypto family office are
actually relocating from Dubai or
consolidating from Zurich to actually
into Hong Kong sizable ones and I think
you read about that in the next six to
nine months and we only have time now
for some final thoughts and I want to
ask you both um to wrap up here what are
the biggest challenges challenges
operating in Hong Kong, be it regulatory
or
geopolitical, give us something to, you
know, think about as we leave
late force
perception, right? And I mean I I think
if you come to Hong Kong, you see the
meetings you get, the people you meet
who is based in Hong Kong, the amount of
business you can do in one to two days
and buy some art and maybe apartment on
the side.
Um there's a lot going forward. If you
see it for yourself, it's it's hard to
then then you realize how the the
deception uh you might be reading in the
western media. Oie. Yeah. No, I think
Goodwin and I globe trot a lot. We both
travel a lot. Uh, and we're in rooms
like this, at conferences like this. And
I think as Goodwin said, false
perception is is is a challenge. We're
excited to take that challenge. Uh, the
more conferences, the more weeks like
this, it'll be in the rearview mirror.
And so, I think that burdens on all of
us. I think for folks in the office that
are here from overseas I'm around. I
love Hong Kong. If you're thinking about
opening a family office or a business,
come talk to the two of us. We've both
chosen this place uh for all the reasons
we talked about. But uh let's have a
great week. Thank you to you both.
Ladies and gentlemen, please help me to
thank Goodwin Gaul and Olly Weiss for
and hopefully it gave you something to
think about. Is Hong Kong back? Thank
you very much.
