Well, Jean, I I thought we would start a
little bit with why is TPA caught
wildfire? Maybe a little bit of a a take
on why this has just reached a fever
pitch in my views and particularly, I
would say, in the last year. It's been
building. Ka's been focused on this for
longer than that, as I'm sure you have,
too. But has it been some combination of
market conditions, the state of the
world, investment options? What has
caused this to kind of continue to
evolve in its uh top of- mind
perspective?
>> John, thank you for for having me. Happy
to happy to go back and forth with you
on TPA. It's a subject that's near and
dear to my heart. I've been thinking
about it and writing about it for a
while now, as you know.
And and I think that what's what's been
going on over the last couple years is
that several existing strands have been
woven together in a much more coherent
investment and government framework.
But I want to point out that you know
these strands are not new. uh when I
think through GPA, when I think about
the way that it comes together, the
holistic approach, the focus on
liability and objectives, risk factors
is a common language, right? Alignment
in terms of org design, competition for
capital and the opportunity cost of
every investment. When you stand these
things on their own, they're not new,
right? These ingredients have been
around for a long time. I started my my
career in the early 2000s. LBI,
liabilitydriven investing for corporate
plans was just coming to these shores
from the UK. And that focus on the whole
portfolio, assets and liabilities
together, surplus optimization, risk
factors to define the liability and the
return seeking portfolio, right? These
things again are not are not new.
I think another contributing factor
though that that may be a little bit
newish is the availability and the power
of risk systems that sit on the desktops
of asset owners. Right? Increasingly in
the conversations that I'm having
globally with with asset owners, the the
dashboards and the depth to which they
very deeply understand their their
investments has been frankly surprising
and welcoming. And I think that that's
because there are great tools available
from thirdparty providers, from other
asset managers that just provide a lot
more clarity on what's going on in the
portfolio. And once you have that sort
of clarity is kind of ask yourself like
why am I just using this for backwards
looking attribution? I want to be using
this for forward-looking portfolio
construction. And I think that's where
that's where TPA provides a really nice
nice on-ramp there. Uh a couple of other
thoughts on you know why is this popular
and why is it popular right now? How is
it becoming more popular now is that
when I think through strategic asset
allocation and and I have I have a lot
of lot of thoughts on on SAA most of
them are orthodox but not not all of
them. When I think about the evolution
of SAA over the last, let's say, 70
years, what I've observed is a real
overspecification
in the way that portfolios are put
together and in potentially what
constitutes an asset class or what
people think an asset class is. And as
you get to this point where you have so
many different slivers of the pie chart
and SAA and you have these overly
specified highly highly correlated
pieces of the portfolio some point you
take a step back and you ask yourself
what's the common thread across these
what what is the common factor exposure
and there's a pretty short I think
there's a short gap small gap from that
mindset to like wait a second there is a
more holistic way to think about the
entire portfolio once I've got this
understanding and these tools and I can
see some of the friction uh that is uh
that is being provided by today's more
traditional SAA framework. So I I'd love
the chance to to talk about some of
these more significant issues in turn
and I'm sure that we'll get there in the
conversation. But again, it seems like
there's there's a lot of things coming
together uh for the why right now
moment.
I like the way you put it, you know,
perhaps slightly um paraphrasing the
idea that the apparatus, the tool set
has caught up with the worldview a bit
and that's perhaps created this perfect
storm of adoption and of interest. You
also talked about this tension of uh
some of this stuff having been around a
long time, but but perhaps it's it's
reached this point where it's coming
together in new ways. And I I'd like to
press Gan on that a little bit because
there are some skeptics out there that
simply say things like this is just new
jargon, new words, a new layer of
platitudes for all the stuff we've been
doing and I've been preaching for so
long. But I think there are actually
some impactful differences either
because you're putting all these things
together or perhaps you're evolving well
past that into a new model. Can you try
to pinpoint kind of the the crucible key
elements that are truly different than
SAA?
>> Yeah. So, I think that there's there's a
couple a couple things that we really do
need to focus on that makes TPA
different in kind, not different in
degree from SAA. But I'm also going to
point out that there's somewhat of a
continuum uh between SA and TPA. And so
I'm going to play both sides of this and
you can you can tell me what resonates
with you. I think the single biggest
difference between a TPA type approach
and an SAA approach is the governance
dimension. Full stop. Right? SAA
strategic asset allocation at its heart.
It's an investment only construct.
Right? It's got a through line from
Marowitz's MPT and Sharps CAPM straight
to what we're doing today. it's
investment only and for many investors
it's asset only. So the the connection
with the objective or the liability is
more of an abstraction rather than a
very very strong mechanical linkage. So
I think that that's a that's a super
important concept to recognize that when
we talk about strategic asset allocation
classically it's really an investment
only approach because that's what
investment teams have control over and
for many it's asset only. My my read is
that TPA combines organizational design
and the thoughtful allocation of
decision rights. And by doing those two
things, it much more clearly defines
what does success look like at the top
level. Right? Success is not necessarily
just beating a benchmark or having a
particular asset class sleeve
outperformance against its rolled up
benchmark or even delivering a certain
total return to the portfolio. Right?
Success may mean we are able to fund
retirements for our participants. We are
able to send our children to college. We
are able to, you know, buy that vacation
home if that's your that's your hope and
dream. in your objective for your
personal portfolio. Right? So the
linkage the more concrete linkage of
those two things is is crucial and I
think that that's where TPA differs.
It's much more allencompassing.
Now
we can talk about multiple objectives
that can be put into TPA I think a lot
more easily than strategic asset
allocation. That's that's another area
that maybe isn't the number one or
number two or number three, but it's
certainly an area of difference that TPA
explicitly accounts for having multiple
objective functions. And this is
something that may be beyond the scope
technically of what we're talking about,
but if we have time to get into it, I
would love to later on. Traditionally,
strategic asset allocation collapses the
investment problem down into how do I
get the most return for a given level of
risk
that ignores how much liquidity you
need, what sort of inflation exposure
you want, how complex the vehicles are,
and potentially what the opportunity set
is. And there's lots of other things
that we can add on to that.
In in TPA, there is the ability to to
again to explicitly have those multiple
objectives as part of the why are we
here and why are we doing it.
Historically, those other objectives,
the secondary and the tertiary
objectives have been bolted on to
strategic asset allocation either
through the use of constraints or by
defining things upstream before you even
get to any sort of risk return trade-off
or optimization model. So that's that's
another kind of critical but not the
most critical area. And I do want to
point out here that I I don't view TPA
and SAA as being in opposition to each
other. There's not this like
antagonistic relationship between them.
Just like active and passive are on a
continuum. Public assets and private
assets are on a continuum. I think the
TPA and SAA can be on a continuum as
well.
And let me let me kind of bring this
point home. So for over a decade, I've
been I've been arguing and telling
anybody that would listen that I believe
strategic asset allocation should
utilize and emphasize super asset
classes. Right? And by super asset
classes, I mean a very broad spectrum
definition of what an asset class is.
All global public companies, all global
public fixed income, some of your
privates and your real assets, a handful
of things that you then very clearly
define what your view for the future of
these is in terms of risk and return and
correlation and other objectives and you
put that together into an optimization
framework that actually works. That's
really similar to TPA, right? And it's
not that big of a of a leap to say if
you have a very simple superass asset
class strategic asset allocation
framework that looks and smells and
tastes a lot like a reference portfolio,
right? Whether that reference portfolio
is defined in terms of asset classes or
factors. So that's that I think that
that is a point of tangency between a
TPN approach and an SA approach. you can
sort of extend SAH. You get almost to
the border of a TP approach in terms of
the investment piece, but you're still
missing the governance piece.
>> Yeah, I think that's so well said
because I I've heard it I've heard it
say similarly, Gan, that TPA is a fund
model and SAA is an investment model.
So, by definition, it's it's
encapsulating a broader set of features.
You mentioned org design and separation
of responsibilities and and all these
cultural and governance implications
that that SAA, no offense to it, was
never designed to opine on or speak to,
right? Um, so with that in mind, from
investment model to fund model, if you
like that comparison, uh, if that's at
least in the right zip code, let's talk
a little bit about the implications for
an investment manager, an asset manager,
a GP, because I think a lot of at least
Kaia's work has been on the asset owner
models and journey and resistance
overcoming uh, you know, some of the
changes. Um, you said it well. This is
about exposures and solutioning versus
products fitting in buckets uh like SAA
somewhat requires or at least um
encourages.
When you think about engaging with a uh
TPA shop on an asset owner side, what
does that mean as far as your language,
your approach, how you measure success,
the benchmarking given that they are now
asking expecting a very different
dynamic with you than an SAA shop?
>> Yeah. No. So this this question has
literally consumed my entire career in
asset management is how to help clients
solve problems and defined things not in
terms of like products and building
blocks and exposures but actually
getting to the like what is keeping them
up at night, what are they trying to
solve, answering the right question
sometimes versus the question that's on
the table. So I I've had the luxury of
always being part of solutions
organizations. Uh my first job after
business school, I came back to
Barclay's global investors. I was part
of what I think is was one of the first
solutions organizations in in a in an
asset manager. I learned a lot there. Um
and really this uh solutions mindset I
became very immersed in it, very steeped
in it. And so I've I've carried that
lens with me throughout my career. And
there's such a sharp contrast between
being an armslength transactional parts
provider for an asset owner versus a a
strategic partner that requires
consultative engagement and a much
deeper awareness of what's going on. And
I want to break this down into a couple
of different points here.
You and I have probably observed very,
very skillful, focused asset managers
with strong track records in their areas
that are myopically focused on what they
do really well, but have very little
context or awareness for the big picture
problem that the asset owner is trying
to solve. They may be an amazing, let's
use an example here, US equity deep
value shop or a private equity firm
focusing on venture. They may be great
at what they do and when they talk to an
asset owner they they use the kind the
contextual language of what they do and
hope that that resonates with somebody
across the table that is equally skilled
in speaking that language and can then
take that and translate it to what does
this mean for the whole portfolio.
I think that as as TPA gains more
adherence, and by the way, even if it
doesn't, even if so many asset owners
don't get to the promised land of TPA,
but they're thinking in more of this
kind of solutions mindset, what you're
going to find is a greater awareness is
required for what the asset owner is
actually trying to do. Are they trying
to be more liability driven? Do they
have inflation exposure that they're
seeking that they might not be getting?
Are they looking for more
diversification within their manager
sleeves to help them in a different part
of the portfolio that you have no
visibility into at all? Right? It's
being able to to really think at a
different altitude. It's not where do
you fit in in the asset class sleeve
that you happen to play in. speaking
with maybe the investment staff that are
again very skilled at underwriting those
types of managers. It's taking a step
back and almost asking yourself if I
were the CIO for this asset owner, what
am I worried about and how do I move the
needle with the capabilities that I the
asset manager have at my disposal
internally? How do I marshall those
capabilities in a way that actually
helps the asset owner accomplish what
they need? So emphasis on on awareness
and there there's a couple of other
points I' I'd love to make too on that.
So being able to understand how your
investment organization and your
investment results are viewed by the
asset owner is crucial. I've seen this
in multiple organizations that I've been
a part of and I've underwritten managers
when I was on the consulting side as
well that the way that you view what you
bring to the table and what your results
are aren't necessarily the same way that
the asset owner views them and and we
talked about this earlier with risk
systems, right? If an asset owner has a
sophisticated risk system or if they
have a gatekeeper or a consultant that
can help them with that, they will be
evaluating you and your strategies in
ways that perhaps you're not looking at
at at them the same way internally. And
so bridging that gap, I think, is really
important. Having the the awareness,
understanding how am I being evaluated?
What does success mean, right? From the
asset owner's perspective versus from
your your perspective. And I I think
that an emphasis on on risk and on risk
factors are really really important.
I've seen this uh through the lens of
quantitative managers that have that in
their DNA. They're pretty good at being
able to express that to the market. For
other more traditional asset managers
and those that deal in asset classes
that don't really lend themselves to
quantitative approach, that's not an
excuse. you you need to be able to
understand what are the risk factor
exposures of your strategy. What sort of
exposures do you bring to the asset
owner portfolio? So there's really this
multi-dimensional
understanding of as the asset owner I'm
assembling a collection of strategies.
They need to be they need to be
coherent. How can I help in that
coherence? So again first understanding
what the asset owner's problem are that
this is not a product pitch. This is not
a transactional relationship. and then
being able to understand how you really
fit in. And I've observed that there's
been a longunning convergence from
trying to be a parts provider to trying
to be a partner. Uh that this is
something that's been going on for my my
entire career. Uh I don't think that
we're all there yet, but we're certainly
moving in that direction. But being able
to zoom out and ask yourself, what am I
solving for? you know, how do I how do I
go beyond just filling a perceived gap
in the portfolio? And and I think that
it's it's honestly it's really hard to
reposition. This takes this takes
effort. It takes work. It takes
resources. Uh it's a it's a different
mindset for asset managers that need to
be able to flow into what the asset
owner is doing and the framework that
they're working in. I I love this uh
transition and journey from parts
provider to partner that you've that
you've talked about. Um I think the
industry unfortunately throws around the
word partner too much because the
partnership you're talking about capital
P is much wider than I think most GPS
think about. Most LPS for that matter
think about. It includes intangible
things. It includes consulting. It
includes um uh you know partnership in
areas beyond just providing returns and
the way you think about success
measurement etc as you as you allowed
for. It also has other implications
though that may not be so rosy and these
are the trade-offs of being more bespoke
and customized and at your service Gene
and so I'm curious maybe just bringing
to life how you've thought about that at
Capital Group your talent your dynamic
approach to the customer how you think
about the trade-offs between scale and
customization given that the ladder in a
TPA model maybe has more pressure on you
so how have you evolved the system and
yet still remained economically kind of
efficient.
>> Look, my my focus is
very at scale and oftentimes
sophisticated asset owners, right? So
those types of asset owners, they have
always demanded solutions that combine
the underlying capabilities of the
active manager that aren't necessarily
those offtheshelf parts. So I feel like
that part of the market that's already
at scale,
this is not a new demand. Uh this is not
something that's been asked of us
recently because of TPA. This has been a
long
running theme. And obviously for atcale
asset owners, customization is is
absolutely key. So the scale argument
here isn't necessarily being able to do
the same thing over and over and over
again for these larger organizations.
It's being able to find the right
mindset and find the right approach to
scale the the solutioning, if you will.
I really hate making verbs out of
things. Uh but I've heard solutioning
before. I'm going to repeat it here and
hopefully not not have to say it again.
Uh, but being being able to to do that
piece of it at scale, I feel like that's
the real challenge rather than being
able to turn the crank and deliver the
same types of parts providers to other
other elements of the market. So my
team, the institutional solutions team,
we we provide sufficient scale in those
mandates to make customization feasible
in most instances because again we're
we're talking about very very scalable
asks of us. And we we've already talked
about the partnership mindset a little
bit. Our aim, Capital Group's aim is to
be the partner of choice for our
institutional clients, right? So, we're
focusing obviously on the investing
piece, but on matching all the
capabilities with the capital group to
those specific needs and I think you
alluded to this a little bit before,
providing value beyond investments,
right? That's I think the true test of a
partnership rather than just an
off-the-shelf pre-wrapped package that
may or may not fit into what the asset
owner is looking for. Um the value
beyond investment piece is is
interesting and if you want to we can we
can certainly talk a bit more about
that. There's a lot that's contained in
there that plays into the consultative
strategic partnership that is probably
going to be required moving forward.
Well, Gene, you you talked a little bit
about the um the reality that TPA is not
myopically focused on benchmarks or
microasset class bogeies any longer.
Again, you're not selling parts or
products. You're selling solutions um
and a relationship. Uh but I'm going to
ask you to benchmark uh an LPGP
relationship five years from now because
by definition everything we've been
talking about requires a very different
approach that you just alluded to from
the cap group perspective. But I I I'd
like you maybe to widen that aperture a
little bit if you don't mind as we close
here and tell us a little bit about what
will define a successful
GP and how they engage with uh and
approach and service tomorrow's TPA LP.
>> The the onus is not just on the asset
owner and not just on the asset manager
to use your parlance the GP and the LP.
the onus is shared across them. And I
think that if I could pick one word to
describe what is going to define these
relationships going forward, it's really
clarity. The asset owner or GP having
clarity about what they need and what
they want and the asset manager or LP
having the clarity to understand what
they bring to the table and how they fit
in and how they deliver. Right? So the
overall construct I think is going to be
fewer but deeper relationships, right?
It takes relationships take time and
effort uh and they involve people and
not just numbers, right? So there's
there's elements of that too as well.
Asset owners have a finite amount of
resources whether you're talking about
time or staff or being able to tolerate
headache. So having these fewer but very
deep relationships with asset managers
that have clarity around what success
actually means. I also believe that
increasingly flexible mandates that span
regions, sectors and these other silo
walls that a TPA or an enlightened SAA
approach hopes to break down. That
flexibility is going to be really
important and brings you away from some
of that microbenchmarking that you were
talking about earlier. I think that even
more consultative engagements, right,
with meaningful knowledge sharing and
sometimes knowledge transfer as well,
it's going to be it's going to be huge.
And maybe to to cap all of that off, if
you think about the comparative
advantages for the asset owner, for the
GP versus comparative advantages for the
asset manager, the LP, right? If is as
you think about sort of what what that
looks like,
it seems like the asset manager who's in
the flow, who's thinking through all all
of these different aspects of their
investment program, they would have a
lot to add at a higher altitude for the
asset manager. um sorry for the asset
owner that is thinking at a much higher
altitude about how does this connect to
my objectives and am I meeting all of
these obligations? How am I structuring
this portfolio? So thinking about who
brings what to the table and and how
they could potentially come together and
really play well There are
