Hello everyone and welcome to the
sustainability story podcast. On this
episode, we explore critical
sustainability issues and global trends
shaping our industry. I'm Nicole
Garrick, director of global industry
standards at CFA Institute and one of
three co-hosts. Today's episode will
zero in on the topic that's set to
impact asset managers across Europe and
beyond, and that's the proposed changes
to the EU's sustainable finance
disclosure regulation or SFDR. Joining
me today is Simone Ruez Burgot, head of
sustainable finance policy research at
MSCI issue research. Simone leads
research and methodology development at
Msei, empowering clients to navigate
sustainable finance and climate related
regulations. With two decades of
experience in sustainable finance and
climate strategy, spanning both private
and public sectors, Simone brings a
wealth of experience to our
conversation. So Simone, thank you so
much for being here and I look forward
to our discussion.
>> It's a pleasure, Nicole. Thanks for
having me.
>> Yes, thank you. To get us started, I'd
love to hear more about your personal
sustainability story. So, can you share
with our audience how you first became
interested in sustainable finance and
what inspired you to focus on EU policy
research? Yes. So, I was born in a small
town, university town in Germany in
Fryberg in the Black Forest. And the one
particular feature of this town is that
it has more bikes, bicycles than it has
inhabitants.
And it's also the cradle of the solar
industry. So with that background and
with two parents being both biologists,
I was quite sensitive to the topic of
planetary boundaries and related
environmental challenges. But I also
felt a need to earn a living. So I
decided to become an economist, trained
as an economist and then I moved over to
work in Brussels at the EU Commission
for an internship and followed by some
say at the ECB, the European Central
Bank before I went back in fact to
Brussels to work on carbon market
topics. And it just fascinated me to
have this sort of public policy steering
based and the market-based instrument
with that emissions trading and to see
the change this can have. And that's
where it started off really with my
passion for green finance,
sustainability and then five years ago I
joined MCI in this role.
>> Great. Thank you so much for sharing
your uh journey into sustainable finance
and it's inspiring to see how your
parents really uh shaped your thinking
in and environmental challenges growing
up and you were able to develop a career
really marrying your economics
background as well as with your
environmental interests. So it's very
inspiring.
So now let's turn to our main topic, the
sustainable finance disclosure
regulation or as I mentioned SFDR, which
we will be calling it throughout this
podcast. And so for our listeners that
may not be familiar with SFDR, it's been
in effect in the EU since 2021. And it
requires investment products to
communicate how sustainability risks,
sustainability objectives and
characteristics and adverse impacts are
addressed. And the intent was really to
increase transparency
and allow investors to better compare
products. However, even though the EU
legislators did not really set out to
create a formal fund classification
system, the rules led to this de facto
classification system where products
became known uh as article 8 or article
9 labels. And so this has resulted in
really some significant complexity,
confusion, and different interpretation
issues among retail investors.
And so Simone, we have this new proposal
that was introduced in November, and it
really aims to address some of these
challenges by really clarifying product
categories and minimum standards. And
drawing on your experiences with in
asset management and sustainability data
and the engagements that you've had with
EU regulators, what do you see as the
core issues the commission is trying to
solve for with SFDR 2.0 and where do you
think uh if anywhere um do they accept
any trade-offs or imperfections to get
there? [snorts]
>> Yes, thank you. I I guess most of the
market was waiting for this proposal
since since a while. Um it's also
typical in an EU context of legislation
and and law making that you have every
few years a revision to the mother
legislation to keep a breast with recent
developments with market with changes in
the market. We have seen the UK come
forward with labels and the EU
essentially has started with a
disclosure regime which has quickly
moved into as you described it a
labeling quasi labeling regime. And so I
think since I took over about four years
ago on this topic really on SFDR and the
principal adverse impact indicators
which is data points we offer to assess
how sustainable investments fare on a
range of harm indicators that has
quickly become clear that we we um might
might see some change. So the whole last
year we were already engaging with the
regulators. There was a consultation and
then when the proposal came out um there
was even a leaked version and then the
proposal came and it was a quite a
change to the leaked version. So there
was a lot of commotion last year and I
think the market has now had some time
to assess the proposal and also the
responses that I've seen from our
clients has been rather positive on
where you know we might have seen some
challenges in understanding what
different products mean very broad
classification between the article 8 and
nine and overall spanning over 50% of
the market so quite a success in terms
of capturing a large market share for
the sort of sustainable or
environmentally minded products. You can
you can think of this as a real success.
It's the it's a leading market globally
for sustainability products. But then is
it so clear what a sustainable product
is? And I think this is where this whole
initiative is now looking at can we
provide more clarity, more comparability
across different products. And so this
is the the main aim is really improving
usability, comparability and then also
the credibility of of sustainable
investments. So you could see that there
is the strong market demand for more
well-defined categories of sustainable
investment products and this is now
being served by this this proposal. It's
a proposal. It could still change quite
dramatically. We'll have to see how it
plays out in the negotiation between the
different EU institutions, council,
parliament and commission. But I I think
what is now more or less the market
expectation is that a formalization of
these labels would help direct capital
flows um increase transparency and then
also strengthen investor confidence in
this market.
>> Great. Thank you for the clarification
on that. So when we think about the
shift from article 8 and article 9
labels toward clearer product categories
defined in this, can you provide uh what
you see as the most significant
implications of this move and which
aspects might still need further
clarification from the regulators? Yes.
So I think an an aspect that was coming
on repeatedly put forward is that there
is a lot of complexity on the disclosure
side. So one one thing is the labels but
another thing is the disclosures and how
they were implemented. We had both
entity level reports. So where you had
to actually report across all your
assets at firm level that was not easy
to do. It was not always clear how to do
it and then there were data issues. So
altogether there was a lot of emphasis
from the market to revise and simplify
reporting requirements and that is
something they are doing here now. So
first they replace the article 8 and
nine categories with three new
sustainability related categories.
Second, they simplify reporting
obligations by removing the entity level
report, but also supposedly
in the future with the delegated act
that is still expected next year, they
would also much simplify the product
level reports. And then thirdly, there's
also some alignment with existing
regulation such as the corporate
sustainability reporting directive and
the related standards, but also the EU
taxonomy and then the ESMA which is a
regulatory authority fund name
guidelines which were coming in last
year and sitting on top of the SFDR
requirements requiring certain
exclusions of certain activities based
on the name of a fund and and so these
are the different elements of the
proposal but I think overall the that's
really an aim to to simplify clarify and
then also align more closely with other
regulation which makes sense because
SFDR was one of the first regulations of
the entire package that was part of the
EU green action plan in 2018 and the
other pieces came later and so there is
a need to readjust realign
with what has happened in the last years
in these other related disclosure and
classification regimes.
>> So I know you spoke to the aligning with
the other EU policies such as CSD and
CSRD and ESMA's guidelines. What about
interoperability between other global
product categorizations such as the SDR
or other global proposals that are on
the table in other jurisdictions? Do we
see interoperability among those as
well?
>> Yeah, I think there is an a clear
understanding also emphasized by the
many consultations we we have had and
where I think most of the market has
just said don't make it too different
from each other. We have CSRD. We have
the ISSB standards. We have different
markets with different sustainable
finance disclosure and categorization
regimes. The UK was interesting because
it basically introduced first the labels
then the disclosures while the EU did
exactly the opposite. Um Australia has
just consulted last year on a on a
similar categorization. And what you can
see emerge from all these is that you
have very similar building blocks. And I
think this is a clear there's a clear
understanding that there needs to be
some common ground to allow for a
product to be cross marketed in
different markets but also to be not
seeing hurdles add it. You'll always see
differences in the implementation but
from what is emerging is that there are
these three building blocks. One is a
sustainability category which comes with
certain minimum percentage thresholds
for what should be what should be
covered from from a portfolio fund. in
the EU is 70%, I think in the UK it's
slightly higher but it's all in that
category of twothird of the product
should follow the same criteria. Then
you have another category which is a
transition category which makes a lot of
sense if we think about certain sectors
that are just emission heavy and that
need to transit out of the their current
business model into lower carbon or
lower emitting activities. that is then
a transition category which comes with
credible transition targets,
science-based pathways etc. So there are
measures to allow you as a investor to
assess whether or not the p path that
the company's on is actually making
sense and sufficiently ambitious. And
the third category is uh related to ESG.
Again it's a bit differently formulated
in each markets. In the EU they call it
ESG basics. can also think of ESG
integration where you essentially focus
on financially relevant sustainability
risks that are um typically expressed by
you still keep your you still keep an
exposure to all the sectors in the
market but you choose the best
performers on a variety of metrics
related to environment social and
governance indicators and then I think
there is an additional category which
was also added here which sort of sits
across all the others or at least across
sustainability and transition in the EU
that's the impact category which allows
impact products to differentiate
themselves from the rest of the market
by coming forward with theory of change,
intentionality and measurable progress.
And so all in all, I think this is
building blocks we're seeing in each
market. Then when it comes to the
implementation, do you have to apply for
your label or is it a default label and
you basically have to just disclose what
you do or is it in other markets it
might be that the hurdle is higher
because the regulator has more
restrictive understanding while the
rules are principal based which we have
seen in the UK where everybody thought
it's actually easy and it wasn't and
then in other markets the regime is too
new or not yet implemented so it's too
early to tell which is it's I think the
case in in Australia for instance
But what we're seeing is that everywhere
countries are all the jurisdictions in
the world are somehow working on
something that is similar to what the EU
has started to put in place a few years
back. And I think this is interesting as
the EU is a little bit hesitating on the
way forward. Should we include more
companies or fewer companies? Do we do
too much? Do we need to do more burden
reduction? I think it's interesting to
see that other jurisdictions are copying
the EU's base rules and making their own
rules out of it. sometimes much more
market oriented and practiceoriented and
the EU again now in these revisions can
copy some of the improvements that we
have seen in other markets which I think
they are doing right now looking very
closely especially at what's happening
in the UK.
>> Yeah. No, I I agree with you and that
interoperability among the different
jurisdictions is very important
especially for asset managers, global
asset managers that are creating
products and designing strategies that
they're going to cross market to
different jurisdictions and um and it's
good to see that the revised SFDR has
looked into you know what SRD in the UK
has put forth and others to help shape
the new guidance and um you know rules.
for their product classification.
>> So just one additional thought I I think
that there is clearly a a bit of maybe a
tension to the regulator needs to
address and that is the one between
rigor and ambition and sort of telling
the market what sustainability really
means from their angle to make it easier
maybe on the supervisory side to do the
checks. Is it implemented in the right
way? Is it what we expect? Does it meet
consumer needs and expectations towards
do you want this to remain a broad
market that can accommodate accommodate
different strategies or do you want this
to become a very niche market that is
super green but maybe only meets the
needs of a very small subset of clients
and that is the the dichotomy the
tension that every policy maker every
market will have and needs to navigate.
uh maybe half of the fund uh universe in
the EU is now coal sustainable and that
might decrease with the new categories
as they increase robustness of the
categories but I think we also don't
want to end up in a market where we have
just the assets that are covered by the
current EU taxonomy which is much
smaller subset covered so there is this
sort of you want it to be right but you
don't want it to be zero
>> exactly
>> I think that's that's where everyone has
to has to handle it
>> you raised an important point regarding
funds that won't be categorized if they
lack robustness or ambition to meet the
criteria for the proposed categories.
It's likely many EU sustainable products
will end up in the ESG basic category if
they fail to meet the requirements of
the transition or sustainable categories
such as the 70% threshold for holdings
aligned with transition or
sustainability objectives and the
exclusion criteria. And there's also the
question of how disclosure will appear
for those uncatategories funds, meaning
those that don't fall under the ESU
basics, sustainable or transition
categories.
And ESMA issued guidelines back in May
of 2024 with criteria for funds using
ESG or sustainability related terms in
their names. So it's worth considering
whether this guidance will remain or
will be revised in light of the new SFDR
2.0 proposal.
So how I understand this so I'm a member
of the ESMA working group um on
sustainable finance since since its
inception I think three years ago and
they we had long discussions always on
this topic with um the work the working
group is composed of different members
from academia NOS's but also finance and
data providers and and corporates and in
that group we we have had these
discussions back and forth but I think
an important element now is that most
likely the the SFDR to zero if the
labels are sufficiently robust From a
regulator's perspective, from
supervisor's perspective, the ESMA fund
name rules will be repealed, replaced by
these new rules which are very much
building on the ESMA fund name
configuration. And when we look at how
the ESMA fund name rules which were
introduced last year, came into effect
which were introduced two years ago now
and came into effect um for all existing
products in May last year. So in that
period was about 12 months we have seen
a lot of changes in the fund names
according to our analysis,400
funds have changed the name. ESMA has
just released an analysis of their own
from December that shows that in the
subset they analyzed 4,000 funds.
Twothird changed the name and a half
changed the policy. So kept the name but
changed the policy. Wow.
>> And in fact a lot of the fund names Yes.
It's interesting and and a lot of the
funds that changed the name had already
some fossil fuel exclusions, which is
the most impactful addition from the
fund name guidelines that you had to get
out of the fossil fuel based on certain
revenue thresholds for coal, oil, and
gas. And those that didn't have that had
a relatively high exposure or say a
normal exposure if they track a
benchmark it's just the benchmark sector
weight they were more reluctant to
change policy and were more more likely
to change the name. Now as smart thinks
of this as a success successful strategy
we have also done an analysis at MEI
where we looked at the name changes so
the,400 funds that changed the name and
a lot of them have stick to the exactly
same strategy as they had before. So
they didn't move away from their
sustainability focus or ESG tilt or
whatever they did before. So they kept
the same strategy which means they
didn't withdraw from a sustainability
strategy but they just didn't want to
have that large of a tracking error.
They didn't want to kick out all the
fossil fuel investments. So if you track
a benchmark and you want to make sure
your performance continues to be
accessible compared to that benchmark,
it's not so easy to just go out. And I
think that's an a factor we need to
consider and it will be coming back
because now with the SFDR labels they
choose exactly the same exclusion
categories even adding on top of these
revenue weighted exposures to fossil
fuels plans to expand fossil fuels or
plans to or no no plans to phase out
coal. So there are additional criteria
where the data is not as established as
it is for the fossil fuel revenue
exposure. So we'll really have to see
how this plays out and how much of a you
know how much of a restriction it is
perceived to be by the market. So if at
the end all the products change their
name I don't think you can call it a
success. Ideally they do not change the
name but make their strategies more
robust right. So that should be the
objective I think in the end.
>> Yeah. No thank you for providing that
insight based on your consultation
experience with asthma. So many of our
listeners are keen to learn about the
practical steps for implementation.
So for asset managers preparing for SFDR
2.0,
what should they prioritize over the
next 12 to 18 months to ensure
compliance especially regarding the
substantiation of claims and exclusions,
data quality and product level uh
documentation? And what do you see maybe
as some of the main challenges arising?
Yeah, I think much advice is to not
overdo it in the first months and to
watch a little bit what's unfolding now.
I think it's 12 to 18 months at least.
We would expect this to only enter into
force in 2028. So, we have quite some
time ahead. What definitely makes sense
right now is to emphasize data, good
data. There is clear reference also to
the use of estimates. to assess that you
when you don't have the data make sure
you you have something else in place
cover it no gaps governance robust
governance of the processes traceability
and substantiation because one thing of
the sorry substantiation of the
sustainability claims because I think
one thing is pretty clear even so it
might look to some as a backtracking in
terms of simplification disclosure
reduction burden reduction whatever
policy maybe not being the policy makers
not being super involved or not as pushy
at least on the need to be green or to
greening your investment processes. I
think the supervisors are still
expecting you to walk the talk and and
more so I think the robustness of the
claims and also related disclosures will
be will be even more important going
forward and I wouldn't wait for the
implementation of this change to look at
governance and robustness of claims. I
think this is something you should do
now. So there is this emphasis also on
the disclosure side. you have no entity
level disclosures potentially when this
new rule is in force. However, until
then there is still at least two periods
where we would expect the disclosures to
happen and on the product level there is
going to be more emphasis on saying how
do you do the harm assessment. This was
just a consideration so you had to
consider it but nobody told you you had
to disclose it and few I mean some did
but not all and the disclosures were not
comparable. So the comparability will be
more in front. So you will want to you
will want to be sure you have something
that is stands the test of scrutiny for
both from a supervisor and your
investment community. So your you know
your clients and that is the challenge I
think that's what you what you will have
to focus on. So it's it's really this
wait and see on the one side but make
sure you have your back covered on the
other side.
Yeah, and you made a good point on that
now the entity level PIS are no longer
applicable and it's be more looking at
it from a product standpoint. So I think
that would help with some of the
compliance costs and complexity of a lot
of the data that's needed at that entity
level that maybe wasn't used as much or
as helpful as it would be if it was
looking at it from a product standpoint.
And when it comes to assessing harm, I
think one change we'll see on the
assessing harm is that it will be more
flexible which indicators you use. So
you will probably see a higher reliance
by asset managers on indicatorbased
approaches and that aligns quite well
with the tools and data sets that analy
so data providers have. But at the same
time you'll have the regulator come
forward with a new list of adverse
impact indicators. And so while they
become voluntary to use, you could also
use other suitable indicators. They will
still be sort of a big thing because the
regulator has basically signed them off.
You can be sure if you use them, it's
easier to basically make your your
claim. So I think they will not
disappear, but the list is expected to
become a lot smaller, more focused on
data availability. And I suppose there's
going to be some more consultation,
interaction with the market to see what
what indicators are are best making
sense. And I think given that there is
already an overlap between the adverse
impact indicators and the exclusion
coming from the principle so from the
Paris benchmarks or the PABS notably
when it comes to controversial weapons
when it comes to fossil fuel exposures
there is probably going to be redundancy
that will be removed with the revised
PIS focusing especially on those
indicators that are not covered already
by the PABS that would be my expectation
whether it will play out this way or not
we'll have to see Interestingly, it's
not ESMA who will come forward with the
delegated act or the technical criteria
for assessing sustainability, harm,
transition, impact, etc. But it will be
the commission and we expect that to
happen sometimes next year. Most likely
by the end of the year, we will have a
delegated act that will then allow us
also to start our work on the data
inventory and making sure we have what
is required for asset managers to report
on.
So, one common critique of SFDR is that
it blurred the line between products
with sustainability characteristics and
those that had genuine impact. And uh in
our research that we've done and
guidance that CFNsuit has put forward,
we had two different papers on labeled
how to build a better fund
classification system and our impact
investing guidance for designing listed
equity strategies that generate real
world outcomes. And we we showed that
the regul uh the regulation grouped
products by their sustainability
characteristics
rather than by intentionality and
contribution and impact measurement and
outcomes which really are are
cornerstones for impact investing. So do
you believe that SFDR 2.0 meaningfully
accommodates impact strategies and
creates more of a clearer framework for
impact investing? and what do you think
credible impact would look like under
these new categories?
>> Yes, thanks for that and also sharing
your paper. I think you make some really
important points in there and and one of
course is around the question of
engagement and how how close you get to
the companies you invest in and I think
this is if you ask me what the framework
is for impact investing I would say it's
not really a framework they put forward
here but they leave the door open and
the delegated act will bring the
framework so I think there is a big
relief from the impact investing
community which is is not our typical
clients I have to add but I I I know
that There is a lot of sort of interest
of this community to be able to
differentiate the products. They spend a
lot of time building and that's
possible. So there is this explicit
recognition of impact permitted
recognized approach for products
pursuing either sustainability or
transition objective which means it's no
longer shoehorned into an article 89
disclosure box where it was never really
you know comfortable sitting. And so
that's that's really a big conceptual
change. And then I think on the question
of the framework and how it's going to
play out there is three elements that
will be key here. Uh one is the the way
that the theory of change and the
intentionality is formulated. So that
has to be a really clear articulation of
an intended impact goal. Then also the
question about contribution. So how your
investment activity contributes to the
to the outcome and then measuring
progress. And that's going to be part of
the new disclosures and we'll have to
see how they are asking for this uh
whether it's sufficiently clear and
sufficiently detailed because one of the
other maybe conflicting aims is of
course to reduce the reporting bring it
down to just I think it's three pages
for impact two pages for transitional
sustainability. So there is a
recognition that impact may need more
more room to be described and there is a
clear understanding that also for the
sustainability category and the spec
sorry specifically for the transition
category that engagement is necessary
and that it should be well documented.
So I think for these two areas
transition and impact you would see a
big emphasis from the regulator to to
showcase your engagement with the
companies you invested in. I was happy
to see that impact products aren't
limited to the sustainable category and
that they can also fall under the
transition category since much of the
impact really arises from companies
actively working toward becoming more
sustainable. For example, those highly
emitting companies are now lowering
their emissions. And engagement was
emphasized in the transition label,
which I agree is a way for investors to
influence and really contribute to the
company's change. Credible engagement
strategies
should feature specific milestones
and have measurable indicators to track
progress on those sustainable outcomes.
Also important is monitoring transition
plans and disclosing science-based
targets are highly relevant for the
transition category.
>> And of course for us as a I mean MSI
also has some some indexes. So we have a
lot of passive investor clients and of
course for them it's also important to
to see that the that climate aligned
benchmarks are another road because
there you wouldn't be able to do the
engagement that you might do on an
active fund, right? So you have both
both recognized both investment
strategies as are are fine for a reg in
that current context of the proposal at
least.
>> Yeah.
>> So now let's shift more on to some of
the risks. So what risk do you see with
SFDR 2.0? So, for example, could there
be unintended consequences such as
potentially oversimplified labels or
inconsistent market adoption or
different confusion between the
different types of labeled products? I
think it's a good question and one that
probably is almost impossible to answer
now because we will see a lot of the
details only coming down in the
delegated act and that that is just the
first part and the second part is then
really the application the supervisory
practice because you might well see that
the categories are nearly identical from
one market to another yet the
supervisory implementation differs
greatly and we've seen this on SFDR even
within the EU where no market handle it
the same way and to give you one example
is the use of estimates. So ESMA would
say you need to make sure you have no
gaps. You don't assume no address impact
just because a company doesn't report
their emissions. So you need estimates.
And the next is is another country and I
won't name names here. But that would
say no way we don't you don't use
estimates. It's not it's not allowed.
And the next saying well we we are
totally fine with estimates. So I think
that sort of practice changes and you
know the commission might say in the
proposal supervisors shouldn't do gold
plating. There is no room for that here.
But there are such small nuances in the
way that supervisors interpret the
rules. It's just very difficult to say
it's goldplating or it's simply national
preferences or you may call it
differently but I think that will be an
important test of practice and that is
of course the same from jurisdiction to
jurisdiction comparing the EU and the
UK. it will be practical matter of of
convergence over time I think as well as
the supervisors talk to each other and
making sure the market associations like
uh USF is is doing their their role to
it and I think they've done a fantastic
job also with a good podcast and uh just
trying to get supervisors and and
regulators to be more sensitive to these
differences in market implementation and
the impact it has on capital allocation.
Okay. So, we're almost out of time, but
I'd like to end with kind of your
opinion and view on some of the
forward-looking future landscape. So,
when we look five years from now, how
will we know whether SFDR 2.0 has worked
or been successful, what do you expect
to see? Would you expect to see changes
in product design, data usage, investor
behavior, or capital allocation as a
success?
>> Yes. So we we recently had our advisory
panel where we have 15 of our largest
clients or 15 clients, not the largest
one but just a good variety of regional
and type of of institutions and one one
was just sticking to my head which was
saying when we were discussing how many
adverse impact indicators do we need and
they were saying well basically we need
five because five is something I can
explain to my retail clients and they
will remember maybe it's even three just
there but I think that's the test of
success for SFTR is that I can actually
explain it to my neighbor, my father,
the man on the street. It's easy. It's
understandable. It sticks. And article 8
n just the names don't really lend
themselves to such a conversation.
People don't understand what it means.
So I think recognizability,
ease of access, comparability, let allow
me to compare different products and I
understand what it means. and SFDR could
now go many directions but I think this
is really the litmus test in the end is
can I can I explain it to someone who is
not working in finance who's not exposed
to these topics who doesn't understand
all these abbreviations but wants to
make a change wants to invest
sustainably and maybe without you know
losing out in the long term but clearly
having a robust return and a sustainable
return I think that mix is anyway what
we're seeing now the whole conversation
with all This backtracking by policy
makers is now fostering centering so
much on what is actually financially
material. How can we explain this in a
simple way to our board that
sustainability counts, that
sustainability matters, that it makes a
difference to your baseline performance
and that this is where we put a lot of
time in our studies and research now at
MCI as well as to explain that
sustainability is a factor in financial
performance and should be understood as
such.
Your last statement is an important one
to repeat that sustainability is a
factor in financial performance and
should be considered as such. So Simone,
thank you so much for joining us today
and for sharing your thoughtful insights
on SFDR 2.0. you helped clarify what
this redesign is really trying to
accomplish for moving beyond article 8
and nine framework toward clear more
credible product categories. I think a
key takeaway is that while the framework
may be evolving and expectations around
transparency and comparability and
robustness are really increasing. So,
we'll certainly be keeping a close eye
on how this develops and I look forward
to continuing the conversation with you
as FTR 2.0 moves closer to
implementation.
>> Thank you, Nicole. It has been a
pleasure.
>> Thank you so much.
[music]
