Hello and welcome to the Enterprise
Investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahberg and I'm thrilled to have Victor
Hagani on the show today. Victor began
his career on the fabled Solomon
Brothers Bondesk back in the 1980s. He
became an MD on John Marweather's bond
arbitrage group before co-founding hedge
fund long-term capital management where
he had a front row seat for its rapid
rise and and eventual demise. A graduate
of the London School of Economics,
Hagani also has served as a senior
research associate at LSE's financial
markets group and in 2007 he launched
Elm Wealth to apply his research in real
world investing. His insights have been
featured in The Economist, the Wall
Street Journal in Bloomberg, and he's
delivered TED talks on investor
psychology and financial strategy. I
have so many questions for Victor, but
my burning ones today are for his book,
The Missing Billionaires, one chosen by
The Economist as one of its best books
of 2023. So, welcome to the show,
Victor.
>> Oh, thanks so much, Mike. Great to be
here.
>> So, the burning question number one,
what are the missing billionaires?
[laughter]
Well, the jumping off point of our book
came from a TEDex talk I gave more than
10 years ago where I was trying to
illustrate the difficulty of making
sound financial decisions over long
periods of time, over a lifetime, which
is really what we have to do these days.
You know, there's really, you know, very
um uh you know, very little in the way
of of defined benefit pensions out
there. So, you know, our retirement is
mostly in our own hands, you know, all
around the developed world. And the um
the puzzle of the missing billionaires
is really this simple observation that
in 1900 there were lots of wealthy
families in America, over 4,000
according to the uh US census in 1900
had more than a million dollars. And a
million dollars growing at the stock
market's return of 10% would have turned
into like $160 billion. the US stock
market this is $ 160 billion dollars by
today and even if you hit that return by
2% let's take 2% off of it so that we
can account for people spending their
wealth paying taxes on what they spend
or even some part of that could be
underperformance relative to the stock
market that you still get $1 million
turning into like $16 billion today.
Let's say that each of those families
had children at kind of an average rate.
Of course, some would have had more and
some would have had less. Some would
have passed the money down to the eldest
child. I mean, there's all kinds of
things we could talk about with this,
but in the simple case, you know, each
one of those families in 1900 would have
about 16 descendant families today that
should all have a billion dollars, you
know, on average. Uh even, you know, at
this 8% return, 2% below the 10% return.
And when we look at the list of
billionaires in America today that is
compiled by Forbes, you're you know
we're hardressed to see anybody on there
that is uh where their wealth is
descended from one of those families in
1900. So, you know, all of those
families or uh you know, hit some kind
of bumps in the road where they weren't
able to maintain
the uh you know, the the level of wealth
that they had in 1900.
And you know, it's it's it's you know,
4,000* 16 is 64,000. You know, we're not
saying, "Oh, well, we should see 64,000
billionaires and we only see coming from
those guys and we only see 20,000. So,
wow, that's No, I mean, this is a crazy
thing. I mean, there's not one that that
we know of. You mean maybe there's one,
maybe there's 10. And of course, you
know, not everybody could have done it.
You know, the world would be different
if they didn't invest and spend the way
that they did. But it really just to me
is such a strong signal of how difficult
and challenging it is to invest and
spend wisely to make sound financial
decisions over a lifetime that boy is it
tough is what that indicates to us. And
that's a jumping off point for our book
where we tried to help people to
understand and adopt tools for better
financial decision-making.
>> That's right. So yeah, the book covers
the landscape there. It really serves as
a general resource for investors wanting
to understand a little bit about all
options that uh are out there, but at
its core, it's really about risk
management and sizing bets. So, what did
you conclude there on terms of what
would serve investors best?
So, you know, in the book and whenever
we talk about it, you know, investing
can be thought of in in a nice way as as
involving two decisions. What is it that
I want to own? what's in what do I want
in my portfolio and how much right
there's a what or a selection decision
and then there's a how much decision and
you know we've observed that like 99.9%
of the discussion that we see in the
financial media in you know all over the
place is really about the what you know
what's what should we own what should we
be worried about should we be worried
that Nvidia is too big or has too high a
PE or whatever [snorts] and not enough
attention goes to this how much
question. And they're equally important.
I mean that if you make if you choose
good uh investments but you size them
incorrectly, you can go bust or you
could have too little benefit from them.
So the how much decision is as critical
as the what decision and it's an easier
decision too because you're uh you just
need to get it right for yourself in
your own circumstances your own risk
aversion whereas the what question
you're kind of competing against
everybody else. I mean you can make a
decision to not compete against other
people to some extent by going into
index funds which we think is a great
way to go on the what question but you
know the what question in its broader
sense if you're thinking about all the
options out there is a really tough one.
Again, you know, we would we talk about
the what decision just a little bit in
the book because we don't talk about it
more because everybody is talking about
it. You know, any and and all good
personal finance books talk about it.
And so, we didn't feel we needed to go
so much we have it into it. So, we have
a chapter devoted to that. But the rest
of the chapters are all really about
sizing.
And we think that the missing
billionaires that the we think the best
solution to the puzzle of the missing
billionaires or the best explanation for
the missing billionaires is poor sizing
decisions that we think so many of these
families wound up taking too much risk.
Taking too much risk that was
idiosyncratic by being in concentrated
portfolios. You know, the Vanderbilts
stayed in railroads and transportations
until they dissipated all their wealth
and their main holding company, I guess,
went under in the 1950s or something
like that. And you know that these
wealthy families have a tendency to stay
in concentrated portfolios and thereby
take a lot of idiosyncratic risk that
you know we believe should not I mean
that theory and practice believe should
not get compensated. It's only
systematic undiversifiable risk that
should get compensated. And
>> that that's interesting. Victor, if I
could cut in for one quick sec there is
just
>> Sorry, going a little long there.
>> Oh, not no not at all. And I I'd love
for you to continue explaining uh the
thesis and the findings from the book.
But just one thing that that we
encounter sometimes with uh you know
advisers out there will encounter which
is folks who generated their wealth.
They generated it by concentrating the
risk in one thing. They built a business
say and they sold it or they built it
very large and it kicked off a lot of
cash flow and then they maintained that
perspective on risk thereafter where
they're like okay well this is what made
me rich but it's maybe not really what's
going to keep you rich is is is to your
point it's just there there needs to be
a switch in perspective on risk-taking
at some point in the line if you want to
preserve that long term.
>> Yep. Yeah. Exactly. One one of the
things that I really enjoyed in
throughout the book is you return to
this coin flip scenario and and I just I
love it just because it's it's fun for
me as someone who's worked in the
financial services for many years to
think about people in our seats doing
this and doing it badly. talk about the
coin flip game or what scenario, how
whatever you called it in in the book,
but uh and and what it showed you about
people's understanding of of risk and
and and return and and how to size bets
properly.
So, you know that with this missing
billionaires parable, we had this notion
that people really weren't thinking
enough about sizing. So we decided to
run an experiment to try to test this
out a little bit and see if people
had either an intuitive or a trained
approach towards risk-taking and bet
sizing. So we conducted an experiment
where we let people flip a coin and
digital coin, you know, we told them we
had programmed to land 60% of the time
on heads, which we did. It wasn't a
trick question or anything. And we gave
them some money. We give them $25 and we
said you could keep flipping this coin
and bet as much of the as much of your
bank roll as you want on each flip and
at the end of a half an hour we'll give
you however much money you've grown the
$25 into subject to a cap which if you
get close to the cap we'll let you know
what it is and the cap was $250.
And you know it's a really simple thing
that one should do and when you think
about the strategy you know it's a
pretty simple one to maximize your
chances of getting lots of money from
us. It's flip it fast bet on heads every
time and bet some rough constant
proportion of your bankroll on heads
every time. And you know you should bet
something in the 10 to 20% range is is
kind of the optimal amount to do. And
all of that seems super intuitive as
soon as somebody tells it to you. But
when you're given this game to play and
you haven't thought about it before and
you haven't been taught about it before,
and by the way, all of the subjects for
these experiments were either young
people in M's programs in finance at
prestigious universities or people
working on Wall Street. And the
performance was terrible. People didn't
do well at all. People did really weird
things. And very few people, you know,
we gave exit interviews and very few
people had ever heard of bet sizing were
ever taught it. And then we went and
looked at the curricula of finance
programs and we noticed that it wasn't
being taught anywhere to a large extent.
You know, I think that things have
changed a little bit now. I think we ran
this experiment like 10 years ago and
it's been popular and we wrote it up in
the journal of portfolio management. So,
you know, I think it's getting more onto
the curriculum, but not enough for, you
know, I think that making financial
decisions under uncertainty is just not
taught enough. And, you know, it's like
even if it were taught in masters and
finance programs, that's not enough, you
know, [laughter] like that's even not
even nearly enough, right? Even if it
were taught there, that's not enough
because how many people do that, you
know, that
>> that should be taught in home and high
school?
>> Yeah. I mean, it should be taught all
over the place and it should be covered
in in books. And so, we wrote a book to
put it in there, but our book is still
not popular enough, you know, or it's
not for a broad enough audience. And I
think maybe we'll try to I don't know.
It's I mean, maybe we'll try to write
something that's a little bit more
accessible than that book that we wrote
to try to fill the gap. But when you
read the great books on personal
financial decision-making, right? Like
when you think about which ones are
really written by, you know, people with
their minds and hearts in the right
places, you know, and and you think
about those books, you know, maybe it's,
you know, Bogle's Common Sense
Investing, or maybe it's Malchiel and
Ellis or whatever, or maybe I mean, you
know, we I think that you and I we would
agree on a dozen of these books and none
of them touch this topic. And the reason
that they don't, I believe, is because
they are writing to this broad audience
in America or in the developed world
where financial literacy is woefully
low. And so they feel that they need to
focus that message on just a few things
in those books. And so, you know, I
think that we need to, you know, have
some books and some material out there
for people after they read Common Sense
Investing by Bogle. That's the next
thing, you know, because once you've
read Common Sense Investing by Bogle, if
you've read the four pillars of
investing by Bernstein, you're kind of
done, you know, like you you don't
really need to read the next one because
we agree on these ideas and all of them
do a great job of it. We need the next
book, you know, to graduate into. We
need the next the next thing. And, you
know, I don't know if we'll do it, but
hopefully there'll be more of those too
for the people that want more and don't
want to just go laterally.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And to be fair to the folks
on there and to your point as well,
there is math involved in understanding
what that optimal window is. The the
three said 10 to 20%, but it's it, you
know, it depends on what the odds are
that you're working with, the 6040 or a
7030. And there is there's a bit of math
that's required to do that. But it's uh
it's it's a great starting point in
terms of the book. I I enjoyed it. And
don't be too hard on yourself, Victor.
It was actually was a very approachable
book. I enjoyed it. There is some math
in it. There's a little bit of algebra
or uh Latin in there rather, but uh not
too much. And uh and it it really covers
the landscape. I mean, there's I I was
making notes kind of throughout it. And
there's I've got a few peppered in here
that I'm hoping to get to uh today. But
um one of the things that that I I was
really surprised at and forgive me if
this is retreading similar territory to
what we just talked about, but it was
amazing to me this another experiment
that you guys did and and I think you
won an award for uh for a paper you
wrote up on this as well is on the
crystal ball experiment. What lessons
from this study should professional
investors take to heart?
So we um we did this experiment. We
called it the crystal ball challenge.
And it was inspired actually by a tweet
by um Nasim Talb where he said uh give
the person the newspaper one day ahead
and after a year he'll go broke.
>> And we thought it would be really cool
to test that out. So what we did was we
gave people we ran this experiment where
we basically gave people the Wall Street
Journal a day ahead. let them trade on
prices from the day before
and then closed out the positions, you
know, after the next day when the news
happened and let people trade with
leverage and stocks and bonds trying to
take advantage of getting the news a day
ahead. And we chose the days of we chose
the newspaper days to be ones where
stuff happened, you know, like not just
days when there was no news, but we
chose uh I don't know a third of them
were from employment reports. We we went
random like we didn't try to find days
when employment was strong and um and
bonds went up or something like that.
>> We ch we went randomly but we chose from
days when there was stuff going on and
when markets were volatile and you know
we've had tens of thousands of people
now play this game on our website. I
haven't tracked how people have been
doing over time but to begin with we
played it for money. We gave people
money and let them play and and we were
going to pay them and we we did pay them
for how they did. And uh you know it's
really humbling. It's very difficult to
uh you know it's very difficult to like
get super rich from having the newspaper
a day ahead on 15 different days. And
you know I think that's the most amazing
thing is that sometimes you know the
news comes out and it's like this is
what I think is going to happen and the
exact opposite happens in a big way.
It's just very hard and I think the
lesson there uh you know we were also
looking at how do people make sizing
decisions and things like that. But I
think that really one of the uh fun
lessons from it and powerful lessons is
just like you know don't uh you know
that it's that that even if you have the
newspaper a day ahead you know you're
not going to do that well. So don't try
to you know don't make investment
decisions based on some near-term
reading of the economic or political
economic tea leaves because even if you
had a crystal ball you probably wouldn't
do great from that. you know that
there's some other ingredients for
success there which are harder to come
by even than that.
>> Yeah. You never you never really know,
do you? What how a market's going to
ingest certain news uh whether it's
macro or microeconomic really at the at
the company level. It's always a bit of
a crapshoot, isn't it?
>> Yeah. Yeah, it sure is.
So, uh, you you referenced it earlier
when you said you didn't get into, uh,
sort of security level analysis and and
it's more of a like using index funds,
ETFs to build a portfolio. And I want to
sort of build on that theme a bit
because it was something that you
covered a lot in in the book, which is
kind of how to apply this sizing to the
average portfolio. And uh so I wonder if
you could talk a bit about enhanced
indexing and kind of what your takeaways
were around how listeners to the show
can really apply this in their
day-to-day to to help improve how
they're managing their portfolios.
>> Sure. So you know at the uh at the core
our risk takingaking has to be a
function of expected return and risk.
So, if I give you a 60/40 coin, the 60%
chance of landing on heads and let you
bet on it and or I give you a coin
that's 70% chance of landing on heads.
You should bet a different amount of
your wealth on those two coins. The 7030
coin, you should bet you should bet
more. You should bet twice as much
actually because the expected return is
basically twice as much and the risk is
about the same for each flip. And uh so
that's that's at the basic level you
know how we should think about
risk-taking in our uh investment
portfolios. Now you know there's the the
what question you know what to invest in
is is has a relation to this in the
sense that I only want to invest in
things where I can come up with an
expected return that that makes sense to
me. So, you know, it's hard for me to
want to have oil in my even though I
think oil is this huge asset class. A
hundred trillion dollars or more of oil
reserves, you know, even at a discounted
per barrel price are out there and it's
owned by people ultimately. It's owned
by us. And so, it should have a risk
premium, but I can't see what it is. I
don't have any cash flows to really go
on. I I just don't know what that risk
premium is. And so, you know, it's like,
well, how am I going to invest in it if
I really don't know what the expected
return is for for that? And so, one
thing for me is I want to invest in
things that should have a risk premium
in terms of the risky part of my
portfolio. The safe part, I want to be
safe. But for the risky part of my
portfolio, I want to invest in things
that should have a risk premium because
they're big and they have
undiversifiable risk. And I want to
invest in things where I can estimate
the risk premium and also where the fees
are low and where I'm not taking a lot
of idiosyncratic risk in the whole
process. So that takes me to lowcost
broad market index funds as the building
blocks of my portfolio. Then I have to
estimate their expected return and I
have to think about the risk. you know,
I might think about the risk simply as
high risk or low risk, for instance, or
I might be more, you know, I might try
to be more precise than that and I have
to bring in my level of risk aversion.
So, you know, one way I could do it is I
could use uh, you know, some, you know,
I could I could try to build things up,
you know, in some in some way using, you
know, a utility curve that captures my
risk aversion. But I don't need to do
that. I can just do it much more easily
than that. I mean one way that I can do
that is I can just say how much equities
do I want in my let's say I I you know I
get to this point or you agree and you
come to the same point where I am where
I'm just going to invest in equities and
fixed income. That's it. I'm going to
invest in government bonds and the
global equity market. You know that's my
that's those are my building blocks.
That's what I'm going to build my
portfolio out of. And I'm thinking about
my asset allocation now. So, uh, I might
start off and just say, well, how much
do I want in equities if we're in a
world in which equities have an expected
return that's say 4% any but it could be
anything but 4% more than safe
government bonds. If I think that
equities have an extra 4% return and
let's say uh the riskiness of the market
is at like a normal level. It's not high
risk like uh like in the COVID period in
early 2020. It's not like super quiet
like it was in the first half of 2017. I
don't know why it was so quiet then. It
was just particularly peaceful. But it's
kind of normal in between. You know,
something you know like the way things
are today maybe or maybe a little bit
less volatile than you know the way
things were a couple weeks ago.
>> [laughter]
>> It's like okay and that assuming yeah
assuming that this quiet is is not quiet
before the storm but we'll see about
that.
>> So how much equities do I want to hold
in that case and that really is
answering this question of risk
aversion. It's also kind of answering a
question of how risky do I think stocks
are because I'm just saying normal
riskiness and I just need to answer that
question as a starting point. And once I
do that I'm not saying that it's ever
the case that equities offer 4% more
than safe assets. I'm not saying on
average in the past it was that. I'm
just saying I need to ground my
portfolio somewhere. So I just
arbitrarily pick a number 4%, five,
seven, two, three. It could be anything.
>> So you'd be 6040 if you got a 4% equity
risk premium. That's your baseline.
>> Yeah. And then you say where do I want
to be? And each person would answer that
question somewhat differently, you know.
So for me, you know, I would probably
say I want to be 75 to 80% in equities
in that world.
>> Uh, okay. So now I'm almost home. I'm
almost finished now because now all I
need to do is I say, "Well, if that's
where I want to be at 4%, where do I
want to be?" If equities are offering
6%, where do I want to be if equities
are offering 2% more than safe assets?
Where do I want to be? If we're in a
high-risisk environment, where do I want
to be in a low-risk environment? And I
just need to write those things down. I
can interpolate if I want between them.
And of course, then I need to come up
with where are those estimates? And and
there's lots of places to get those
estimates from. They could get those
estimates from a consensus of 20 leading
financial institutions and investment
managers and average their capital
market assumptions together for the
long-term expected return of the global
stock market. I could just you know what
we do is we think earnings yield
cycllically adjusted earnings yield we
think is a good estimate of the
long-term real return of stocks and then
compare it to uh a safe asset return of
the real yield of some long-term
government bonds
>> and that's it. That's your expected
return uh your expected risk premium for
equities. Now you've got that number.
And then for the risk, you can just, you
know, like what we like to do is we just
say, are we in a high-risisk environment
or a low risk? If we're in a high risk,
we're going to cut exposures by a third.
If we're in a low risk, we're going to
increase exposures by a third. But you
could do that lots of different ways.
And it's all about the same. You just
want to cut back when risk is really
high. And
>> so risk is just volatility like VIX
measures. And
>> yeah, I mean, you could use VIX
indicators. You could use you you could
you could use whatever you I mean all of
the risk measures point the same way
when we're in a high-risisk environment
and low you know there's not a lot of
ambiguity but you could go for a mix of
measures it doesn't matter I mean the
main thing is when you know risk is high
you want to run stuff lower you want to
run less equity risk I think less equity
exposure and when risk is high and and
you could call that VA targeting you
know and and that's a sensible way to do
things but you need to be disciplined uh
you need to have a set of rules and you
need to do it. And you know, I I I just
think that, you know, static asset
allocation to me is just like an
abregation of duty by anybody that's
doing that. I mean, it just makes no
logical sense whatsoever to just have
the same asset allocation, whatever is
the expected return and risk of your
risky portfolio. I mean, I don't know
how we got to this place where that is
like the default thing that everybody's
doing. I mean, not only is it not only I
think is it suboptimal for everybody to
be doing that, but it also I think is is
is giving us a lot of marketwide
problems too. You know, the fact that
nobody wants to think about the expected
return of the stuff they own is is quite
remarkable. So, Victor, you're you're
describing in the world that I've
operated in for for my career, it's we
talk about strategic asset allocation
and then maybe you do some tactical
stuff at the at the margin, right? So,
you're on 6040 on equities and if you
have a strong view on equity returns
relative to bonds, maybe you go
overweight equities, um you know, you
move the target to 6238.
But historically, I mean, it's always a
a tough one. And in firms that I've been
at, it's always tough because that that
asset allocation, whatever you decide to
do with that is the biggest lever. It's
going to have the biggest impact on
performance and it cuts both ways. So
I've always found that there there's a
lot of conservatism around how far away
from what sort of down the fairway your
original sort of base case scenario that
all the all the portfolios are based on
whatever that strategic asset mix which
is how would I do in when when things
are sailing normally and then try to
maintain the perspective on that. But I
guess what I'm trying to ask is like in
your world, do you do you deviate quite
widely then from that kind of base case
when you're allocating or or is it still
within like a couple percentage points
in in a sort of a say a 75 25 uh
scenario? Would you would you go plus or
minus 10 or 15% from that or how how
wide would you go? So in our separately
managed accounts we leave it up to every
investor to decide how dynamic they want
to be but we tell them that 100% dynamic
and the dynamic that we do for
ourselves. So first we also let them
they they have to tell us what they want
in their baseline. So they might say I
just want 50% equities if the expected
return is 4% over safe assets. But if we
take somebody that's typical baseline
portfolio of one of our investors is
like 7030 that they want 70% in equities
if equities are offering an extra 4%
return relative to safe assets and risk
is normal. And then we say to them well
if you want us to be 100% dynamic you
know which is how we've been doing
things you know your equity exposure
could go anywhere from zero to 100. And
if you want us to be 50% dynamic, you
know, then your uh your equity exposure
could theoretically go from 35 to 100.
So really very dynamic, very, you know,
and most of our investors are kind of at
100% dynamic. We have an ETF, the L
Market Navigator ETF, which is is 100%
dynamic. Now having said that, you know,
we've never been in in an environment
where we would have had zero in
equities, but the rules that we have
would allow for that. You know, the
lowest equity exposure we've had in our
portfolios over the last 15 years or so,
you know, has been like 40%. But but
we've been pretty close to 100% at at
other times. We've been at 100% at other
times because we have a leverage
constraint that doesn't let us go above.
So we've been pinned at 100% many times
over the last 15 years. So yeah, it's
not 1 or 2% and 1 or 2% just doesn't
make any sense to us. You know that if
you believe that US stocks for instance,
if you believe that if let's say that
you're only investing in US stocks, you
don't have international
diversification.
And if you look at US stocks, how can
you believe that US stocks have a higher
expected return versus fixed income than
a couple percent. Nobody, like virtually
nobody believes that. I mean some
individual investors believe that but 20
how 20 financial institutions out there
basically none of them believe it from
Vanguard to Black Rockck to Goldman to
PIMCO whoever that's what they're all
telling us for the next 10 years is that
stocks have an expected return you know
no more than a couple percent more than
safe assets and the average of them is
less than 2%. So that's really different
than the way things have been at other
times in the past. How can you have the
same asset allocation when US equities
are offering 1 and a.5% more than bonds
over the next 10 years than versus a
time in 2010 when they were offering 6%
more than than safe assets? It makes no
sense.
>> Yeah. Because rates were lower and then
markets were in the toilet, right? Yeah.
>> Yeah. It makes it makes no sense. And
risk, you know, the mark, you know, I'm
talking about 2010. He came out of the
financial crisis, you know, markets were
not super volatile. They were they were
docile similar to today. You know,
there's there's always a risk around the
corner of a problem, but you know, they
were pretty normal. They were normal
level of risk, but they were offering a
lot more relative to safe assets than
today. By a lot, you know, not by a
little, you know, how how can you
justify that same asset allocation? I
don't understand how we got here. I
think that there's this confusion
between stock picking and dynamic asset
allocation where people equate the two
things. It's like, oh, I I believe that
stock picking
>> Well, I think it's it's benchmark risk
as well, right? Especially for
institutional investors, right? If they
>> But what what benchmark there? Yeah,
that's the question.
>> It doesn't make any sense.
>> The consultants require you to be held
to a benchmark. So that that's how they
end up getting married to it, I think,
is the problem.
>> But it's all circular. It just makes no
sense, right? I mean some it's like
somebody told you that you have a
benchmark. It makes no sense. I mean
that you're that investing has to has to
tie back to expected return risk and
risk aversion. There's no alternative.
You can't avoid that logic. It it
there's there's no place to hide from
that. And yet, you know, that's what
we're doing.
>> Yeah. So So I can't have I can't have
you on here and not ask one question
about LTCM. So if if I maybe you could
briefly describe I mean we don't we're
already a bit over time here but I I
would love to hear just a little bit of
from your perspective your experience
with with long-term capital in terms of
you don't need to go through everything
that happened most of the listeners on
the show will remember but uh how did
that experience inform your last I guess
27 subsequent years in the market and as
well as writing the book. Well, I guess
you know one thing I I felt was that uh
you know after I reflected on the
experience and you know I kind of wish
that instead of somebody giving me the
reminiscences of a stock operator to
read when I came to Wall Street in 1984
that they had given me something similar
to the missing billionaires book you
know or or they had given me those ideas
you know not that book but given me
those ideas. those ideas all existed
from the 1960s
late 1960s
>> and I wish that I had been taught those
ideas and that it had been impressed
upon me how important they were. So you
know I think that looking back on the
experience yeah I feel that uh you know
that's the one thing that I kind of wish
is that I had had a greater appreciation
for you know for these ideas of of uh
investment sizing and uh you know
particularly making better personal
financial decisions. you know, when
you're, you know, when you're running
money in a strategy, there's a risk of
loss, you know, and and so, uh,
investors in our, you know, investors in
our fund knew there was a risk of loss.
We knew there was a risk of loss and,
you know, things went really well and
then things didn't go well. And that's
just investing. You know, if you're
going to try to invest in certain kinds
of strategies that people hired us to
do, you know, that's that was that. You
know, I think there's other, you know,
more micro lessons that could be useful
to hedge fund managers, but the really
important lessons for investors, for
individual people, you know, is uh, you
know, is more to do with how I made
decisions about how much of my savings
and compensation and and all of that
that I kept invested in our business. I
you know that I that um a more a greater
appreciation for for bet sizing for
investment sizing would have led me to a
different decision at the time. And so I
think that's really the most valuable
lesson from LTCM that is not so widely
appreciated. The books that were written
after LTCM they were written in a hurry.
They were written without reflection you
know which okay there was demand for the
books. So authors wrote the books as
fast as they could, but they didn't do
they didn't do justice to the lessons
that you know that became more apparent
with uh once once a bigger amount of
time had passed and people could reflect
on things and I think that's really one
of the big lessons was around individual
financial decision-making.
>> Yeah. My my own recollection of that
time is it was it was formative for me
because I was actually just a cub
analyst. I was in, you know, wideeyed
Canadian in New York. I was out there
for the the analyst training at Maril
Lynch that summer of 98 and uh yeah, so
they had all the the TV stations going
and the Russian Devault happened and uh
and things were happening with LTCM and
it was uh it was a lot going on at the
very beginning of my young career,
[laughter]
but uh
>> Well, you made it through. That's great.
>> I made it through. I'm still here and so
are you. So fantastic.
Well, Victor, usually I ask our our
guests a two-part question at the end of
the of each interview. Uh, and but I
feel like you've answered it when uh
when you talked about your reflections
on LTCM, which was uh you know, what key
piece of advice would you drop for
yourself is is to focus on bet sizing
and uh and understand
risk outside of just what, but also how
much. So, we'll leave it at that. I've
been speaking today with Victor Aani,
founder of Elm Wealth and author of The
Missing Billionaires. Thanks so much for
coming on the show today, Victor.
>> Thanks, Mike. Great to be here.
>> I'm Mike Wahberg and this has been the
enterprising investor.
