Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations [music] with
business leaders, educators, and
industry colleagues from around the
globe. Educational Alpha is sponsored by
I Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power
[music] the world's alternative
investment marketplace. Part innovator,
part educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers [music] intuitive, scalable
digital solutions that have transformed
how private market and hedge fund
investments are bought [music] and sold.
With I Capital, financial adviserss,
wealth managers, [music] and asset
managers around the world now have
access to everything they need to
deliver the return and diversification
[music]
potential of alternatives to high-n
networth investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com. [music]
In this season 3 finale of Educational
Alpha, host Bill Kelly is joined by Paul
Smith, director at the Financial
Modeling Institute to explore themes of
professionalism, sustainability, and
long-term career growth in finance. Paul
shares insights from his diverse global
career, including his thoughts on AI,
asset management, and the need for
renewed trust in financial services. The
conversation also tackles demographic
shifts, global sustainability efforts,
[music] and the evolving role of finance
in solving pressing global challenges.
Paul Smith, welcome to Educational
Alpha.
>> Thank you, Bill. Lovely to be here.
>> This is going to be a great episode. I
hatched this plan via email a week or
two ago. You were off in London and
agreed once you get back to Hong Kong,
you would come on. So, I'm thrilled that
you did join me. And I think I last saw
you almost a year ago to the day when I
was having my very last days as CEO of
the Kai Association. It was a little bit
of a sendoff retirement celebration in
Hong Kong and you were kind enough
between holiday parties and the like to
stop in. So, it was great to see you
there and certainly the friendship will
endure despite that. And in a moment,
Paul, true to form, as I do with all the
guests, I'll ask you as my final guest
to go through a little bit of your
background. But I just want to make a
couple of thoughts and maybe closing
observations. And I don't think the
world will stop spinning if there's one
less podcast in the world. There's
plenty of them. and financial services.
But this will be when it airs on
Christmas Eve, which hopefully will be a
gift to our listeners. This will be the
108th episode of Educational Alpha
across 3 years and three seasons. And I
think if I add up the cumitive minutes,
over 4,000 minutes of hopefully very,
very good content. I'll let the
listeners decide on that. But I had a
handful of thank yous I want to put in
now so I don't forget them at the end.
and most notably Paulina who's in the
background here along with Susie and
Camille who did all the scheduling, the
editing, putting these episodes
together, making me sound smarter than I
was has just been an absolute gift. So I
do thank all of them. The 100 plus
guests including you Paul that have
really have been special and different
and have added value to the listeners
and the feedback I've gotten not so much
from me but from the nuggets all of you
have left just been extraordinary. And
then Lawrence Kalcano and the gang at I
Capital. They've been supportive without
question and they never tried to
influence who I had on what I said.
Never protested any position I took even
though some of them might have been
contrary to their business and just an
awesome group of professionals and great
great sponsors. And then lastly, as I
think about the most important group is
the listeners. They have shown up in a
very big way. And if I add up the
collective downloads over these 108
episodes, it's been almost 40,000,
approaching 40,000 downloads. So
hopefully that's made a difference. And
maybe a conclusion, I've been asked
often, Bill, why do you do this? I'm
curious by nature. I love to try to
touch as many listeners out there, but I
very much believe if I've bent the arc
of transparency for the betterment of
just a single investor, all of this is
worth it. I like to think it was more
than one, but it's just one. I'm good
with that. even if this is indeed the
final episode. So with that, Paul, I
think the listeners know by the end why
I chose you, but maybe you could just
start with a little bit of your
background and experience and I think
the listeners find out quickly that our
careers have run in parallel tracks even
though I didn't know you to maybe the
third or fourth segment career, but I'll
let you run with that.
>> Thanks, Bill. And congratulations on
what's been an incredible run from my
perspective. You've been an absolutely
model professional and a standout
individual in our industry and I think
I'm absolutely certain in fact that you
have bent the ark of transparency for
far more than one person. So you should
go into what I suspect won't be a
particularly lengthy retirement with
some great confidence on your side that
you've made a real difference. So thank
you for everything that you've done. me
very simply put as your listeners can
hear I'm English born in London raised
in London spent the last 30 years in
Hong Kong I've had a rather sort of
mixed bag of professional life if you
like I started as a chartered accountant
in the UK moved into asset management
ran an asset management business in
Paris in France and in London for 10 or
so years then moved from there to Hong
Kong to run a fund administration
business the bank Bermuda, which was the
second largest custodian and fund
administrator in the alternative fund
world. We sold that to HSBC. So I worked
for HSBC for a few years doing pretty
much the same job. Left there, started
my own asset management business as a
hedge fund, CEDA. Did that for a few
years until the financial crisis made
that uh tenable business. We just didn't
have enough capital to compete in a
marketplace that I'm sure you remember
well changed dramatically in 2008 2009.
So I left there became a third party
marketer for a few years found that an
extremely unsatisfactory way of earning
my living and so joined the CFA and that
was my final professional swanong if you
like. I ran the CFA from 2015 to the end
of 2019. First time in my career when I
exhibited perfect timing. I left
literally six months before COVID hit.
The only time in my life where I can
actually genuinely hand on heart say
that my timing was perfect. Since then,
I've been primarily an independent
director of investment funds, family
offices, financial education businesses.
That's really what I do today. Pretty
busy. Got a full slate of what's I think
now commonly referred to as a portfolio
career. where I've got a full slate of
bits and pieces that I do that keep me
occupied and keep me connected with the
industry.
>> Excellent. Before we move on from that,
I mentioned a couple of parallels and
you're a charted accountant, a CPA,
albeit laps, but we both started out
what was then known as Price Waterhouse,
I believe.
>> Yes, that's true. Yeah.
>> So, a couple of parallels and we're
about the same vintage. I've got five
kids, I think. Do you have four or five?
>> I have five. I think you're probably
ahead of me in the grandkid states,
though, Bill. I've only got five at this
stage.
>> I've got just two. So, you've got me
beat there.
>> Oh, well, I'm winning there.
>> Two within 3 weeks at this year. So, I'm
catching up on you. But a couple
interesting career things. So, maybe not
completely parallel because we we both
started out at Price Warehouse, but
maybe some divergence, but I can sum my
career up to maybe four quarters. And
that first period was trying to figure
things out. I'm going to come back to
that in a moment because I think it's
important. And then I didn't start to
specialize in asset management myself as
well until probably I was about 30. So
the first maybe six eight years figuring
out specialized and then doing what I
really wanted to do and love doing which
is advocating for the client and my
vessel was a little bit of independent
director work early in my career than I
planned. But KA became the platform to
do that. And now, like you, I'm in this
I don't know if I like the term
portfolio phase, but for want of a
better description, I'm going to use
that. But it's really doing what I love.
And I've been able to pick the things
that I got the most enjoyment out of in
the 40 plus years of my career. And now
really trying to go deeper on those. And
again, similar to this podcast, whether
or not it makes a difference in a big
span, I don't care so much. But whether
or not I can influence and bend arcs, I
think we can. And there's a reason why
we should do that. Like you, Paul,
through the work at professional bodies
like Kaio CFA or maybe just by dent of
our age and time on this planet, I get a
lot of young people reaching out to me
asking career advice and they want to
get into that seat at KKR or Bane or
Blackstone. And I say to them, like
everything in life and career, the
unknowable is present all the time. And
you should look at your career as a body
of work and where you are in that first
six weeks, six months, six years matters
less as opposed to just constantly being
challenging yourself, being your own CMO
and trying to figure things out. And
you've done a lot of very interesting
things. I don't think you had a grand
plan, but maybe what your advice would
be, and you probably do talk to a lot of
younger folks that are saying, "What do
I do?"
>> I do. I never had a grand plan. I've
always stumbled forward, but I guess if
there was a theme to that, I think kind
of what you're poking at, the issues in
life are firstly don't be in a hurry,
particularly nowadays where you're
likely to work until you're 70. Now, I
know that's in some ways a depressing
message to have to deliver, but both of
us are there or thereabouts, and it's
not such a bad thing. It keeps you
active. It keeps you busy. You don't
need to rush. But what you do need to do
throughout your career is I think be
alive to two things. One is are you
always learning new things in your job
really and that's always been my mantra
is if you stop learning if you look back
at the year and obviously we're a year
end at the moment. If you look back at
the last 12 months and you say, "Well,
I've learned nothing new." Then you've
really got to stand back and sort of
say, "Well, is this the right place for
me?" Because continuous learning, I know
that's a bit of a cliche, but it's very,
very important in the way that you
approach your life. That's the first
thing. And then secondly, never be
afraid to take an opportunity that's
presented to you, whether it's in my
case, I've been very fortunate. I've
lived and worked in France, in Ireland,
in London, in New York, in Virginia, in
Hong Kong. And all of those took a
little bit of courage in that you've got
to shake your personal life up, you got
to shake your professional life up,
you've got to push yourself to do new
things. But even if a particular move
didn't really work out from a
professional perspective, and some of
those things didn't, they all worked out
from an additive perspective in terms of
adding to my knowledge, my experience,
my ability to communicate and empathize
with people across cultures. All of
those things were very important to me
in my career. And when you look back,
they formed sort of building blocks that
enabled you eventually to get to where
you were going. You may not know it at
the time, but all experience is very
valuable. And if you keep yourself open
to it, reach for opportunities that you
might feel are a bit of a stretch and
are a bit frightening, but have the
courage to jump, then I think that
coupled with a commitment to lifelong
learning, you'll be surprised where you
end up in life. One last observation,
then we can move on. I agree with
everything you said. Particularly, I
want to put a bold underscore because
I've said it so many times before.
There's plenty of reasons to leave a
job. I want to make more money. I don't
like my boss. I don't like the hours. I
don't like being in the in the office 5
days a week. Those are decisions you can
make and they're very binary. Whether or
not you should make them is another
question, but there's one that
absolutely is hit the exit button is the
moment you stop learning. If somebody
cuts that lifeline off, you go and ask
no questions. But in listening to you
now, you and I did have the opportunity
to present together a couple of times in
my career. And the one I remember
distinctly cuz I had a personal
connection was my son Sam was a Fidelity
and he asked us to come in and talk to
some of the younger professionals. And
there might have been a hundred or so
people in the room, several hundred
piped in. And I remember something you
said that stuck with me and I've used
the line myself which is get yourself
into as big of a global organization as
you possibly can and build your network.
That has served me well as I thought
about it then and now where you go to
organizations for UHSBC or for both of
us Price Waterhouse. I was at Bear
Sterns Lehman Brothers. They didn't
exist that don't exist anymore, but had
awesome networks back then. And that is
a superpower and I don't know if a lot
of these young folks really realize how
important that is later in your career.
>> I absolutely agree. I think it fits into
the you're going to be working a long
time, don't be in a hurry. Particularly
in my part of the world out here in
Asia, you talk to young people and they
kind of want to be on a beach retired by
the time they're sort of 30, 35. you
sort of say to well nice idea might be a
long and boring life that you've got in
front of you but it's unlikely to happen
really I mean very few people hit the
ball out of the park in that way and
because they're in a rush they tend to
reach for bright shiny things and those
bright shiny things in finance tend to
be in your wheelhouse in the alternative
world for one of a better phrase and so
they naturally want to go into hedge
funds or private equity where they can
make a lot money quickly in their eyes.
And I think that's the wrong move for
someone straight out of college or two
or three years into their career for
really the reasons that you articulated.
And the final one that I would add into
that is the learning of good habits and
being trained. Big companies put
training into you. And although that may
be really tedious at the time you're
sitting in the classroom and absorbing
what you may think are not very useful
lessons, but the training and the
inculcation of good work habits is
absolutely vital formation. As it is for
any young person, whether you're
2-year-old child or a 22 year old
person, the most important thing that
your elders can do for you is to instill
good habits into you. And you don't get
that in most environments, but you do
get it in the mainstream, the bigger
businesses. And that's another reason, I
think, for saying early on in my career,
I want to work for a marquee name
because they'll help me develop the
disciplines that I'm going to need
throughout my life.
>> Great observations, a great segue to
where I want to go next, which is the
future, but more specifically, the
future of professionalism. Right before
I signed on, Paul, I went to
happygolucky chat GPT and asked it to
tell me the definition and the outlook
for the future professionalism. And as
we know, one of the criticisms of chat
GPT is it can hallucinate. But I'll read
to you what it said. And I don't think
there's any hallucinations in here. So
it says the future of professionalism in
finance is going to involve the major
shift from traditional number crunching
to strategic techdriven business
partnering focusing on skills in AI,
data analytics, ESG and strong
communication skills. And then I won't
bore you with the details, but the very
end it spit out the new and growing
roles that professionals should be
aspiring to. There's six or seven listed
here. And mid-career, I can tell you
without qualification, I've never heard
of any one of these. Mid-career. I know
a bit about what they are today.
Sustainability finance advisor, digital
transformation analyst, financial data
scientist, reg tech specialist,
cryptocurrency and digital asset
advisor, AIdriven financial strategist.
None of that was covered in university
for me. None of it was covered in any
professional exam I ever took. But I can
absolutely relate to these roles
existing today. So I think that this can
be very very scary if you're mid-career.
I think it could be awesome if you're
coming into this industry because if you
think about where do you find alpha? You
find alpha where there's great pockets
of inefficiency and disruption and
there's career alpha foot here, but
you've got to sort of lean into this big
time. So there's a lot there, but I
maybe just start with your view on the
future of professionalism and you can
take the other side of it, but I look at
the pace of change in the last decade of
my career and as I look out, it's moving
at warp speed and unlike anything I saw
in the first 30 years of my career.
>> I feel very grateful that I'm at the end
of my career and not midcareer or not
start career. I have a great deal of
sympathy for young people today who are
trying to peer into the future. The only
thing I would say is it's ever been
thus. I mean, no one has ever been able
to really start their career out with
certainty as to what's going to happen
in the future. I would agree with you. I
think the pace of change in life in
general for the last 150 years, every
generation it accelerates and it's still
accelerating and I think that's um
concern for young people as to how they
navigate their way through that. In
terms of professionalism, I don't know
who trained that LLM in terms of its
view on professionalism, but it may have
been one of your speeches or one of my
speeches that it's learned that from. I
think we would both say I to that. The
future of professionalism is in using
your powers of judgment and experience
in terms of bringing those to bear on
whatever whether it's data or regulation
or any other field that you seek to get
into. And I think that's really where
professionalism can add value. And
there'd be one other word that I'd build
into that as well, which is trust. The
future of professionalism, if it has to
have a hook, it has to be around trust.
In a world, as we know, where fake news,
AI generated news, fake or not, is
there. I think there's a place for a
professional in terms of the trusted
advisor that a client can have, but
really the theme behind professionalism
is the exercise of human judgment above
and beyond that which AI can usefully
determine. And I think that's another
way of saying you either believe AI is
going to deliver everything that we need
as humans or you believe that AI is
essentially a tool that humans will use
to better run our lives in every aspect
of them, not just in a professional
context. If you veer towards the AI as a
tool, then that helps you see where you
as an individual need to position
yourself. Whether you're interested in
the softer sides of life or the more
datadriven scientific sides of life that
shows you where you can add value is the
bit that you think you can add on to the
top of what that tool can provide for
you.
>> I agree with your concept of trust. It's
such an important word. We are in the
trust business. There's a fiduciary
standard in most countries in most
regulation but in the US and last time I
looked at it I used it as a reference
the definition is pages and pages might
be 100 plus pages long. So that provides
for a lot of gray area for the
professional to work within hide amidst
and I just don't know if that's good for
the end client most days. I just came
back from a two-day conference that
sometimes when you've been around long
enough they ask you to chair because
they think you have intelligent things
to say but I chaired this two-day
conference on private credit which is
now by most estimates a $3 trillion plus
space and the asset gathering is what's
hit the headlines and that's what
everybody is focused on but just to pick
on the mid and back office and even the
use of tools like AI they're nent at
best so if I'm a service provider in
this space this is just uh great field
for them to be going at it because they
can find ways of adding value. But I
think when you're in the asset gathering
mode that moves so quickly that
sometimes we don't take enough pause to
say wait a minute who is my end client
and we realize if we stop it's no longer
the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority it's
now Mr. and Mrs. John Q public and the
sophistication and the expectations and
what defines trust changes by the makeup
of the client on the other end. So I
think we've got this big democratization
move coming along. Regulation is not
caught up. But if you take the
definition of a fiduciary duty down to
its finest point, that trust component
is table stakes even though it's not
necessarily codified. So I think that
does concern me and maybe I'll add one
more thing and turn it over to you. I
have never believed asset management has
been a profession. It is a great
industry but I don't believe it is a
profession but professionalism matters
hugely. And I say it's not a profession
because I'm using accountancy and law
where the founding principles had
professional makeup attached to them.
The Buttonwood agreement 240 some odd
years ago under a tree on Broad Street
in downtown New York was built on
collusion.
There was 20 some odd specialists said
let's only trade with us and let's fix
the commissions and off we went. I give
great credit to bodies that came early
like the CFA Institute and KA and CFP
but it should be mandated that
professionalism matters. It never will
happen in my book. So maybe your views
about where we are in professionalism. I
know it matters hugely to you and your
DNA makeup. How does that fit into the
mix in a rapidly changing world as we
look ahead?
>> It should fit into the mix. I absolutely
agree with you and I've used the term
before that that financial services
world is an industry and not a
profession today. if it is to survive
and I think it fits in with the comments
that we were making about how do you
pilot your career in an AIdriven world.
If it is to survive, it can only survive
really by placing client interest at the
heart of everything that it does. And
that isn't the case today. I freely
[snorts] admit it's certainly not the
case today. We are littered with
examples of asset management companies
who care more about their bottom line.
Asset gathering, price fixing, higher
prices than you're adding value. All of
those features really speak to an
industry that's more interested in
generating its own profits than in
generating returns for its clients. I
was talking only yesterday about this
within an ETF context. If you go into a
active asset management company here in
Hong Kong, we constantly torture
ourselves on what's the right price for
the job that we do. But the starting
point should be if you're an active
manager, strip out fees and look at your
gross investment returns because most
asset managers generate a gross
investment return that's actually better
than an ETF. Why do they fall below the
return of an ETF? because they charge
fees that are in excess of the alpha
that they're actually generating. And
asset management companies don't think
of the problem that way round. The way
that they think about it is how much can
I charge and get away with in the market
place. What's my competitors charging?
where do I fit within a relative matrix
rather than thinking about things in
absolute terms which is how do I deliver
absolute value or have I delivered
absolute value to my clients and then
what's appropriate to charge for that
and I think that's the nub of the
problem that we have is that we don't
look at we don't look at what we do from
a client centric perspective we look at
what we do from our own perspective and
of course that's compounded because most
asset management companies perhaps not
in the alternative world. But most asset
management companies, certainly those of
size, are publicly owned. Their primary
duty, as they see it, is towards their
shareholders rather than towards their
clients. That's a real challenge to us
as we try and talk about
professionalism. The industry that I
think is most obvious for
professionalism should be the medical
profession. That's where it all started
really in my view is when you think
about a professional, it's a doctor. a
doctor, she or he, when we were kids,
you really felt that they had your best
interests at heart. The tragedy of
modern life is that no one goes to a
doctor today with that thought in mind.
You go to a doctor thinking, what drugs
are they trying to sell me and what's
their margin on those drugs? And that's
a real challenge for us in the modern
world is how do we put client centric
values back into most things that we do
in life.
>> It was an important point that you make
on public asset management companies and
Bogle talked about this so eloquently
decades ago about serving two masters.
So conflicts can be okay. It's the life
we live but disclose them. And if the
coin is standing on its side, sometimes
it should lean toward the client. And
when it doesn't, let them know about it.
It's no more complicated than that. And
it's interesting, you talk about
medicine. I use this all the time. I use
a hashtag. Maybe I'm the only one that
tries to get it trending. What would
Hypocrates think? The father of modern
day medicine. These students had to take
a vow about therapeutic nihilism. Not
doing open heart surgery on a
90-year-old cancer patient. You simply
don't do it. And lastly, to really drive
this nail home, I have a concierge
physician and I go to him. His practice
is now owned by private equity. So
there's a Baker scholar from Harvard
sitting in the waiting room figuring out
how to maximize the ROI. And I think I'm
going there for good health advice.
Hopefully the two are the same. In the
US, I don't know if this is true in your
part of the world, Paul. Private equity
is now investing in law firms. I just
don't know what that means in terms of
independence. public accounting firms.
They're making investments. So, is there
a Chinese wall? I hope there is. But
we've got to be very careful. I'm not
saying these things should never ever
happen, but the world is getting more
complicated and more conflicted. And any
profession has to point those conflicts
out.
>> The light at the end of the tunnel may
be to say that you live long enough, you
see everything twice. And maybe this is
a cycle that we're going through, the
collapse of professionalism only to
regenerate professionalism. perhaps long
after you and I are no longer a part of
this conversation. But at some point,
and I think you see this a little bit in
newspapers and news media in general, at
some point trust comes back into the
equation that people don't have time,
even with AI, to sift through all of the
doctors in their area or all of the
lawyers in their area to figure out
who's got the best business model, who's
got the highest ratings, ratings can be
fixed, all of those things. It's not
practical to be able to do that. So, at
some point, I think some of these
businesses do come back to trying to
distinguish themselves by overtly
demonstrating that they're placing
client interests above their own. That
may be many decades in the future, I
confess. But I think if your view of
life is that it is cyclical, hopefully
cycles that end higher up the beach than
the previous cycle. But if you do
believe in cyclicality, then I think
what we're involved in at the moment is
the downswing of the collapse of
professionalism in many walks of life,
which hopefully will lead to its
regeneration in the future. I'm an
amateur historian as you know and
perhaps if you take the view that
history is about human progress rather
than dystopian view that we live today
in the worst of all possible worlds then
you can look to a time when hopefully
professionalism will return.
>> Great framing. I'll leave it there and
maybe turn the page. So at the beginning
of this discussion Paul I mentioned I
think me and I believe you as well.
We're now in the face of our career
where we're doing what we love and
hopefully where we think we can make a
difference. And one of your chosen
missions is sustainability and
sustainable finance. And it's very
interesting topic. It's gotten a lot of
kicking of the dog here in the US for
political reasons as opposed to maybe
fundamental reasons. But if we put that
aside for the moment, as I said, I do
get asked to speak at panels. I
moderated a panel not that long ago and
I had a senior asset allocator from
Thailand, from Switzerland, from the UK
and from one of the states in the 50
United States. And the view is
specifically on climate certainly from
the person in the US versus the other
three were quite divergent. But when you
talk to somebody in Thailand where
climate is an issue on the very shores
of that nation, it comes up in very very
real time. I mean I think anybody
listening to it would say wow maybe
there is something there and I think
some of the challenges if there's
regulation and legislation required
certainly in the US the political will
is 2 or 4 years the time it gets to get
reelected again and then things change
all over again we need a sustainable
lean into this and maybe last point in
this COP 30 sort of went out without
even a banger or whimper I don't know if
many people even knew it was in Brazil
>> went out with a fire.
>> Exactly. It's about the fire. It's like
page five of the bee section of the Wall
Street Journal. So there was no tomb
handed down and this is the principle.
So I think COP 30's lost his way. And I
think as I said at this conference, I
got a chuckle, but I said it maybe less
cynically is that I think the White
House offered to send the janitor down
to Brazil and we had no delegation there
and to at least not be there to listen
to other people that are hopefully know
what they're doing. So anyway, you've
chosen this and I think for good reason.
If I travel outside of the US, the views
on sustainability and climate and
sustainable finance are very different
than you might hear in certain parts of
the US. Why sustainable finance and
maybe your outlook in terms of how
you're going to make a difference and
how we have to as a world make a
difference going forward?
>> I'm actually very optimistic on
sustainability. I think obviously we're
going to miss all of our targets whether
you believe in them or not. The
empirical evidences that the world is
heating up and kind of goes back to one
of our AI themes as well. My biggest
advice to young people is travel because
you can't get everything you need from a
computer. By traveling the world, you do
change your perspective on things. And
the one thing that it absolutely will
overwhelm you if you travel is that
there isn't a country you will land in
where the locals will not tell you that
the weather over the last five or 6
years has been very odd. That's an
empirical fact. I don't care what anyone
says as to why it's happening. It is
empirically obvious that it is happening
and countries around the world are
responding to that including your own.
They're responding to that because
business is more perhaps focused on
reality than regulators are for the
electrical cycle reasons that you
mentioned. And the world is well served
by American companies that are involved
in all sorts of green technology that is
built around generating more climate
friendly power for us all as you go
around the world. That's also very
definitely the case that businesses
taking the lead in developing what we as
a planet are going to need going
forward. The disappointment is that
regulators because they are essentially
political. They're political appointees.
They have to listen to their political
masters. Regulators are subject to
electoral cycles which sometimes go in
their favor and sometimes go against us.
And we're in a poor electoral cycle
phase at the moment. And from a
sustainability perspective, why am I
interested? Because I think the finance
industry has a role to play, a very big
role to play in making sure that it
conducts investment to where we need it
to go. And you don't have to be a
climate messiah to really argue for
that. You just have to be someone who is
thoughtful about where the industries of
the future are going to be and where
profits are going to be generated. And
you can say yes, solar power or wind
power or anything of today is more
expensive than fossil fuel power, but
those prices are coming down. And I
believe as we continue to invest in
battery technology, storage technology,
all those ancillary technology that
you'll find that the cost of actually
digging stuff out of the ground is more
expensive than the green solutions.
That's where I think we're headed.
That's where business is pushing us. I
think regulators will eventually catch
up. As you travel the world, you know
that there are climate related
challenges. Whether they're man-made or
just the turning of the heavens and it's
our turn to go into a mini ice age like
we did back in the 17th century. I don't
know. I'm not clever enough. I'm not
enough of a scientist to know what's
causing it. But I do know it's
happening. And here in Asia, just to
sort of underscore the point about
travel, I don't know what you hear in
the US, but 500 people were killed in
Sumatra by flooding in the last month.
Several hundred people in Sri Lanka have
died through flooding in the last month.
These things are very real. If you come
to Asia, you cannot but know that
climate change is happening all around
us and that we need to respond to that
because it's not going to go away
anytime soon. Irrespective of who's
actually causing it, we need to deal
with it. That's kind of my interest in
it. It's very personal. As I say, I'm
not messianic about the reasons behind
it. I am messianic about the fact that
there's huge business opportunity there
and that finance has a role to play in
making the technologies that I believe
we need as a planet cheaper and better
and more accessible for everybody. I
think that's going to happen.
>> Well, I'm glad you've picked that mantle
up. So, if we're going to solve for
climate, you've got to have certain
sovereigns at the table, not the least
of which is mainland China. It's
interesting because they're a
command-based economy. And well, they
may or may not have showed up for COP
30. I'm not even sure, but there's
probably a lot going on as it relates to
climate in China. Maybe more for the
good than the bad that people might not
be aware of. So, you can run with that.
And then maybe since you're right there
in Hong Kong, maybe your outlook and
impact on China's economy and what it
means to the rest of the world. It's a
great comment on China and
sustainability because people do
misunderstand. There's no country on the
planet that is more committed to green
technologies than China. And I'll give
you a sort of a personal anecdote. Here
in Hong Kong 15 years ago, we moaned
about our pollution in Hong Kong. People
did studies on it and most of our
pollution blew in from factories in
southern China. The amusing fact there
is that most of those factories in
southern China were actually owned by
Hong Kong businessmen. By the way,
that's not to demonize China in that
regard, but that was where our pollution
was. Now, we all go shopping in a town
called Shenzen, which is just over the
border in mainland China from Hong Kong.
We all go shopping there, but everybody
comes back and says the air quality in
Shenzen is far better than the air
quality in Hong Kong. Why? Because China
is almost 100% electric vehicles apart
from anything else. Everybody knows one
thing about China is that it's making
electric vehicles and depending on your
perspective selling those to the rest of
the world at knockdown prices. But
they've also bought them all themselves.
And so the air quality in China today is
vastly better than it is in Hong Kong
where although we're a small country, we
failed to take gas guzzling cars off our
roads. That's a measure if you like a
personal anecdotal measure goes back to
my theme about travel is to show you
that in China air quality is improving
rapidly. Now they have huge problems
because like India a lot of their power
is still generated by fossil fuels and
that's something that they're gradually
weaning themselves off. But the one
thing I can tell you about the Chinese
is they will get there and they are
determined to get there. But they look
at things in a more transitionary way
than perhaps some of the people who like
to beat China up look at them and they
want to push China to go further and
faster than the Chinese can because
needless to say the fossil fuel industry
is also a huge employer in China as well
as a generator of electricity. The
Chinese will get there. They are still
increasing its true fossil fuel
consumption. So they're still burning
dirty coal, but they do intend it's part
of their planning to get off that as
soon as they practically can. I'm, you
know, a big bull on China as far as
that's concerned. In terms of in
general, I think the light motif of the
rest of our life, Bill, is the clash
between America and China, which is
essentially a trade war. It's going to
blow hot and cold. For what it's worth,
I think we're going into a cold phase.
My reading of the tea leaves is that
America and China right now are trying
to find a modus vivende that will see us
through the next three or four years. So
I'm quite positive and straws in the
wind there are you've got lots of
American companies who kind of gave up
on this part of the world fund
management companies who gave up on this
part of the world a year or so ago and
out back. Hong Kong is quite busy at the
moment with visitors who are coming
through Hong Kong on their way to China
and trying to reconnect with what's
going on on the mainland. So, we're
edging towards a compromise. But for the
rest of our lives, we have to accept
that what we've got here is a rising
China and a defensive US. And that is
only going to lead to continuous clashes
for the rest of our lives really. And
that's something that we have to be
ready for and respond to in the right
way. China is going to need at least a
generation before it moves from being a
productionbased economy towards being
more of a balanced consumerdriven
economy. That's going to take a long
while. And whilst that happens, there
are going to be these challenges that
from a western perspective, we're going
to be accusing China of state subsidies
and dumping goods on us and destroying
our industry. From a Chinese
perspective, they look upon that as the
West trying to keep them down and to
prevent China from fulfilling its
destiny. That light motif, if you like,
is going to be with us. But think about
it not in terms of a class of
civilizational values. Think of it more
in mercantile terms in that what this is
is an industrial challenge. Who is going
to trade with whom and in what goods and
how are we going to try and find the
balance there. I was reading a great
article the other day which I think is
right is where China is today is that
China wants to manufacture everything.
That's a problem because it can't
actually trade with the rest of the
world if it doesn't want to buy anything
from the rest of the world. Goes back to
sort of Adam Smith. The whole purpose of
international trade is that you sell me
something that I want and in return for
that I pay for it with something that
you want. And at the moment the
challenge is that China's national
security interests are that they want to
manufacture everything but at the same
time they want to sell all of those
goods to the rest of the world. That's
an unsustainable future obviously and
that is going to have to be amended but
goes back to our theme of this
conversation. It can't be amended unless
there's trust on both sides. And
obviously trust has broken down between
China and America and also between China
and Europe. So we're finding it very
hard to have mature intelligent
conversations around how we can help
China grow and [clears throat] reach its
potential and at the same time build
sustainable economies in the west that
are going to thrive as China rises.
rather than seeing this as a zero sum
game, which is unfortunately the way
that we talk about it today.
>> Appreciate all that insight, Paul. Maybe
a final question somewhat related to all
of this is throughout my life personally
and professionally, I've always tried to
be an optimist. I don't like pessimists.
They're usually wrong. Maybe they're
right in the short term. Longer term,
usually optimism wins out. But I do
think about, and maybe because as I get
older, what kind of skunk could show up
at this economic picnic? And there's two
things that worry me. One is inflation
and the size of debts and deficits and
the percent of those as it relates to
GDP just don't seem to be sustainable.
So that's one. But then the other and
this is what I was thinking about when I
was listening to your assessment of
China is demographics. I don't know if
enough people think about it. Maybe I
worry about it too much. I'm at the tail
end of the baby boomers here in the US
and I sit back and say, "Who's going to
buy all of our stuff? Do they want the
big houses? Is there enough people to
buy the big houses? How crowded is that
window going to be when all of these
baby boomers are putting things on the
table at the same time? And you probably
are closest to seeing this a little bit
live in real time because the
demographics in India are awesome. China
not so much and probably even less so in
Japan. So what is your take from where
you sit in Hong Kong? We could put aside
inflation because we don't have enough
time to get to that, but maybe just
stick with demographics. How big of a
worry should that be?
>> I think obviously a huge positive as far
as the planet is concerned. If we can go
from 9 and a half billion to seven
billion over the next 50 or so years,
which some demographers think is the
likely arc, then I think that's hugely
positive for the planet. But for
individual countries within that, it is
going to present relative issues for
them. And obviously, China is the poster
child for that. The Chinese population
is falling and will probably continue to
fall for the rest of this century. That
will give China a relative value issue
if you like in terms of its status
within the world. But it's positive for
the world in general. Will we
economically be able to replace the
factors of growth that population
increase provides that multiplier
effect? But I suspect it will. Japan is
still growing although its demography is
appalling. Italy is still growing
although its demography is terrible as
well. Countries do find a way of living
with aging. I think Japan and Italy are
two countries that can teach China and
other countries that are faced with that
a lot of the benefits that come from a
shrinking population. But obviously you
don't necessarily want to own real
estate, certainly not private real
estate in situations where there are
going to be fewer buyers for it. So it's
going to be pockets of challenge. But
overall, it's a positive that we're in a
resource constrained place where the
resources that we have are going to go
further because there are going to be
fewer mouths to feed.
>> I agree with that.
Maybe AI solves some of this. But I
think also the sovereign has got to be
thinking back to the early part of this
conversation, upskilling and training
because there are a lot of individuals
that are in jobs today that may be gone
5 years from now, but they could be
viable and contributing factors to their
family and to the economy as well, but
it's not going to happen without some
form of intervention. And some
industries are just going to get
disrupt. I was at a funeral today for a
90-year-old who lived a couple blocks
away from me. Didn't know him well.
lived a full life and I just wanted to
pay my respects. And as I looked around
the church, the priests and the
undertakers all were older than me. And
I don't know who's going into
professions like that. So there may be
some professions are just going to have
to rethink how this model is going to
work full stop, but it's going to be
interesting. And I think once it gets
sorted out, you and I will have gone to
a better place perhaps too. But I think
being vocal and contributing, asking why
and raising questions is part of what
you and I have done the entirety of our
careers. And I think if enough of us can
continue to do that, I am an optimist
and things will work out.
>> One of the places we haven't talked
about is the emerging world and Africa
in particular. And if I was to voice my
biggest fear, it's that Africa's
population obviously is exploding. I
can't remember what the numbers are, but
it's over the next 50 years, it's going
to grow very quickly and generate a lot
of young people who have very little
economic future as the world stands
today. And even more worrying as far as
I'm concerned are going to be divided
from the developed country by
technology. Now you can look at that and
say well technology will help them
accelerate their development as people
and as countries and I hope that's the
way it works out or you can be a little
bit more negative about that and say
technology is going to keep those
emerging people if you like the next
generation of Africans down because
they're just not going to be able to
bridge that divide and they're going to
become almost secondass citizens in a
world that has spun past them to such an
extent that they're never going to catch
up. I think from a purely European
perspective, that is such an interesting
question. I mean, we have a president of
the United States who's pointing out
civilizational collapse in Europe under
the pressures of uncontrolled
immigration. And whilst I wouldn't agree
with the way that he's necessarily
painting that picture, what he is
pointing out is that Africa is on
Europe's doorstep. There is nothing we
can do about that. Geographically,
Africa and Europe are separated by a
very very narrow straight and through
the Middle East are actually pretty much
connected. If we cannot give young
Africans a reason to stay in Africa,
they are coming to Europe. And it
doesn't matter what our immigration
policies are, they aren't going to come
because they have no alternative. They
have no choice. And we will be
overwhelmed by that inward immigration
if we cannot give Africans a reason to
live in Africa. Going back to your
comments about why I'm interested in
sustainability and all of these things,
for me that's the biggest challenge that
I face as a European, albeit one who
lives in the Far East, is how do we help
Africa grow and develop? and it's just
not a subject of much conversation, but
I think it's the biggest challenge that
we face arguably globally today.
>> It's an excellent point and I'm glad you
raised it. Like most things in life,
there's two sides to the coin. And yes,
we need to provide these folks a reason
to stay, but sensible opportunities to
leave as well. And if you look at the
United States, it was founded on an
immigration principle. It was a brand
new country owned by the Indians and
they were displaced when people
immigrated in. And maybe there's a
second wave of that where if we have an
aging demographic base in the US, we
need more qualified younger folks coming
in. The best means to that end is having
a sensible immigration policy where
you're providing opportunity to folks
that want to come in but providing
better outcomes for our local economy
and the global economy as well. So I
think it is an important aspect and
touches sustainability as well that no
matter what happens the G20 countries
just turn up the AC when it gets hotter.
But the damage that's being done to
those emerging market countries and our
level of responsibility to that that's
another debate that we can have but to
recognize or to state that we have no
responsibility whatsoever for that is
shortsighted. I don't know what the
answer is, but it's got to begin with a
discussion and a reasonable debate. The
solution is going to be a compromise.
Somebody's going to have to compromise
or both sides going to have to
compromise to find a reasonable outcome
that we can all live with. And here live
maybe with a capital L because we are
talking about lives at risk.
>> Well said, Bill.
>> Paul, thank you for joining me on what
is my final episode in the Kaya
platform. I may find a home for this
going forward, but if not, my curiosity,
like yours, will be taken elsewhere, but
now the listeners will know why I chose
you as this final episode. I know the
way you think, but I learned a lot from
listening to you this evening, and I
know our listeners will as well. So,
thanks for joining me. I wish you and
Beth a safe holiday season, and
hopefully I'll see you in the course of
my less travels. I used to fill up a
passport every year. I did not leave the
United States in the entire calendar
year of 2025, but that too shall change.
>> Thank you, Bill. It's been a real
pleasure and good luck going forward. I
know you'll continue to live a very
valuable and contributory life. So, I
look forward to following your career in
the future and hopefully [music] see you
soon.
>> Thank you, Paul.
>> Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association [music]
and subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's caia.org.
[music] See you next time.
