Hello and welcome um to today's
investment foundation certificate live
learning webinar. This session is on
understanding the economics of the
international trade. I'm delighted to
introduce Asmi. He's our instructor for
today. ASME is a CFA charter holder. He
is a senior director of content
development in the professional learning
division at CFA Institute. Uh thank you
very much Katherine and um welcome
everyone and thank you for attending
this uh this this webinar. Um the
material that we'll cover today is
actually part of the investment
foundations uh certificate offered by
the CFA institute. So as I said earlier
uh the material that we'll cover today
is part of the investment foundation's
uh certificate um whose goal is to
provide a comprehensive overview of
investment industry and its structure
function and role in global capital
markets and society. If you do sign up
for the IFC um you will have an
opportunity to learn uh real tangible
knowledge of the fundamentals of the
investment management industry and also
have a framework to better understand
solve and communicate solutions for
complex issues. In terms of the course
structure of um
uh the uh the investment foundation
certificate um there are six uh courses
and um uh one is industry overview and
structure. What do investment managers
do? Uh where what is their place within
the financial services um ecosystem? Uh
types and functioning of markets is
course two investment instruments. And
then course four investment inputs and
tools is where you would cover um
economics economic analysis alongside
various other tools of making investment
decisions. Um and then s course five is
how um investment managers serve their
clients and course six is how investment
management um and good practices by
those who work in investment management
can help serve for the greater good.
Let's begin with our topic. What are
barriers to international trade? Um they
have it in the news almost nonstop uh
for at least a few months now. And um if
we take a look at the definition by the
World Trade Organization,
WTO um which is um the international
organization for importing and exporting
and international trade. Um there are
two types of barriers. You got tariff
barriers and you got non-tariff
barriers. As a general category, the
easier one is a tariff barrier, which is
a tax that is imposed on imports, goods
coming into your country, which would
make them more expensive and unfavorably
priced compared to domestic goods and
services. Now, those tariffs can be
imposed on all imports. They could also
be specific tariffs on certain types of
goods and services.
So you could impose u tariffs for
example on beef, tariffs on poultry. You
can impose tariffs on let's say
computers or cars. Um and typically
these are aimed at um protecting the
producers, the domestic producers of
those goods and services or they could
be tariffs that are imposed on only
certain countries.
And the other type of barrier to
international trade is um non-tariff
barrier and there are various categories
within that. So those could be import
quotas
and what are import quotas effectively
saying look we are going to impose a
quot of 100,000 electric cars coming
into um the UK this year um no more than
that. Another interesting one is a
subsidy which is not really directly a
barrier to international trade, but it
is when um your government
provides incentives and subsidies and
additional payments to local providers
of goods and services. Another example
of um a non-tariff barrier is a local
content requirement requiring that a
certain percentage of goods and services
are made um domestically. A fourth one
is anti-dumping
policies. So first to talk about
anti-dumping policies we need to talk
about what we mean by dumping uh as an
economic term. So this is when um a
country is typically providing subsidies
or other incentives to exporters of a
particular good or a service that
enables them to sell that good or
service at below cost
to export that service at below cost uh
to other um other countries. And the
thinking behind that is um you want to
get your foot in the door in that new
market. You want to uh perhaps kill off
um an emerging industry in that market.
And therefore many countries will have
anti-dumping policies which will prevent
um imports um inbound goods at below
cost. The question of course is how do
you determine whether the cost at which
a good or service being is offered uh is
being offered is below cost and whether
that is a dumping policy that's that's
very difficult to determine. So let's
talk about some of the um
uh some of the proposals. Um yeah uh
first there is a 10% universal tariff.
So from now on, no matter which country
is um uh exporting goods into um into
the United States, the proposal is there
will be a minimum 10% tariff. Um and on
top of that, there is the proposal of an
additional 60% tariff on goods and
services coming in from China. So this
is not uh 10% plus another 50. this is
actually 10% plus another another 60%.
Um which would effectively make um you
know many of those goods and services
unaffordable. Another uh uh proposal is
a 25% tariff on Mexico and uh Canada uh
which would be against uh the United
States, Mexico and Canada agreements
which was previously known as NAFTA.
North American Free Trade Agreement
which is now being referred to as United
States, Mexico and Canada agreement.
This 25% tariff is being proposed
because the US MCA is up for revision in
2026.
And the thinking is that the
administration will use this as an
opportunity to seek terms that are more
favorable for the US and also address
issues such as trade deficits, imbalance
of exports and imports between the US
and the other um parties to the USMCA,
namely Canada and um and Mexico and also
address issues such as imbalances in
terms of labor standards um and
manufacturing incentives. Another
proposal is by American policy. So the
proposal is that federal agencies will
be required to favor US-made products
and services in procurement. Another
proposal is um uh stricter regulations.
So critical technologies like artificial
intelligence, semiconductors and uh and
so on may be required to be domestically
produced to prevent technology transfer.
Um there are proposals for requirements
of strict uh or much stricter supply
chain compliance measures. So why are
all these proposals there? Um perhaps we
need to take a step back and uh look at
the history of that. As you can probably
see on the screen, I'm I'm I'm not a
spring chicken anymore, so I'm I'm
giving on a bit. And when I was at
university, we were very much taught the
economic orthodoxy.
Um, and you major proponent of that is
the Nobel Prizeinning uh famous
economist uh the late Milton Friedman
among many others of course. And there
was very very broad support for free
trade policies. The thinking back in
those days was all free trade is good.
Free trade is always a net win for all
parties. Um NAFTA was um when I was at
university, NAFTA was in its infancy,
the North American Free Trade Agreement.
and um anybody who opposed NAFTA that it
would lead to job losses or certain
industries being gone for good and so on
uh were seen were being labeled as being
a bit naive and uh they're saying well
but we we stand to gain so much from
this and so on. The underlying principle
for that was the principle of
comparative advantage. Which is to say
if you take a look at any pair of
countries uh and any two goods, there
will be one country that has a
comparative advantage in making one good
and another company therefore will have
a comparative advantage in making the
other good. And there was faith in the
free market systems in that nobody would
try to cheat the system. uh there would
be no uh dumping policies or unfair uh
subsidies by countries and so on. So the
free markets would function perfectly
and there was going to be a net benefit
to consumers. So fine there might be
some unemployment in certain industries
and so on but the markets will adjust
themselves. Um yeah, for every citrus
farmer that um uh loses um their job and
livelihood, there will be the
opportunity uh in Canada for maybe two
or three um uh positions uh in uh in
making maples here. That was the uh that
was the thinking at the time. And I
think everybody now recognizes that um
whilst there is some truth to this. Um
it is a bit naive and whilst there are
winners to removing international trade
barriers, there are also losers. Um so
right now if you uh if you are studying
economics at university right now if you
are doing the IFC right now the
investment foundation certificate um for
the most part you will be seeing a more
nuanced view on trade barriers and among
economists um that are promot proponents
of more nuance views on uh free trade
and removal of international barriers
and so on um are Peter Navara from
Universal of California and Irvine. The
thinking here is yes, free trade is
good, but perhaps you do need to
safeguard key industries. What are
examples of key industries? Well, there
is something to be said about food
security.
You don't necessarily want to be reliant
on another country to feed your
population. Now that doesn't necessarily
mean that for example I live in the
United Kingdom that doesn't necessarily
mean that we need to start producing our
own bananas and we need to start
producing our own mangoes. I mean good
luck with that in our environment but it
does mean that we need to protect key
sectors for example you know in our case
it would be um uh grains uh barley wheat
and oats and so on uh to make sure that
there's food security. Um defense would
be another uh key sector that you want
to protect at all cost and there may
well be other key strategic industries.
The other reason for having some
barriers to um uh completely free trade
may be to foster emerging sectors and um
many emerging countries have done this
very very successfully. Another argument
is to promote job creation and social
unity. Uh if we go back to the whole
citrus and maple syrup example in US and
Canada, you will certainly see some of
the the the some of the policies of this
argument. Uh I mean if we take a look at
the United States, whereabouts is citrus
produced? So California and Florida. And
whereabouts in the United States do they
make maple syrup? Well, not Florida and
not California. So, you know, we're
talking about Vermont, uh, you know,
Maine, those types of places. So, you
know, if you are um producing citrus
fruit, you can't really very easily just
switch to producing maple syrup or the
other way around. The reallocation of
resources, finding jobs, new jobs for
people who have lost their jobs, finding
uh new occupations for people is not as
easy as economic orthodoxy makes it
sound. That there is faith in free
market systems and anybody who's out of
a job will immediately find another job
because, you know, they can move from
Florida to Vermont or from Vermont to
Florida at the drop of a hat. Doesn't
really doesn't really work that way. And
what we have seen is with some of the
industries that were killed off as a
result of free trade, there are
generations and generations of people uh
who have been out of jobs and there is
all sorts of social problems and so on
that that has brought uh about. So you
know there is the importance of
protecting jobs and maintain social
cohesion even if that means implementing
selective protectionist measures. And um
uh a final argument that is perhaps
worth uh mentioning is um equitable
trade. So the idea right now is there
has to be a more measured application of
free trade principles. Um and we do need
to take into account um things like
environmental standards, labor rights
likewise and also um fair competition
and um uh making sure that there is um
uh there is sustainable um sustainable
development. The last bit here is um
access for me but not the um is an
interesting one. So what you will see a
lot of times is when big economies like
or big markets like the European Union
or the United States talk about imposing
barriers to trade. Um the countries that
stand to lose most from that more often
than not are countries that are very
very protectionist themselves.
So those countries will want access to
US without uh any barriers, without any
tariffs. They will want access to the
European Union but they will not
necessarily provide the same level of
access to American companies or European
companies uh in their uh in their home
markets. What what does the evidence
say? So there is evidence of um a
correlation not a very strong
correlation but a correlation
nonetheless between poverty reduction
and trade participation. What we see is
in relatively poorer economies, the
poverty headcount ratio of effectively
people living on less than $2.15 a day
based on 2017 prices adjusted for 2017
as a percentage of population.
And um on the uh on the sort of greenish
yellow line you see exports of goods and
services as a percentage of global
exports. So the more a country is able
to access foreign markets by
participating in international trade and
of course if you want to be able to
export you also have to let others
import into your country. um the more
reduction there is uh in uh in poverty.
But you will also see that if you take a
look at the last decade or so,
that correlation is not quite as strong
as it was in the uh in the '9s and the
early 2000s. The the other interesting
chart is evidence that perhaps not
everybody wins from uh free trade. So uh
in the blue line you are seeing rust
belt states. These are the traditional
industrial areas of the United States uh
which I mentioned before. So areas like
um uh Michigan uh Pennsylvania and so
on, Ohio, Indiana. So areas where there
was a lot of industrial production um
traditionally
um and what we are seeing is that there
is a marked drop since the 1970s
in the proportion of US exports that are
produced in those rustfeld states. you
know to counterbalance that if you take
a look at southern states which are
focusing on different industries even
within the United States you can see
that um not everybody wins equally from
free trade. Certain states have won more
than than others as a result of um you
know free trade agreements and uh
international trade barriers uh being
removed.
