[Music]
Hello and welcome to the Enterprising
Investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahberg and I'm joined today by Chris
Shipley. Chris is a senior vice
president and co-chief investment
officer of Fort Washington Investment
Adviserss where he oversees about $90
billion in client assets. Prior to Fort
Washington, Chris spent 23 years at
Northern Trust Asset Management in
Chicago, where he headed up both
fundamental equities and strategy at
different points along the way. He joins
me from Cincinnati today to share his
views on the curious case of US equities
in 2025. Welcome to the show, Chris.
Thanks for having me. Great to be here.
>> So, Chris, my my my intro was a bit
tongue and cheek, but it has been both a
bumpy and at times confusing, I say,
ride for US equities this year. Uh let's
start with the tensions in the Middle
East, something US stocks have largely
shrugged off. Why do you think that is?
>> Yeah, it's a good question and one where
I think we found ourselves in this
position many times over the last 20
years of wondering why US equities are
not reacting more to what's happened in
the Middle East. But it feels like we've
really been conditioned over that period
of time to focus predominantly on the
transmission mechanism back to the US
economy, which is oil prices. And of
course over that time as the US economy
has become more and more
servicesoriented
the level of the oil price has mattered
less and our access to oil is far less
dependent on the Middle East now that we
have much something much closer to
energy independence. And so ultimately
when we look at what's been happening in
the Middle East, I think it's fair to
say that the US market has responded
rationally in recognizing that the
economic implications or the
implications on corporate profits are
going to be relatively modest from
what's been transpiring so long as it
remains confined to the region. Specific
to this example, I think when we look at
the optionality for Iran from a response
perspective to what's been transpiring,
their options are limited. And the
concern is that they might block the
Straits of Hormuz is really not on the
table when you consider that something
like 45% of China's oil flows through
the straits and with China as an ally,
they would really be hurting an ally far
more than they would be hurting the
United States or others in the West. So
ultimately, I think the market very
quickly sniffed out that this would not
be a significant uh macroeconomic event
for the United States or for much of the
world. And as a result, it did not have
a meaningful impact on asset prices.
>> Right. And and as of today, we're at uh
July 8th, we're recording here. Um we're
we're still in ceasefire zone. How do
you how do you see that playing out? You
think that ceasefire sticks or or where
do we go from here?
>> Yeah, hard to say. And and I I won't
profess to be an expert on on Middle
East politics or or the likely outcomes
there, but I do think it's fair to say
that Iran really didn't have an option
other than a ceasefire given that the
vast majority of their defense systems
were taken down. And so it was in their
best interest to call a ceasefire
because anything they could do
offensively was limited and anything
they had defensively was largely put out
of service. So the question ultimately
will be whether or not they are using
this as an opportunity to regroup and
rebuild and rearm or if this is a
genuine ceasefire. But I think as we
learn that over time I think it's fair
to say that again the market is going to
be predominantly focused on that that
transmission mechanism which is oil
prices.
>> Yeah. And it's it's interesting. I I
pulled the oil price up here just to go
back a year or so and it is quite
remarkable. I mean, we definitely had,
you know, the Israel attacked Iran June
13th. Um, and it spike it spiked to its
high just under 74 bucks June 19th. And
then the US strikes on June 22nd and the
24th was the ceasefire. It it it bumped
back down again as low as just under 65
bucks and it's sitting around $68 today.
So that at those levels, we're kind of
in the range and actually lower than we
were for most of 2024. So it really has,
you know, to your point about energy
independence, even the even the oil
price hasn't doesn't really matter
anymore with with fracking in the US and
and the exposure there and very little
trade between US and these countries.
It's quite remarkable. So another trend
you you've identified is the the
underperformance of US equities versus
the rest of the world this year. What do
what do you see as as the key drivers
there, Chris? So there there's a few
factors at play, but I think that if you
go back to the immediate aftermath of
this trade conflict that was initiated
by the United States, it's fair to say
that we had a bit of a sell America
trade where you saw a weakening of
equities, you saw a weakening of bonds,
and you saw a weakening of the US
dollar. And that's a pretty unusual
situation for those things all to be
happening together, particularly for a
country that has the reserve currency
like the United States. Uh-huh.
>> And so ultimately when we look through
that lens and look at what was
occurring, it was not shocking
necessarily to see that outcome. But
when you think about the real
implications of this and the other
factors that were leading into this,
which include the negative sentiment
toward growth stocks in the wake of what
was happening with the announcement out
of DeepSeek on the back of two very
strong years of outperformance of the US
market as it relates to the MAG7
contribution and the 25% back-to-back
gains we saw in the United States, we
really had a bit of a rotation going on
out of growth and into value. And it's
important to remember that when you
compare the United States to the rest of
the world, and I'll use Europe as an
example, you're really not just
comparing different regional exposures,
you're comparing different factor
exposures, specifically growth versus
value. So when you look at the United
States today, it's 32% tech, whereas the
MCI Europe is more like 7%. And if you
take tech and comm services together,
you're north of 40% of the US market and
more like 11% in Europe. And I think we
could argue that the US communication
services sector is much closer to real
tech than what you have in Europe.
Whereas you look at the other side of
the coin, you have financials
industrials which are together maybe 23%
of the S&P but over 40% of the MSEI
Europe. Even the Russell 1000 value
index within the US has more tech than
the Msei Europe index. And so again,
when you compare the S&P 500 to Europe,
you're really comparing growth to value.
These are all multinational companies
selling products around the world. But
the US is where the tech is and it's
where the growth is more broadly. So
when we say that the US is either
outperforming or underperforming or if
we look at it on a valuation basis and
we say that the US is currently trading
on a PE basis at a better than 50%
premium to Europe which is significantly
above its 10-year median premium that it
carries at more like 25%. What we're
really saying is that growth is
expensive to value. And you can see that
when you look at the Russell 1000 value,
which again looks much more like Europe
in terms of its sectoral composition,
that index is trading at maybe a 10%
premium to its long-term average
relative to Europe. So, it's really not
that the US is expensive per se as a
result of it being the US. It's really
the mega cap tech trade that's expensive
because the Russell 1000 value isn't
expensive versus its own history. Even
the eco weighted S&P 500 isn't that
expensive versus its own history. It's
really been a story of the increasing
dominance of mega cap tag within the S&P
and the influence that that's had on the
relative performance as growth goes in
and out of favor depending on market
sentiment.
>> Right. And and having yields backing up
this year hasn't really helped helped
that trade. Right. I mean you you always
see value outperform when when when
yields are higher.
>> Correct. Yeah. Because growth stocks are
the long duration equities.
>> Exactly. So those those further out for
the for those on on the on the podcast
that that aren't familiar. Yeah. The
further out you have to discount those
cash flows back uh the more expensive it
becomes when when yields are higher. So
so you take it on the chin when in
growth in these periods. And you've seen
these, you know, this happen throughout
various different cycles in the last, I
would say the four last sort of 15
years, but really it's really been only
happening a couple of times in the last
5 years really where you saw uh value
kind of get a little bit of a run and
part of the help from that was was from
uh rates rates rising on the back of
inflation uh concerns there. Um which
actually gives me a good segue here now
that I think about it. I do want to talk
about tariffs. I want to talk I want to
talk about inflation. I want
>> Everybody wants to talk about tariffs.
Yeah, let's talk about tariffs. I mean,
you you know, you know, Chris, I'm
sitting here in Vancouver. Tariffs h
have been a very large and then, you
know, a much less right now, knock on
wood, of a topic in Canada after the
reversals from early April uh on
Canadian goods or or on some of them
anyways. But, uh we've seen these rapid
policy changes causing some whiplash in
both economist models and and in the
markets as well. So, let's talk growth
and inflation. What are you thinking
about tariffs there as you look at Fort
Washington's US equities or or elsewhere
in the portfolio? What where do you see
that? How do you see that transmitting
through through markets and your
portfolio?
>> Yeah, sure. So it's it's clearly been a
bit of a wild ride as you've noted on
the tariff front and obviously
liberation day included a far more
draconian set of tariffs than the market
had been bracing for which if
implemented as outlined would have
undoubtedly had a very material negative
economic consequence on not just the US
but candidly global economies.
Therefore, the degree to which we saw
the market pull back in our view wasn't
irrational, particularly since given the
starting point of valuations where the
market was, even at the lows that we got
to, we were still pricing in less than a
50% chance of a substantive recession.
In other words, the market was applying
a base case that did include a material
scaling back of the tariffs versus
originally articulated back on April
2nd, even at the market lows. Now the
subsequent delayed implementation which
has now been extended all the way out to
August 1st and possibly beyond that.
>> You had a dialing back of the rhetoric.
You also had the courts in the US
questioning the president's ability to
implement these broad-based tariffs
under the emergency authorization.
And that's given the market far more
confidence that again these base case
odds of a significant scaling back were
improving allowing for the the beginning
of a recovery in stocks. And now, of
course, we have at fresh all-time highs
here where the market has really taken
even a bad case scenario off the table,
let alone that worst case. But it's been
interesting to watch some of the the
developments, including the deal with
Vietnam where I think 20% was higher
than I think most would have assumed
given the importance that they're likely
to play in moving productive capacity
away from China. And you've subsequently
had the threats to Japan and South Korea
of 25% beginning August 1st, clearly
designed to bring them to the
negotiating table. But all the while,
you've had Treasury Secretary Besson,
which continues to speak to tariff
revenue of around 300 billion annually,
which is only 10% on our import run rate
of just over three trillion. So some
countries will be higher. China,
apparently Vietnam, maybe Canada and
Mexico end up in far better shape. But
ultimately, if we're looking at this as
a 10% tariff, that does seem pretty
manageable. And from the US perspective,
could actually be the sweet spot of
generating substantial revenue with
minimal economic consequences. When you
do the math on it and you kind of play
it out and you look at US GDP north of
$30 trillion, you've got imports that
are thus roughly 10% of GDP. So if you
had a 10% trade weighted tariff, that's
less than 1% of GDP. And that impact is
mitigated to the end to the end
consumer. If that tariff ultimately ends
up being shared amongst the exporter,
the importer and then ultimately the
consumer. And if you take that 10%, you
divide it by three and you say that each
are going to take roughly 3%. That's not
going to be overly consequential to
consumer spending, inflation, or even
corporate margin. So in other words, I
think the market is more or less sniff
this out again and become comfortable
with the pathway from here. It's not to
say that it's not going to be a bumpy
ride for a bit, but I think that the
destination at the end of that ride
seems pretty manageable. The biggest
concern I think I have at this point is
that the court decision does weaken the
bargaining position of the US and some
countries may choose to wait out the
legal proceedings in the US before
offering major concessions and those
court proceedings presumably won't be
wrapped up by August 1st suggesting that
we could see higher tariffs for some at
least for some period of time and that
could spook markets and and again hit
corporate and consumer confidence which
are somewhat fragile just given all the
volatility this year. Yeah, I guess that
that really puts uh the US in a bit of a
you know an impaired bargaining position
really with uh with that risk sort of
being out there.
>> Yeah, I think that's right. Um but
again, I think when we look at some of
the deals that have been transpiring, I
it does seem as if they're even coming
in a bit higher than we would have
expected even from that somewhat
weakened bargaining position. So, we'll
have to see how this plays out, but I
think ultimately the market is right in
assuming that this is not going to be
overly consequential. But again, that
presupposes that again that that the
president is not truly intent on
reshaping global manufacturing and
redomiciling productive capacity to the
US or pushing it into friendlier hands
because at the end of the day,
relatively small tariffs or small tariff
differentials between countries are
unlikely to serve as a sufficient stick
to really encourage a dramatic re
reorientation of one's sourcing or
manufacturing. particularly if you think
that the next administration isn't going
to share that philosophy or at least
share it with the same enthusiasm.
>> Right. So, so given this I mean the
implications again sort of coming from
the Canadian view and then just looking
outside of the US the a lot of the the
pain there was you know there's a lot of
pain in the US markets in post April 2nd
but you the the the impact on the ground
for for the rest of the world will be
different right so if you have a large
exporting nation like Canada or other
other big you know big exporters around
like like like Vietnam sort of the the
implications for them uh are different
uh it's it's a it's a bigger impact on
them I guess is what I'm trying to say
than kind of 10% of GDP. So so how do
you think about about that in terms of
your global equity exposure? Um h how is
this reflecting you know being reflected
in global markets at this viewpoint and
and and is is this affecting your your
allocation decisions within Fort
Washington? Like how whether how
attractive I guess is a long way of
asking how attractive is global relative
to us um as as this sort of works its
way out. Yeah, we've certainly been more
heavily weighted toward the United
States and I would say that the recent
underperformance that we've seen only
solidifies that view for us. Ultimately,
I think that there's going to be a fair
number of people that look at the
outperformance of areas like Europe and
ultimately look at what they own by
shifting capital away from the United
States and start to ask themselves why
they're there. And candidly, when you
look at the US market versus Europe,
again, the US market cap is something
like five or 6x that of Europe. And so,
it doesn't take a dramatic amount of
capital moving out of the United States
into some of these other regions to have
a pretty dramatic impact on performance.
And so, ultimately, my suspicion is is
that there will be a growing
appreciation again for the growth
opportunity in the United States,
particularly as you contemplate the
implications of AI and how that's going
to play through in the in the global
economy in the coming years. So, we
still have a positive outlook toward the
United States. I would say that the
point that you make on these other
exporting nations and the potential
challenges that they have, there was an
article in the South China Morning Post
talking about how Walmart and other
large retailers are trying to get the
exporters in China to take 50 to to two
to 50% to 2/3 of the tariff on
themselves. And so, the US does have a
pretty strong bargaining position uh
from that respect. So ultimately, I do
think that there's going to be some pain
felt around the world and the US will
feel some, but I still think that the
long-term opportunities in the United
States are are better than we see in
many other parts of the world.
>> Yeah, fair point. I I'm I'm just looking
at the uh at the yields now, Chris,
thinking about this from yesterday. Uh
Trump announced yesterday, so July 7th
was yesterday. Um this extension to
August 1st, um some updates on trade
trade deals that he's negotiating. and
we saw US treasuries pop kind of across
the curve really with this deadline
getting pushed out. Looking back to
April 2nd, you know, many argued that
the the reversal wasn't caused by uh
concerns around market performance, but
more so around the fact that US
treasuries were were had had really
backed up um something like 50 beeps at
that point. These this the curve is up
sort of two to seven basis points from
two to 30 years. How important is this
do you think as a predictor of both
markets and policy in your view? Do you
think this this will the the the yield
curve is going to have an material
impact on on the administration's
decision-m?
>> I think to an extent. I think that there
was clearly when you go back to the
aftermath of of April 2nd and the
initiation of that 90-day pause, I think
it's fair to say that that that decision
was predominantly a result of Treasury
Secretary Bess said calling the
president and suggesting that things
were getting uncomfortable in the
Treasury market and that the volatility
that we were seeing there and the
unusual behavior that I mentioned
earlier that that was a cause for
concern and could ultimately prove to be
more destabilizing and I think was
probably the catalyst for that 90-day
extension or that 90-day delay. When it
comes to the level of rates more
broadly, clearly the administration is
focused on it. We certainly hear plenty
out of the president in terms of his
opinions on where short rates ought to
be. The question ultimately is what is
the implications on long-term interest
rates from what happens to short rates.
I think if if the if the president was
successful in bullying the Fed into
lowering short-term rates when it seemed
like inflation wasn't fully addressed,
then that could actually have the
opposite effect on long-term rates. And
as we know, much more of the economy
today in the United States is influenced
by the long end of the curve than the
short end of the curve as as debt has
tended to be termed out. And of course,
we have the implications on housing
which are driven very much by what
happens at the long end of the curve.
the Wall Street Journal just this week.
And perhaps the most alarming statistic
that I saw in there, which is which is
not necessarily new information, but an
interesting way to frame it is that at
today's prices, meaning the combination
of of home prices and high interest
rates, that you buyers need to have
$127,000
in income in order to be able to afford
the median priced home in this country,
which is up from 79,000 in 2021. So
that's a dramatic change in
affordability in the United States. And
and if you look at the affordability
statistics, they haven't been this bad
since the 1980s when we started tracking
the series. And so ultimately, clearly
we have an affordability issue in the
United States that has really blocked
out first-time home buyers in
particular. And interest rates are going
to have to be part of the solution there
at some point or you're going to have to
have a corrective mechanism in home
prices coming down. But clearly
something has to change over time in
order to reimagine that that
affordability dynamic in the United
States.
So besides uh home affordability, is
there is there anything else, Chris,
that's keeping you up at night these
days or or or conversely or or both,
maybe any opportunities that you're
specifically excited about?
>> Well, I think at the end of the day,
when we're sitting at comfortably above
22 times forward earnings on the S&P
500, there's a low margin of safety. And
so the market is susceptible to bad
news. And that bad news could come from
some kind of exogenous geopolitical
event. It could come from Washington. It
could come from what happens in the
broader economy. We have done a fair
amount of damage as I mentioned earlier
to consumer and business psychology. And
to what degree that plays through as we
look at the um as we look out over the
balance of this year, we'll have to see.
But we know that the bottom third of
Americans are struggling economically.
Now, one would argue and and perhaps
many economists would that that part of
the economy is usually struggling. So,
this isn't necessarily new information
either. But when it comes down to the
the ability of the consumer to absorb
these tariffs if they are ultimately
passed along and in what form and
whether or not that leads to either
substitutions or just people lessening
the amount that they're spending that
does have implications economically and
it doesn't feel like the market is
currently priced for a slowdown in
either what happens in the employment
markets or in the broader economy. So I
do think that we have to be just
conscious of the fact that we have a low
margin of safety. We learned that
earlier this year with the nearly 20%
correction that we had from similar
levels.
>> It's a funny time to be priced for
perfection, right?
>> That's right. That's right. There seems
like there's a lot going on to be to be
so sanguin when it comes to the the
opportunities. I think one of the
interesting things that we'll be
watching very closely in the coming uh
months and years is when we look at AI
and the implications that it has. If you
think about this as being orders of
beneficiary where you have the first
order beneficiaries which is the AI
infrastructure trade like the Nvidas of
the world. Then you have the second
order beneficiaries which is those that
are selling access to that AI compute
which is the hyperscalers like Amazon,
Microsoft, Google. And then you have the
third uh order beneficiaries which is I
I guess I'd call the application layer
where you have software that's being
written and then sold to exploit the
benefits of AI. And then you have the
fourth layer which is not yet seeing the
benefits in a consequential way but we
know is on the come is the traditional
economy companies that are going to be
putting AI to use to improve either
their efficiency or create new
opportunities in their existing
businesses and the degree to which that
transform those businesses of which
there's going to be winners and no doubt
losers um will be really the determinant
of of not only absolute gains but
certainly relative gains and I do think
it's going to be interesting to watch
and again I I mentioned my positive view
toward the United States but to the
degree that we end up commoditizing the
the LLMs and so forth that maybe
ultimately this fourth order beneficiary
which is going to be far more than just
the US that maybe that is the next leg
of growth for the the market and the
economy more broadly. But when we think
about again the market and I mentioned
earlier that the S&P on an equal
weighted basis is trading roughly in
line with its 10-year median valuation.
There are still plenty of stocks to buy.
there are still plenty of of industries
that you can own and not feel like
you're paying exorbitant valuations. And
so I do think that that provides a
little bit of comfort that there's more
room to be had there. The other area
that I think is probably going to see
some increasing attention is small caps
where small caps as a percentage of the
total US equity market I don't think
have ever been lower than they are right
now. The valuations have certainly
disconnected to the downside as have
fundamentals candidly. But as we look
forward and if you do think that there's
going to be an interesting in an
interest in broading out performance and
and interest in broading out portfolios,
I do think that there's an opportunity
there where again thinking about the
size of that index, you have several
names in the S&P 500 that are larger
than the entire Russell 2000. So it
doesn't take a lot of capital changing
hands in order to have pretty dramatic
influences on performance. And so we do
think that there's some opportunities
brewing there as well. So, small caps
and and areas outside of uh a big tech.
Sounds good. Um coming to the end of our
our chat today. Unfortunately, Chris,
I've got a two-parter here for you that
I ask everybody, which is what was your
first job in the industry? And if you
could go back and take yourself for
coffee on your first day, what key piece
of advice would you offer yourself?
>> Well, my first job in the industry was
right out of undergrad working at All
State in their equity investment group
in North Brook, Illinois. and I was 22
years old and I was very fortunate I
felt in order to land a job in an equity
investment group at that time. Granted
it was 1997 and you know even a guy like
me could find a job in this business
back in 1997 is those were good years.
Um, but the one thing I did then that
that I guess I'm I'm very happy that I
did was I really despite my young age, I
forced myself to really think outside
the box from an operational perspective
as to how we were running the business
and and I actually taught myself how to
program in Visual Basic and I automated
a whole bunch of the back office
processes that we use for report writing
and so forth and and using new
technologies and and really made a name
for myself early on and andworked very
very well in order to leverage that into
one of the PMS that left there and
joined my predecessor firm from here and
brought me with. And so it was really it
was really that networking and and not
being afraid to challenge the existing
status quo why things were done a
certain way because oftentimes a fresh
set of eyes can make all the difference
in in seeing things that that have just
been done a certain way because that's
just the way they were done.
>> I've been speaking today with Chris
Shipley, senior vice president and
co-chief investment officer of Port
Washington Investment Advisors. Thanks
for chatting with me today, Chris.
Thanks for having me.
>> I'm Mike Wald and this is Bean, the
enterprising investor.
[Music]
