[Music]
Hello and welcome to the enterprising
investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahberg and I'm joined today by Eric
Hano. Eric is a partner at Apollo Global
Management where he is co-head of the
Apollo aligned alternatives or AAA
strategy. As of year end, Apollo managed
$750 billion globally, and word on the
street is that AAA may likely become
Apollo's biggest fund this year. Before
joining Apollo, Eric was a partner at
Carile Group, and he also spent time in
private equity at Partners Group after
starting his career at Goldman Sachs.
We're going to focus today on the market
for semi-liquid investments, what they
are, how investors are allocating them
into portfolios, what to be aware of,
and how to get the most out of them. So,
welcome to the show, Eric. Hey, Mike.
Thanks for having me. Now, Eric, I I
have to admit I I feel lucky to be in
this seat interviewing folks like
yourself sometimes, especially when
we're in the midst of periods like this
spring with the high levels of
uncertainty and volatility we've seen in
the markets here. Now, I know you focus
on private assets, so it doesn't affect
affect you as much on a day-to-day
basis, but I I feel like I'd be remiss
if I didn't check your pulse on the
current state of the public markets.
Like, what are you seeing out there? And
what's the energy like in Apollo's
offices these days? Yeah. No, great
question. Look, I I think we entered
2025 with a really strong economy and
then, you know, liberation day happened
and we started to see both consumer and
and business confidence decline. We now
facing tariffs. We're facing the
retaliation from tariffs. We've got Doge
happening, laying people off. I think
there's a number of of negative impacts
on the global economy right now. And so
I do think with what we're seeing today,
we we think there's a a higher
probability of recession. And so we'll
see as Trump starts to unwind things
daytoday how quickly that changes. But
we're certainly much more cautious than
we came into the year. And for us really
at Apollo, we believe it's our time to
shine. Uh we're a value investor. If you
look back historically, we've deployed
significant capital and in many cases
made our best investments uh in periods
of volatility. So the vibe at Apollo,
you know, the day after everything
happened, Mark Rowan, our CEO, and Jim
Zelter, our president, came into our
cafeteria at 6:00 a.m., had big smiles
on their faces and sort of told
everyone, "Stay calm." This historically
over our 35 year history has been a
period where, you know, we've had great
opportunities to deploy capital. We've
got a lot of dry powder. We think we've
been positioning our portfolio
defensively. So, less problems. Let
let's stay calm and and and play some
offense. So, you could almost literally
feel the pulse of our offices in New
York and around the world in the weeks
since, you know, this volatility started
where everyone's just dialed in and
focused. And I'm not sure that that
major opportunity to invest has quite
hit. But generally in these periods of
volatility windows will present
themselves. And so while we're not
excited for a global recession, in some
ways as valueoriented investors, this is
the most exciting time for us at Apollo.
That's right. Yeah. Cuz once you
especially once you start seeing signs
of of recession, that's when you know
the valuations start to gap down a bit
and that's when the opportunities really
present themselves. What do you feel
like the in terms of demand? So you you
you described what it's like from Apollo
side and what the opportunity set looks
like, but how do you feel like the
uncertain macro outlook or or the macro
outlook that we're dealing with in
general right now affects investors
appetites for private assets relative to
public ones? Great question. I do think
that in general you see a bit of a pause
from investors when they see a big event
like this. Everyone's trying to reflect.
I think there's a lot of smart financial
adviserss out there that are trying to
advise their clients. Now, this isn't
the time to to sell a lot of equities.
It's actually the time where you should
be leaning in and investing because
we've been in this period of elevated
valuations. It's the first time where we
maybe are going to be able to find some
some opportunities. You know, for us in
its early days, you know, I think people
look at Apollo and our valueoriented
strategy in the defensive way that we
position our portfolios. And I think uh
so far it's been a little more business
as usual, but you know, I do think that
things could slow down with macro
volatility. And I think in general the
question where everyone's trying to
digest is is there sort of another leg
down or or is now the time to be leaning
in? And I think it's a little too early
to answer that question. And I think
where we differentiate ourselves is
that, you know, again, in private
markets, you can't just, you know, get
in and out as easily as you can in
public markets. You sort of need to take
the long-term course. And I think we've
been thought of as a safe pair of hands
that that have been positioning things
defensively that are probably one of the
best investors in these volatile times.
So hard to say investor by investor
type, but we've certainly had some big
institutional investors that we're
expecting to be, you know, coming into
some of our strategies over the course
of the year. We consider continue to see
consistent flows in retail, but we're
three weeks into this. So I think it's a
little early to call any conclusions on
how how it will will impact flows for
for us visa v some of the the public
opportunities out there. Yeah. Yeah,
because you put you put like you say 3
weeks of volatility against a backdrop
of sort of 15 years of other macro
trends that have been happening with the
you know the low interest rates stretch
free yield over that time um low cost of
capital so it was kind of a bonanza for
private allocations over that that time
coming into 25 did how did you feel like
we were where we were in that sort of
life cycle of allocations among
specifically among in institutions like
were they were they getting kind of full
were getting to the level where they
felt like they had enough. Yeah, you
bring up a couple. So, institutions in
general, I think there's still some that
are entering and ramping their private
market portfolios, but for those that
had mature private market portfolios, I
think many were feeling the pain from
not a lot of distributions as we've seen
uh reduced exit activity in in typical
private equity for the last few years.
So I do think that you know the more
mature private market investors were
feeling a bit full but there's still a
lot of new entrance coming into the
asset class. And I would say probably
the more important trend for us and that
we we've been really highlighting at
Apollo is that we think there's this
convergence of public and private
markets that is happening in front of
our eyes and you know fixed income is is
a great place to kind of as a starting
point. If you think about investment
grade fixed income, we have these great
signposts and rating agencies and you
know a lot of the you know public fixed
income and both private fixed income are
both rated. Mhm. So it's very easy for
an investor to sort of look at the two
assess here's the return profile you get
for this uh deemed level of risk and
we're seeing this convergence and it's
not just the higher risk direct lending
that seems to get a lot of attention in
the media but it's this much bigger $40
trillion industry that includes
investment grade fixed income. So we
would sort of argue on that side of the
house that there is this mega trend of
convergence between public and private.
On the fixed income side, if you
actually look at the equity side, and
this is really fascinating.
Historically, everyone has looked at
public markets and they've said, you
know, they're diversified, they're safe,
you should put the bulk of your
portfolio into public equity. And then
as they looked at private markets for
equity, they just really sought, you
know, for a small percentage of their
portfolio, let's take a bunch of risk.
Let's really seek the reward side of
that. And you know, you highlighted this
that that's worked really well in an
environment with very low interest rates
or reducing interest rates and the
environment where private asset prices
have been slowly increasing. We've seen
that trend for really an extended period
of time until interest rates reset,
right? Right. And now that interest
rates have gone up, the shock of 22,
right? Exactly. Private asset value
should come down. And what what we're
trying to highlight is that you just
don't have to go to private markets for
that reward. We think that you can go
for safer segments of private markets
and that today you got public equity
where 10 stocks represent 35% of the
index trading at, you know, 50 to 60
times price to earnings ratio. and
they're great companies, but inherently
there's just more concentration and more
risk than we've seen. So, we're trying
to educate people that also on the
equity side, there's components of
public and private that are both risky
and safe. And you shouldn't really think
about it as this public private divide,
but you should go out there and and try
and build the optimal portfolio using
both aspects of public and private. And
particularly in the private markets, I
think Apollo has been a leader in trying
to deliver some solutions that are
somewhere in between that really risky
traditional private equity uh and
private credit and it's a segment we
call hybrid which we hope can have you
know equity-like return characteristics
but more fixed income like volatility
and downside protection. Yeah. Yeah. So
that gets us to the point about you
obviously the biggest difference between
the two is liquidity there and so I
wonder if you can can you tell talk to
us a little bit about semi-liquid
investments as I as I understand it they
straddle that divide between liquid
public securities and traditional
private assets and can you just describe
how they work? Yeah, absolutely. And and
this is a big structural change. If you
think about the allocation to private
markets with big institutions, you know,
on average maybe 20 to 30% of their
portfolio is in private markets. If you
then go to, you know, the individual
investor marketplace, which is $150
trillion marketplace, uh you know, 1 to
2% allocations to private markets, one
of the biggest challenges has been how
do you access private markets? And
traditionally you've done, you know, the
closed end private equity fund where you
commit amount of capital. They draw it
down over a typically a a four to five
year period. They go as they're doing
deals and then they sell those companies
and give it back to you. And for a big
institution to ramp a portfolio using
that type of instrument, they often take
six to seven years to ramp that
portfolio. They experience what's called
a J curve, right? which is when you're
paying fees on the entire amount you
committed, but they haven't yet invested
all that capital. So, you actually have
a negative return. That's just really
hard for the traditional individual to
digest that type of structure. So, uh
now we have evergreen or semi-liquid
funds. It allows you to buy in and get
fully invested day one. It's almost like
buying an index fund. You buy into a
pool of assets. You know, you shouldn't
get a J curve because you are fully
invested. Typically those evergreen
funds are available to investors on a
monthly basis. So at the be you know
beginning or end of every month you can
allocate so you can ramp up over time
very easily. And they do they're they're
semi-liquid so we don't want to oversell
the liquidity here but they have
liquidity features that allow you to uh
often sell up to 5% per quarter is a
pretty typical structure that's done at
the fund level. So if more than 5% of
investors want to redeem, they may not
get fully out in that quarter. But it
offers a lot more liquidity as an option
versus the old way which essentially
offered no liquidity until that business
was sold unless you wanted to tap into
the secondary markets which are
uncertain and actually quite difficult
for individual investors to tap into
with small investments. So you know
fully invested day one, you know, no J
curve aspects of liquidity. Um, I think
as individual investors start to
understand these structures, as they
gain confidence, as these new structures
uh build track records, I think it's
going to be a big unlock to close the
gap between the 1% that 1 to 2% high net
worth individuals have versus the 20%
plus that we're seeing with large
institutions. So, from the manager's
perspective though, I mean, I I can
imagine a scenario where you're fully
invested, you've got all of your, you
know, it's an open-ended fund,
everyone's in, and then you get massive
flows. So how how does that work? So
because it's not like it's an
instantaneous you can't deploy as the J
curve demonstrates, right? So from the
manager's perspective, how do you remain
fully invested if you if you're really
successful in selling the fund? Yeah, I
think that's one of the important
aspects to getting it right. you know,
you have to establish a fund and and
that that is able to match investor
inflows with investment opportunities.
Uh because you are taking all that cash
day one, I think that that risk reduces
as these funds scale, right? So, if I
have a, you know, $100 portfolio and I
raise $100, wow, I'm in trouble. I've
got 50% cash by definition. I got to put
it together quickly. But if you are
thoughtful about scaling these these
these these structures and these
products and I think you've got a lot of
really smart sophisticated institutions
that are launching them that are being
thoughtful about how they scale those
and and if you think about Apollo we've
got 800 investment professionals a lot
of deployment you know we're going to be
thoughtful and we're going to scale it
up so we make sure we hit the the target
returns and once you do get to scale
those inflows are much easier to manage
given you got a big installed base of of
of assets that are uh generating value.
So, so you touched a little bit on it,
the sort of 20% plus allocations that
you've seen historically from
institutions, 1%ish among high net
worth. So, how how are investors using
semiquids in their portfolios? And and
in your mind, what what allocations make
sense for institutions versus high net
worth or ultra high net worth or even
below that? Yeah, it's funny you
mentioned it. So, the leaders in private
private market assets are actually the
ultra high net worth. So what we see in
in that family office segment is often I
think on average somewhere around 50% of
their portfolio will be in private
markets. Those are you know really
wealthy individuals that are completely
unconstrained that really are thinking
about multi-generational wealth. They
don't they don't need the liquidity
tomorrow. So yeah they walk and talk
more like institutions in that scenario.
Exactly. So if you put that bogey at the
far end of the spectrum, as you come
down that wealth spectrum, there is a
component that you need to fund your
lifestyle on your day-to-day where it
may not make sense to have as high a
proportion in private markets. And if
you really look uh so so so depending on
where you are in that spectrum, I guess
you could say you could be somewhere
between the 1 to 2% and 50%. In general,
I would expect that individual investors
that um have significant wealth will
look at the excess return and risk
parameters uh in private markets,
recognize the benefit of having access
to this this asset class from a
portfolio construction standpoint and
over time to the extent they don't need
the liquidity in the near term, I think
that high net worth universe will come
to the 10 20% as they gain comfort with
these structures. You know, there are
some other market opportunities I should
mention like defined
contribution or 401k
plans. Everyone is investing for their
retirement so way out in the future and
they're doing that in a structure that
requires daily liquidity. That makes no
sense. If you can get excess returns and
build a better portfolio by tap trading
off a little liquidity, and by the way,
this is a pool of assets you're not
expecting to need until retirement. I
think we are going to break down some
barriers. I think we're in the early
stages of starting to get private
markets into defined contribution. I
think a lot of people see the merit. So
yeah, I think there uh is just this
enormous opportunity when you think
about that 1 2% versus this $150
trillion market. I don't know how fast
the adoption will be. I think that will
be driven by, you know, how good we are
as managers uh at delivering alpha or
excess return per the universe that we
do. And that's that's sort of what you
pay us for day in and day out. And
that's, you know, what we're super
focused on uh at Apollo.
It's Yeah, it's strange. I I had a PR
rep for a fun company call me the other
day. He was asking about uh having their
CEO on on this show to talk about a
product innovation that they developed,
which is that they'd essentially figured
out a loophole that allowed them to sell
units of funds that were entirely
invested in private assets and carried
all the same liquidity risk, but they
offered it on a DIY basis, so it's
directly to investor with no asset
minimums. And it's it's you can see
where my questions come from. It's no
secret I'm I'm skeptical of these assets
being sold at scale to unsophisticated
investors. So down way down the asset
level. So when you talk about the ultra
high net worth, it's it's a different
model, right? And so in this model, it
it this model didn't even have an
adviser sitting between them and the
potential lock up of all their capital.
So I should back up and say I know this
is not Apollo's model and I know you you
can't talk about your funds itself but
what do you think is necessary to ensure
that this general like um industrywide
sort of move down market doesn't leave
some investors out in the cold? Yeah. So
you bring up a really important point.
predominantly when when Apollo is
interfacing directly with clients, we
are interfacing with the the family
office or really that ultra high netw
worth very sophisticated act and talk
like institutions as you just said or or
really that high netw worth community
where we're accessing that via you know
a financial adviser or an RAA or someone
that is sophisticated and understanding
this and when we are actually talking to
those financial adviserss or selling to
their end clients uh those have been
very well vetted by home offices that
are actually quite sophisticated and act
like institutions themselves. So I do
think for that high net worth community
there's a very you know there is a good
layer of people coming in and and really
understanding the structure
understanding the manager and the
strategy and being thoughtful about
ramping these up over time. When it
comes to the mass affluent those that
are not using an advisor you know we
really don't or have not planned to
access them directly. We plan to be a
parts provider to them. So those
investors may be in a State Street or a
Fidelity or you name the traditional
asset manager. Maybe we provide some
parts in the private markets to one of
those big wellestablished traditional
managers that are are going to be the
the path. So in that situation again,
you have sort of a professional asset
allocator in between us and that end
investor helping to make sure that
they're thinking about it right because
you're right, this is new. People need
to make sure that they understand it and
we fundamentally believe the education
piece is one of the most important
things for these individual investors as
they start to access private markets.
We've actually put a public education
site out there as Apollo where we we
allow uh individuals to access
information that tells them about
private markets because we want people
to understand, you know, what we're
doing, what we're designing things for.
We want them to have a good experience
and a good outcome. And I think that's
something that the whole industry
understands and is is really taking
serious as we start to roll out into
the, you know, individual marketplace
more broadly. That's that's great.
Thanks for that. I wanted to circle back
on one one thing you mentioned, you
touched a little bit on on private
credit there. We had uh Danielle D.
Martino Booth was on the show the last
couple of months and uh one of the
things she was worried about was the
state of private credit and as I
understand it, Apollo I think is the
largest originator of private credit in
the world if I got that right. So what
are you seeing and and what's the
opportunity here? Correct. So that's
correct. uh Apollo is the largest
private credit manager in the world and
I think you know there's been a lot of
headlines around private credit that are
focused on this narrow direct lending
component of private credit which is
where there's been a lot of growth and
product proliferation. We actually view
the private credit landscape to be more
the $40 trillion market which also
include includes the investment grade
private credit segment. So the majority
of what we do at Apollo is actually
investment grade private credit. And so
you know that's one of the reasons that
we are one of the largest private credit
managers is because we are also a very
large uh insurance company, a retirement
services company. And in the insurance
business, you are a large consumer.
You're a long-term holder of assets. And
a large portion of that is investment
grade. And one of the reasons behind the
success is we've been able to find
excess return per unit of risk in
private investment grade. So yeah, I I
do think that the more direct lending
segment has become very popular. We as
Apollo play there as well. I think we
have been very defensively positioned.
We've got over 350 investment
professionals. We're a top relationship
for all the banks for all the different
origination areas. We've also built out
our own origination. So we own 16
origination platforms. We think the key
to being successful as a private market
investor and in private credit is to
have differentiated ability to originate
and see everything and then select into
what you find to be an attractive
riskreward. So if you are new to private
credit and you've got 15 people and
you're out there and you raised a fund
and you're trying to do deals, your
ability to see the market, to have a
large opportunity set to choose from, I
think it's much harder. and and there's
a lot of new entrance that that fit
those profiles, but we've been large,
we've been steady, as I said, we're
doing a lot in the investment grade
space and we are really thinking about
we've particularly in the last year or
two have been really positioning
ourselves defensively, you know, should
we see any sort of credit cycle. So, we
we feel well positioned. We we see the
headlines, but we think this is a mega
trend that's here to stay. Private
credit is growing. It's taking share
from public credit. Uh, and as I
mentioned earlier, there's just this
mixing of like what really is the
difference between public and private
credit when they're both rated and as
they become more and more liquid over
time on the private side. So, so what
are you seeing in just in terms of that
credit cycle? I mean, I know spreads
spreads were pretty tight coming into
this year. There's been a lot going on
since Liberation Day. Is this is it
starting to get a little bit more
interesting in in credit? Yeah, I mean,
look, it's it's still early days. Look,
one of the one of the the biggest
opportunities when you see a market
selloff, one of the initial things you
can do is you can go out there and you
can potentially buy, you know, first
lean debt at huge discounts where you
can get equity like returns and you're
at the most senior position in the
capital structure. So, you know, when
the equity market sold off in a
meaningful way, we did not see the
credit market sell off to the same
level. So, I would say the opportunities
to date have been a little bit more
limited. But we do think that increased
volatility, significant increase in the
risk of recession, uh, should create
opportunities in the future. But, you
know, we're three weeks into liberation
day. We just saw consumer and business
confidence sort of come down. So, I'd
say, you know, we're defensively
positioned with our existing holdings
and, uh, we're sort of getting ready to
uh, you know, play offense should the
opportunity present itself. So, time
flies when we're having fun on here.
Eric, we're unfortunately we're down to
our final two point two-part question
for you. So, I wonder if you could tell
me I I know you were at Goldman. I don't
know if you were anywhere before that,
but the question is, what is your first
job in the industry, and if you could go
back and take yourself for coffee on
your first day, what key piece of advice
would you offer yourself?
Yeah, Goldman Sachs was was my first
job. I started in Chicago. We were
actually Goldman was actually in the
Sears Tower back then. And I uh you know
I came from maybe a less traditional
school. I went to Colorado State
University which a great university but
not a big recruiting university for
Goldman Sachs. And so I felt very lucky
to have that opportunity. And I came in
you know really big eyed and excited to
be at at what was one of the top
financial institutions. And you know I
think my one one big piece of advice to
anyone that's starting is to number one
you got to put your time in. So, put
your head down, work hard, but number
two, pay attention to the trends, pay
attention to the way things are
shifting, find something that you enjoy
that's well positioned in a growth area.
And um, you know, I think I was very
lucky in my career because I started at
Goldman Sachs on the public side, really
enjoyed it, learned a ton, but very
quickly realized that public markets
were incredibly efficient. It was
incredibly difficult to drive alpha. And
with the technology that was gaining
speed, it felt like it was going to be
tough to, you know, have the type of
career that that people prior to me had.
And so, you know, I was lucky to have
moved to New York, have a lot of good
influence where I I was able to see
maybe early on this this private market
trend taking off. Uh, had an opportunity
to sort of make the jump over to that
side. So, that's my advice to everyone.
Work hard, but keep an eye out for the
big mega trends in the industry and try
to position yourself in a way that you
can take advantage of it. I've been
speaking today with Eric Hano, partner
at Apollo Global Management and co-head
of the Apollo aligned alternative
strategy. Thanks for coming on the show
today, Eric. This has been great.
Thanks, Mike. Appreciate the time. Take
care. I'm Mike Wahberg and this has been
the enterprising investor.
