[Music]
Good morning everyone. Hopefully uh you
are still wide awake um and energized by
John's introduction. Uh I must say I
thoroughly enjoyed the process of uh
writing the paper. I don't know John, do
we have those hot off the press?
>> We do.
>> So they are outside. Okay. So for those
of you who are old-fashioned, I'm one of
them actually and prefers glossy reading
material that you can actually take on a
plane. There are copies of the report
outside uh as well. But uh welcome to
the first panel of the day. We are here
with um people who have either been
observing or thinking about or actually
implementing TPA for many years um to
try to demystify it a bit and hopefully
ask some of the questions that are on
your mind. Um, I also like the fact that
I have an A team on stage right now.
I've got starting from the end, um, an
al the alternative association, right?
I've got AIA, which has two A's in it,
but also is an asset owner. Um, an asset
manager and asset advisor. Um, those
labels alone give you nine A's, right?
So, this is going to be an awesome
experience, I'm sure. Um, but uh, well,
you know, John, you've kind of already
given us your origin story, so I'm not
going to ask you for yours, but I
thought one of the things that would be
really helpful is for us to explain how
we became, I guess, familiar or um, how
we started on this journey on TPA um, in
our own words. So, our relationship with
TPA, the origin story, if you will.
We're not superheroes, but something
like that. Um, mine, I would call myself
an observer, by the way. So my first
encounter with TPA was at CPPIB. I no I
did not work for CPPIB but um I had a
bunch of very uh curious Koreans in tow
who wanted to go and see what CPPIB was
all about. And I think it was 2005 when
we went there and learned about their
history and the reference portfolio and
the thinking which they didn't call TPA
at the time but was kind of the early I
guess um setting for what came uh later
on. And so for me, I've had the the I
guess the privilege of working with uh
asset owners for many years and
observing how that's changed um through
history. And so that's that's my
background. That's my origin story. Not
very original. I'm not an originator.
I'm just an observer. Um but with that,
Yarn, would you like to introduce
yourself and tell us your origin story?
>> Sure. Thank you. And thank you for for
having me here.
>> Absolutely enjoyed your presentation. I
couldn't have said it better myself. Uh
so my my name is Banna Graven Lson. Uh
today I am the CEO and founder of
Copenhagen based uh Cub Blue Balanced.
Uh we are a asset management company. I
used to have liabilities as well but
today I'm managing uh assets systematic
uh hedge funds as well as systematic
loan only strategies. So uh being
invited here to the to the conference
and and thinking about what to say I
realized that I actually started
implementing uh what was not called TPA
at the time uh in 2001 at ATP
uh the Danish pension plan. The trigger
was not really changing world or um
resilience or anything like that. It was
something as down to earth as two
changes in regulation. Uh a solveny
requirement uh standard was being
introduced for for pension plans and we
would shifted to mark tomarket
regulation and I was so fortunately at
ATP and I realized later on it's much
easier to start with a small
organization and a blank piece of paper.
We were five people managing a very big
pension plan, Europe's fourth largest.
And we had decided to start from scratch
and figure out how to run a pension
plan. And it turned out we shifted from
asset classes to risk classes. Then we
introduced a solveny requirement. We
started thinking about what was the
overall objective we were trying to
achieve. We introduced a risk tolerance,
a risk measure, a dynamic risk budget uh
and started to think about factor
investments between 2001 and 2004. We
didn't call it TPA at the time, but it
turns out now when when I read papers
about TPA that that was really what it
was. Um when I later in my career uh got
the chance to move to Canada working for
Ontario teachers pension plan as the
chief investment officer there. The
reason why I was hired was really that
um Ontario teachers has been a very
successful
uh bottomup investors, private equity
infrastructure and so on. But they
wanted to implement what they call the
total portfolio or total fund approach.
So they were inspired by what we did at
ATP. So that was really what I did uh
for three years working in Toronto and
exactly to your point uh John when you
work with large organization that are
already successful uh culture behavior
governance becomes much more important
if you start with a blank piece of paper
and a fi five people it's actually much
much easier to implement it but but with
a successful organization as Ontario
teachers trying to change the philosophy
for how run thing that was a big change.
So I I got some experience there and I
think we did pretty well.
>> Thanks for that. So you know even
earlier than me obviously 2001 um but
also that journey throughout um ATP and
Ontario teachers until today. So Trevor
I know that AIA doesn't publicly claim
to be a total portfolio management house
and you have serious liabilities but
still Trevor I think it would be
interesting to hear it might not be with
AI. I I am I actually don't know the
answer to this question. I came up with
the questions, but I didn't ask for the
answers ahead of time. So, I'm actually
very curious, Trevor, because when we
talk, I can tell that you have the
mindset. But I but I do wonder what the
origin of that is.
>> Yes. So, my origin story um would blow
out the time we have, right? So, um so
I'll I'll start my my story with AIA. Um
so so we've been on a journey um which
echoes the the points both Bion and and
John have made excellently by the way
that I did think in in five 10 minutes
to try and talk about TPA and introduce
the topic is is challenging anyway. Um
but but linking to the original story um
and and picking up a point beyond it's
much more harder in an established
culture of investment to introduce some
change or something new in something as
fundamental as TPA. Um our journey in in
AIA many many of you may be aware of was
as well catalyzed if I if I start
between 10 and seven years ago by the
impending change in regulation right
which and and this point which actually
has been a bigger theme in markets I
think throughout our careers which is
moving to market value as you mentioned
and and and a more economic approach to
um basically calculating solveny and
risk um and return. So, so while the
entire um universe has basically become
a little bit more precise about um the
basis upon which we take risk within our
portfolios as asset owners, um AIA was a
classic investment case study. We had
predominantly one asset class within the
firm that had driven tremendous profits
for for quite a significant number of
years and and that was corporate bond
credit spread. Right? That that was it.
the be all and end all of an extremely
um successful investment team. Um so if
we talk about hammers and nails um every
every solution to every problem was
credit um in internally and so so the
journey and the origin of the concept or
the need to embrace TPA was really
thinking about where does the total
portfolio have to go and and where it
went in its journey was we first of all
introduced synthetics derivatives right
to to match our risk um and that's quite
a significant change for any any large
scale organization as part of its
modernization. Um on the back of um the
introduction of derivatives, there were
balance sheet optimization tools that
were available to the firm that allowed
us to do things like share buybacks,
which are clearly um the way that the
market encourages um corporates to to
respond going forward. And so generating
higher returns within our portfolio
became front and center as part of our
profitability requirement. And so that's
what led to a a major private asset
program. Um so we now have quite a
significant um and sizable private asset
program um that's managed from um Asia.
Um but basically that was the second
piece of of building out our capability
and and our tool set which then created
this need concurrently for us to evolve
our SAA and we still use SAA and and in
some gen um jurisdictions in in the
region there is a a demand from the
regulator to actually have an SAA. So
the concept isn't one that we're going
to deviate from um in any short period
of time, but evolve that SAA um
according to the models you mentioned
quite a few of the the forward thinking
asset owners in the broader if you like
returnseeking space but in in our space
in the LDI space pension risk transfer
evolution and um the backbook the BPA
business in the UK were the models that
have evolved liability driven investing
which is largely clearly where where the
insurance company's focus. So my
origination story took us to a place
where we had to um in order to
communicate to our entire investment
staff adopt language like TPA. So so the
way I most commonly describe our journey
towards TPA is that we have a very clear
ALM LDI driven piece of our portfolio
that needs to support guarantees that
needs to support solveny metrics etc.
But then there's another part of our
portfolio which is looks and acts and
feels like an endowment or a sovereign
where there's an ambiguity of where the
next best return will come from but some
model that's necessary in order for us
to shape our resources and that's how I
I I arrive at TPA and and other terms
that have been used in in this attempt
to try and describe TPA. the next dollar
that we deploy um particularly in our
risk asset space. I'm the same as a TPA
investor in that that case and and leads
on I think to where we'll go in terms of
some of the change.
>> Yeah, that's that's super interesting
because I think it does highlight the
fact that and this is my theory that TPA
is a coping mechanism, a governance
coping mechanism for the uncertainty of
the unknown. Whereas if you have a very
low target and all you really need is
credit, well, do you really need TPA
would be my question. But I hear echoes
in both of your stories, right? The the
echo of story, what I'm hearing is that
you're trying to overcome a challenge
that cannot be met with a framework that
simply thinks about everything as
benchmarks and buckets, right? And you
need to have other layers of return,
other ways of adding that value. Um, I'm
going to now go to our first major
question. I know we talked about origin
stories, and sorry, John, you've already
given us your origin story, so I'm not
going to ask you for yours again. But um
I I think there there are two parts to
how I'm going to lead the rest of today.
One part is going to be about you know
what are the top three things you need
to be considering if you are actually
interested in trying to adopt this
because it's not going to be right for
everyone and then the second part is
well you've actually tried it like what
bits were difficult what are some of the
practical realities of actually trying
to do TPA. So we're going to break it
down into two those two parts. Um but to
just kick us off I'm going to start with
a lightning round. Right. So I and John
knows that I love to do this, but I'm
going to be asking starting from John
and coming down this way. What's the one
word that comes to mind when I ask you
the question, what is the most important
aspect of TPA? Um John's kind of already
given two words. I'm not sure if you've
got a different word in mind, but go
ahead, John. We'll come back down this
way. One word.
>> One word.
>> Okay. Up to two.
>> Yeah, I can forgive up to two. Well,
I'll use one that I haven't used yet,
which is unfair because I I sat up here
for 10 minutes and used a lot of words.
So, I'm gonna say competition.
>> Competition. Okay, Trevor.
>> Yes, mine's outcome.
>> Outcome. Okay. Competition and outcome.
All right, Bon.
>> My single word is the mic. Sorry,
>> I need the mic. Yeah, my my single word
would be objective and risk tolerance.
That was one, right?
>> Objective and risk tolerance. Not quite
one word, but that's fine. So, let's
unpack that now. Um, you you know, I I
asked the question, what are the top
three things that come to mind when you
think about, you know, how to implement
TPA? You you gave us two words, but give
me the reason why that was your number
one and and maybe unpack that for me.
>> Okay. I think u I think what I realized
early on is that a lot of the practice
in does work. Yeah, it does. a lot of
the way you you you do as a management
and and as I said I come from an
organization that has liabilities like
AIA but kind of as a pension plan and it
was interesting to hear some of the
things you said John you were actually
talking to some of the large funds in
the world that was mainly with like
sovereign kind of funds buffer funds
without explicit liabilities and I think
it's very different when you have
explicit liabilities and and you you you
figure out how to manage assets this
becomes a total funds approach instead
of a total portfolio approach really. Uh
but what what we did find is that people
didn't have a common language and we
didn't have a clear objective. If people
you everybody at all the organizations I
worked at they would say they have a
clear objective and then when you ask
them what it is and can you make that
operational for us so we can use it they
don't have it and it feels like you have
to go back to stop before you can really
start to work and we did that at ATP. at
a teachers and it turned out after many
many many months of discussion that the
objective that we were going to use at
ATP was maximizing net present value of
all future pensions in purchasing power
terms and that became very operational
for us where before we didn't have that
and then the next question was of course
uh but how do you limit your risk taking
what is your risk tolerance and and how
do you measure risk and with the
regulatory setup that was uh introduced
in Denmark, it was clear that if we were
not at all times overfunded or solvent,
you could say uh we would be uh unable
to fulfill our long-term purpose. So
therefore,
I'll try this one. No, so we we um we we
needed to formulate how much risk we
could take and spending time also on how
do you define risk, how do you measure
it, and how much can you tolerate. Uh we
spent a lot of time there. We ended up
with a we can only have a max 5%
probability of being underfunded over
the next 30 years and then translated
that into an operational expected
shortfall uh five days expected
shortfall. How much money can we use on
the portfolio by translating the
long-term risk objective? With those two
things in place uh we had a common
language market value. We defined risk
and objectives in the same way and
suddenly the actuarians, the ALM people,
the risk people, the investment people
spoke the same language and I even got
responsible for all of that because we
wanted to have one one fund, one unit,
one way of thinking about things and so
we merged all the four uh divisions I
just talked about and and got going. I
think unless you have a clear objective
and risk tolerance, it's very difficult
to get going.
Um, I just
Hello. Uh, we're having some mic issues.
I just wanted to say that really
resonated with me because as a
consultant that actually is working
directly with institutions that are
trying to implement TPA for the first
time that they often have this urge to
start with the investment piece and and
oftentimes I have to tell them actually
the first thing you have to do is start
with the people piece and the part that
you need to change is the common
language. Right. It's exactly what you
said, but that common language is
invariably as you've just talked about
the risk language. In fact, one of the
large funds in North America, if you go
to the paper, of the 12 funds, three
three were from North America and not
not all of them were Canadian actually.
Some of them were American. It might
have been more. It might have been five
actually from North America, including
the the Canadians. But one of the funds
who had been struggling with this um
basically said, you know, I walk the
halls and I still hear people talking
about asset classes. And that really
just gets me because you know you're
still in SAA land when people are just
talking about asset classes. You know
that you're in TPA land when all your
organization is talking about is risk.
So we have not, you know, been
successful at changing the language. Um
and that's something we still need to
change. So, you know, I I I didn't mean
to start with you, Bion, but I'm very
glad that we ended up doing that. So,
Trevor, your word.
>> Yeah, look, I mean, so I knew you were
going to talk about language and and I
think that's a necessary condition for
the change that we're talking about. I
I, you know, always taking the other
side as well. Um, the problem with
language is as we evolve it, people like
want to hook on to that and lock that in
and then not change again. Um and
there's a flexibility in language and
and that's that's really why my my word
was outcome. Um because um we've we've
chosen language actually to describe
even the change that we've been going
through. We I'd say the first five years
were significant changes in terms of
turning from a single asset class into a
multi-asset liquid and illquid
derivatives enabled sophisticated
multi-asset portfolio. Right? suit. I
mean like that's that's a mouthful. Um
and even more complex to to manage and
put in place governance around. Um the
other point I'll pick up before I get to
outcome is that um asset owners have
nowhere to kick the risk. Right. to to
you you mentioned board a number of
times because the most um senior
governance committee within an
organization is actually where all the
risk sit right um as an asset manager
and that's really where I wanted to go
to with this outcome point um you've got
a mandate someone's given you the money
they've they've parameterized the
objectives for you right in the context
that we're all familiar with right and
and in language which is asset class
specific or product specific Um, and and
many asset managers are still product
oriented, which is where I'm glad you
got that point in, John, at the at the
end about how asset managers have to
change their language to interact with
the language that we're developing as
asset owners. So, so outcome is the word
for me because there is different roles
played by different portions of our
portfolio and we have different products
that give rise to different allocation
strategies etc. And so so understanding
the outcome from your asset class from
your chosen area of specialism in the
asset management space from where you
think you found alpha but linking that
to the outcome of the of the asset owner
has been the the piece that I think is
it is really difficult to land with
everyone. There will always be
specialists, right? there'll be
graduation of knowledge and
understanding within an investment
program of of what different people do,
right? And and and it really is a top-
down think thought around TPA,
but but then you know and on a modular
level, you're delegating TPA down to
different subbuckets and different
portions of the portfolio. And the big
theme for us um in in insurance globally
is about using our risk budget better,
right? So taking a modular and and
invariably therefore suboptimal approach
to your asset allocation
leaves money on the table leaves risk on
the table that through substitution
cross asset class and at a total
portfolio level you could actually get
better outcomes right and and and more
risk efficient outcomes or more return
efficient outcomes right for the same
risk and and so that's why bringing this
point to our to where we've applied TPA
and where we're moving into TPA is in
our private asset portfolio. So not in
our fixed income portfolio as you
mentioned there relative value has a
role right but but it's got a different
role in terms of our our asset
allocation and strategy but in our
private asset program the bulk of our
private asset program whether it's PE
whether it's um indirect real estate
whether it's private credit whether it's
venture capital all has the same bogey
right which is basically it's funded
from equities and it has to outperform
equities so whether I've given an
allocation to private credit within that
that that pot of money or whether it's
to indirect real estate. Actually, what
I'm most interested in is how quickly
will the money be deployed? How certain
am I that I will achieve my bogey, which
is equities plus a a premium. Um and and
then and then how much do I participate
in the upside that I might be able to
potentially get? So, so thinking about
outcomes outside of asset classes, but
but in terms of what we want from those
assets, regardless of asset classes, has
been our path to TPA.
>> There are a couple of things that Trevor
just mentioned in that that I think I'd
just like to highlight. One of them is
balance sheet. Almost all of the
adopters of TPA, and it's a spectrum,
but those that have moved towards the
far end of the spectrum are using their
balance sheet mentality. you know,
they're thinking about the fund as a
single balance sheet and then looking
for ways to basically capitalize on
that. Um, I'd say that's a higher
standard of TPA relative to those that
are early adopters. A couple of other
points is Trevor just took you through a
few layers of how he's thinking about um
layering on returns and he also talked
about his bogey, but I think what we
find when we're talking to people who
are now trying to adopt TPA, a lot of
them are actually starting off with an
endowment mindset, right? Not not not
necessarily because they're not pension
funds, but like the Middle East for
example is a good situation. We we copy
best practice based on what we think is
best practice at the time. Many
sovereigns thought of endowment model as
the best practice. Um but that endowment
model is also very much an SAA mindset.
It simply replaces certain asset classes
for alternatives. But what Trevor was
describing was the recognition that
there are layers of return, layers of
ways to get to whatever number it is. If
your number is 5%. You're not really
going to need these additional tools.
But if your number is 10%.
It's pretty clear that a static essay
approach, a reference portfolio, then a
static essay approach is not going to
get you there and you're leaving money
on the table. Exactly what you said,
Trevor. And so it is how do you unlock
um other sources of return to be able to
add on to that to get your target
whatever it is. If it's 10% then 10%.
John, it's been a while before we've
gotten you to speak, but can you unpack
your one word?
>> Yes. competition. So that was shorthand
for competition for capital. And you
know what I've often said, as you heard
me say that the the kind of foundational
elements that determine success of TPA
start with governance and culture, the
people element. That said, when people
ask me what what what defines or what is
the identity of TPA? How will I know
what does it look like that's so
different? So the ethos of TPA I think
is in its competition for capital. Now,
to be a bit provocative, SAA is not
competitive at the portfolio level, and
I'm going to be overly crude and and
probably unfair to most of us, uh, but
usually what happens is you've got a
policy portfolio, your asset allocation
that's usually run by the board, or
perhaps there's a committee that
includes the CIO. And then that's
assigned to the asset class heads or the
teams. And so there's bucket limits or
bucket ranges and those heads go fill up
the buckets and then it's all mashed
together and we kind of pretend that's a
proxy for diversification. This is how
again we were brought up. That is the
water we've swam in for our entire
careers that unless you manufacture or
contrive competition at the portfolio
level, you're only optimizing for the
asset classes. So you're never
optimizing at the fund level. And so
competition for capital at the at the
total portfolio, total fund level
suggests that every marginal dollar has
to earn its place. Doesn't matter what
labels or buckets it originates in. It
doesn't matter if a bucket's already
full because you're you're at least
downplaying, if not eliminating a policy
portfolio and asset allocation
completely and you're simply optimizing
around what is going to get you the
objective that your client or your
beneficiary needs. Now of course the
layer all of this is uh constrained by a
risk budget which is usually expressed
in a reference portfolio and certainly
your needs for for paying liabilities
was which is expressed in ALM and things
like liquidity budget. But with those
two constraints outside of that it
really is about for every additional
investment is this the very best use of
this next dollar regardless of labels or
buckets. So we have now spent about half
of our time focusing on you know what
are the elements of success based on our
own experience. But now I'd like us to
go back to storytelling. So practical
war stories from the field. I don't want
you to give me the happy story. Give me
like a a horror story or something. Give
me something that's interesting. Um I'm
going to start with you. Um you've had
the most experience working for um
different uh different asset owners and
I'm sure you've got some really hairy
stories in there somewhere. So, you
know, tell us how it can all go wrong or
maybe tell us how you were able to turn
around a story, but the practical
realities of actually trying to
implement this and getting people to
play ball.
>> Sure. Uh let let me try and see if I can
I can uh live up to that expectation. I
think I think one thing that I think I
realized uh
probably around 2005 or so was that how
much harm the benchmark
focus has done to organizations and and
really I I really even got a a clearer
look into that at Ontario teachers. Uh
so in some way I think you have to cut
the chains of benchmark tyranny and if
you do that and instead allocating
capital as as John said to based on risk
uh risk budgets and how much return can
you get for every risk dollar start
thinking about risk. Uh what surprised
me on the positive side was that uh you
unleash innovation and creativity and
people really start to think about if
you're running a credit book uh if you
had a benchmark that was 25% high yield,
50% investment grade, 25% emerging
market, then you could have small
deviations from that. But if you instead
give the credit team a risk budget and
tell them how much risk they can take
and you don't really care about how they
split them between different risk
or different classes asset classes
within the risk uh budget uh you
suddenly find that teams start to not
have any investment grade at all have it
all in a barbell strategy and so on. So
it less is innovation if you do that. So
that's the good part. What is the the
bad thing about benchmarks? But what I
realized was the boards they don't feel
really they didn't do so at ATP they
didn't do so at teachers they don't feel
they owe the benchmarks it's something
the CEO the CIO has recommended to them
and typically they just well that sounds
sounds about right maybe you ask the
consultants but there's no real owners
of the benchmark and you have really
moral hazard problems in most
organizations because if you have
compensation that is linked to beating
the benchmark mark hunting for alpha
doing uh excess returns then there is a
tendency in organizations to try and
recommend to the board uh benchmarks
that are easy to beat. So you have that
kind of moral hazard. I think I think
that that that was pretty telling when
there is a big international
organization that compares returns in
big pension plans. So when I did my due
diligence moving to Canada, uh it turned
out that Ontario teachers and ATP, they
both had the same return over 20 years,
very good returns compared to a lot of
other institutions. But the ATP that was
at that time much more TPA top down
focused uh had benchmarks that had
returned 2% better return than Ontario
teachers benchmarks whereas on Ontario
teachers has created 2% more alpha
because it was a bottom up go and hunt
uh find alpha so I think I think people
should really be careful thinking about
is there any owners of benchmark and how
much harm they do by limit ing uh
innovation and creativity in
organizations
>> and if you're as big as they are um OTP
or CPPIB I mean you have hundreds
possibly even thousands of people as
your alpha hunters right and so you
can't simply I'm just going to change my
model overnight
>> no I think that's true and one thing
there I think I think it has become part
of of TPA to say you have to tear down
silos I think that's wrong shouldn't
tear down silos you should connect them
and maybe you should build a top floor
level where people can meet and maybe
you have people that only works at the
top level but I think uh if you have an
organization like teachers with really
successful bottom up teams make sure you
don't ruin that you don't create chaos
keep keep the silos that work but
connect them and create some kind of an
overlayer to that
>> yeah I think that is absolutely true um
we actually when we are talking to funds
that have been so so-called successful
at TPA you know two of the big issues
that come up Number one is that the
reference portfolio turns into a
benchmark if you have them. Just in case
people are wondering, only about 50% of
the funds who have adopted TPA use a
reference portfolio. Not everybody uses
a reference portfolio, but for the ones
that have replaced SAA with a reference
portfolio, what they find is then the
board gravitates to that becoming the
new performance benchmark, which
basically defeats the whole purpose. Um,
and so that's one of the issues. The
other issues is exactly what Bian just
said. If you do not take care to manage
the alpha teams well, you will end up
disenfranchising them by moving to TPA.
And so that keeping that balance is very
tricky. John, I'm going to move over to
you because let's face it, the US has
been a lagard in terms of making any of
such adoptions. I I like to joke that
it's because it came from Canada and
Australia, but um I'm sure there are
other reasons that maybe you can tell
us. What is it that you're seeing in in
the US? Why, you know, why has it been
so hard for the US funds? Um, from your
perspective,
>> I think it's a number of things. And by
the way, a real case study is uh is
Steven Gilmore moving from Kiwi Super
over to Calpers. And so this this will
be an interesting test to your exact
question because he is uh allin and I
assure you made clear to the board
during the interview process that he
expects them to be allin and there is a
bit of a decision tree that's very
tangible decision tree coming as I
understand it in a few weeks. Um so
we're going to see um in live
technicolor how a US pension and all of
its typical dysfunctional government
possibly move this route. Um I think the
major problems that Stephen and
everybody are going to face is that look
if I'm completely honest um typically a
state punch pension or municipal pension
I is um bound and disrupted by massive
politization of the appointees. So in
some cases the governors literally
appoint some of the board members. In
other cases they are representatives of
the uh underlying beneficiaries. of
teachers, for example. Now, those create
problems, two different problems. One is
that you're you're biased by perhaps
getting reelected or perhaps a hobby
horse or an agenda. Uh and so you're not
there to release or empower the CIO
because you want to grandstand and have
kind of control of the levers. the idea
of asking these political appointees to
let go of asset allocation of risk
budget and give the CIO and it and his
or her office a lot more power is just
um I think uh uh contradictory to kind
of how they think. And then then the
representatives. Look, I I I think
anybody that runs these large teacher
funds, Calsters being the largest in the
US, loves the fact that there are actual
teachers that are representing their
constituents, but these are not
investment professionals and they don't
pretend to be. And so you've got this
combination of poorly composed, for
different reasons, poorly composed,
underoptimized boards that for for for
various reasons are disincined to be
giving more empowerment. And as a result
of that, you feel stuck and constrained.
And often what US pension CIOS will say
because they are the poster children for
strict SAA um is that I I don't even
want to bother going back to the board
to increase my venture capital piece.
You know, I've got two new potential GPS
I want to uh I want to invest in. Now,
if you're a TPA, you don't need to go
back because again, there's no bucket
that you that you exceed or that you're
under. you simply add what's best. But
in the case of an SAA that's run by a
board, uh you got to go back and often
there's two meetings or three meeting
process where they have to discuss,
consider, approve, and often the CIOS
will tell me in private, why even
bother? It's just too much trouble. By
the time I get to approval, this alpha
opportunity or the window will have will
have uh closed. And so I I think there's
just multiple disincentives in the way
they're structured around governance and
culture that make it very challenging
for a typical US pension.
>> And certainly consultants and their
benchmarks have not helped. Right. So I
should take I should own some of that as
well.
>> Yeah. You have you have not helped.
You've been created to perpetuate SAA in
many ways at least originally. I think I
think your point is excellent John in
the sense that uh sometimes people
forget how path dependent most systems
are and uh so just let me tell you a
short story about Canada and Ontario
teachers. Ontario teachers is one of the
first and oldest pension plans there. Uh
dates back to yeah way way back. Uh when
when it was formed with the proper board
uh the former governor of the central
bank in Canada uh Buouie he uh he said
he was asked if he would take the role
as chairman and he said yes sure I will.
Two conditions one professional board no
representatives from the government or
the teachers or at least just a few. And
secondly, I I want to be able to compete
with the rest of the industries. I I
want to be able to hire people that uh
can uncomp compete with the other
financial industry and and and I think
that be in some way was the starting
point for the governance model in a lot
of Canadian pension plans because a lot
of the others more or less followed that
model and that's not the case in the US.
So I think things are much more path
dependent than you would you would think
they are. the work.
>> Well, well, let's see how many US
pension plans start hiring Canadians,
you know. Um, that that that might tell
you something because I can tell you
they're hiring a lot of them in the
Middle East. Um, I'm gonna move over to
you, Trevor. This might be our the end
of our panel because we are running out
of time. You have, you know, seen or
witnessed the transformation at AIA. You
saw, you know, or created helped to
create this centralized um asset
management function here in Singapore.
I'm sure absolutely sure that that
disruption and that change comes with
lots of war stories. So you know I'm
whilst you you have already told us what
you guys have done to create almost this
quasi sovereign within an insurance
company one that can implement some
elements of TPA. I mean what did you
find the most challenging or what are
what are your practical realities?
>> Yes. So and let's bank at the same time
benchmarks and incentives and and
frictional governance. I mean, yeah,
again, all of those things in droves,
but um but the story I'll tell, and I'm
sorry it won't be as exciting as you you
um portray it, actually, Jane, is is
really this evolution of private asset
investing for us, right? Um and and how
it's so easy, taking the point about
benchmarking and and incentives,
it's so easy and actually the entire
system is oriented towards locking in on
something set and repeat. Set and
repeat. That's the asset management
industry and that's why it's product
focus, right? Um like the reason why I'm
now responsible for strategic
partnerships is we're talking to our
partners or our managers and saying we
want you to move from product to TPA,
right? Um where you've got the
multiasset capability etc. And so um so
the private asset story which I think
will resonate particularly in this part
of the world but you know given its
explosion anyway across across the whole
of capital markets and the importance of
private assets alongside public assets.
Um our our starting point is a well
doumented evolution. Right. So we
started and we we we've been um
deploying significant amounts of money
over the last three or four years into
private assets. started with funds,
right? And that creates this particular
type of interaction actually that Asia
is pretty well set up for, right? You
know, favor trading, stack them high in
a fund and basically just like basically
get get people into that fund and then
you're at the mercy of deployment rates,
draw down rates, um like LP packs to to
influence and that's the the way to
access private assets if you're starting
out, right? Um and then of course you
want to access secondaries, you want to
access co-investments like do you start
building your own your own functions who
do the underwriting or do you rely more
on managers and that's if you like part
part two and then you move fully into
customized solutions right which is
basically communicating the TPA
objectives directly to to your partners
and that's where we're going and that
has been even in a very short period of
time very difficult to navigate because
everyone, as I said, wants to come in.
They want to understand their
objectives. They want to understand how
they're getting paid. And in the context
of private assets particularly, it's a
long-term investment. Um, like how do
you argue where your value is? How do
you argue about how you should be
measured and paid, right? Um it like a
lot of the core primary providers don't
have that argument because they
participate in Gary but to what extent
you do do you participate in that
process as an asset owner um and and
your own competition for talent um point
in terms of how you need to to keep that
oversight at a certain level. That's
been the challenge that that we
continuously have to to to
create the rigor around the language and
the objectives and and so taking it all
the way back to to benchmarking our
target for TPA is an absolute return.
It's a number. It's a and and we started
with our private asset program with
that, right? So through rain or or or
sunshine basically we want a set number
and so that makes that's actually really
difficult, right? none of our um
academic literature and none of where
we've taken the the whole investment
philosophy and the and the tools that we
put in place do we know how to target a
number and and the biggest argument that
we have internally is is what's the
right number actually it doesn't really
matter what the number is always going
to be wrong right but but the idea of
targeting absolute return is is the
biggest challenge that we've got
>> y and so with that we are going to close
the panel um I I am going to leave you
with one final thought which is that
earlier I said start with people. Trevor
has just talked to you about incentives.
Um you know we are currently working
with a fund that is implementing TPA and
only one month in they've already
introduced us to their HR person because
they've come to realize that without
changing the incentives this is not
going to work. And so the final anecdote
I'll leave you with is CPPIB has
recently created a new function. So
instead of just having total fund
management, they now have one fund
management as well and it's two separate
teams. So it's like hang on, what is
this one fund management? Um what I came
to realize was that the total portfolio
management team reports into the CIO but
the total but the one fund management
team is a smaller team actually reports
in the CEO.
And the reason for that is because the
CIO does not have the power to change
incentives, right? The CIO has the power
to touch on the investment teams, but
they don't really have the power to
change incentives. And so they need that
function, the one fund management
function to be able to enable that. So
I'll leave you with that one thought.
Even CPPIB, which is considered to be
the father in some ways of TPA, is
constantly making changes to align and I
find that really interesting. With that,
thank you. Please give a round of
applause to our panel. I hope it was an
enlightening discussion.
[Music]
