[Music]
Hey everyone, uh Aaron Philbeck here at
Kai Association. Uh I am pleased to be
joined by Charles Hyde who is the head
of asset allocation for New Zealand's
superanuation fund. And uh Charles was
uh both part of the original total
portfolio approach uh paper that we
released last year as well as uh
participated in this follow-up uh piece
as well. So really excited to uh dive
into a conversation with you Charles and
thanks for uh spending some time with
me.
>> No, great to be with you. Thanks for
inviting me.
>> Great. Well uh so Charles in this second
paper that we we uh are working on uh
together uh we've taken the the
conceptual framework that we introduced
in the first TPA paper and are much more
focused on uh the practicalities of how
you transition uh from a strategic asset
allocation framework to a total
portfolio approach uh framework. So
trying to get into some of the
nitty-gritty of what that looks like. So
maybe just a first question for you is
around that transition uh from your seat
and how that started at uh NZ Super and
I guess in your mind what is the most
important first step for those who are
trying to make that transition from SAA
over to TPA.
>> Yeah, sure. Um so we set out on our
journey uh way back in 2010 um when we
adopted a reference portfolio and and
that was really for us I think the most
important um catalyst um towards
adopting a total portfolio approach and
in indeed in many ways the the
foundation of it. So um we had we
adopted a reference portfolio and at
that time the board um agreed that it
made sense for the board to focus going
forward on um on governance and for
management to take ownership of the
investing. And that might sound kind of
simple and obvious but um you know a lot
of places don't have that clarity um of
you know division of labor if you like
between governance and management and
and that great clarity that we have um
and and that was put in place at that
time that we adopted the reference
portfolio which is a governance
mechanism um has really been the
foundation of our total portfolio
approach. You know, it gave great
clarity to us as to who owns what, but
it also importantly gave management the
flexibility to take an approach to um
building a portfolio and managing it
that is different from from what um
would you you would typically see out
there um under that rubric of the um SAA
approach. It gave it allowed us to be um
more dynamic in terms of the way that we
managed the portfolio. we didn't have to
engage with the board uh with every
investment decision along the way. Um
and it also freed us from some of the
constraints um of the SAA approach. So
we weren't tied to using the kind of
classical standard asset class
definitions that you would see um in an
SAA. And it it also allowed us to um
get away from that idea of having a
fixed cycle um of of asset allocation
reviews, you know, every year or two
years or or whatever it is. It allowed
us to kind of to to return to the
allocations on a much more frequent
basis. So So that was the beginning of
our um of our total portfolio journey.
Um but you know that was as I said 15
years ago. It's certainly um by no means
the end of our journey. It's been very
much a a work in progress um over a long
period of time. Uh there have been some
meaningful um um changes to the way that
we've done things since then. Uh you
know we adopted a a risk budgeting um
approach in um 2014 or so which was a a
big step forward. And so you know going
back to to that that um split between
governance and management our board
retained two key investment decisions.
One is the structure of the reference
portfolio um you know what what
combination of um asset classes should
we have in that and they also own the
sizing of our um active risk budget that
management has to use to uh build a
better portfolio. So um yeah you know
we've we've I guess done done a lot of
things along the way to enhance um
collaboration and you know maximize if
you like the efficiency with which we
share information within the fund and um
you know more more generally um trying
to to build a culture that that
underpins that um that need to to have
strong collaboration um across the teams
u within the fund. And and lastly, you
know, one of the um one of the bigger
projects that we've been working on over
the last few years is building out our
capability um around
um providing the decision makers with
timely um quality information about the
different assets in our portfolio and
their relative attractiveness so that we
can maintain that competitive tension in
the portfolio through time.
So, so Charles, there's a lot there and
I want to I want to come back on a
couple of those points, but uh you know,
your your comment on kind of the
accountability and and the governance
structure that's put in place, I think
was one of the biggest aha moments for
us as we were going through this second
study of that implementation phase. And
it seemed like no matter uh what type of
organization or what type of portfolio
you were managing, if you truly wanted
to go from that SAA framework to a TPA
framework, it really started with that
governance and the accountability and to
use your phrase uh division of labor
between the governing body and the
investment team. Uh so, you know,
reinforces I think a lot of what uh what
you just said. I want to talk a little
bit about that kind of trade-off of of
flexibility that is afforded to the
investment team uh by the governing body
with uh risk management and you know in
some ways it's liberating to uh you know
have the board you know kind of take a
hands-off approach to the day-to-day
management. you no longer have the
prescriptive asset classes that you
mentioned um and you you can operate in
a much more fluid environment instead of
those regular reset periods that you
mentioned. But on the other hand, uh it
it kind of removes uh some of those risk
management components that naturally
come with an SAA type of framework. So
could you talk a little bit through how
you think about risk management with a
reference portfolio as a guide versus a
more prescriptive SAA type of asset
allocation that's being effectively
handed to you uh by that governing body?
>> Yeah. So um so I think in in many ways
you know we ask similar questions to to
probably most other funds out there when
it comes to thinking about risk
management. It's just that we go about
it in a different way. So yeah our
reference portfolio is the foundation of
our portfolio mostly because it sets the
risk profile of our portfolio. The
purpose of the reference portfolio at
its simplest is to convey to management
what the board's risk appetite is and
and and we management are required to
manage the portfolio um at a risk level
that's consistent with that reference
portfolio.
So um but I guess I would say one of as
far as the reference portfolio part of
it is concerned because obviously for
for us um asset allocation has two
pieces. one is the design of the
reference portfolio and the other is our
active risk budgeting uh that we do and
and that's where we get into a more
granular asset allocation work which is
more akin you might say to an SAA
approach but as far as the reference
portfolio is concerned I I guess for us
you know we we have um by design kept
our reference portfolio very simple it
only has two asset classes global
equities and global fixed income uh with
with a for allocation to New Zealand
equities within that um equity
allocation. And so um it's it's simple
but um that has the advantage I think of
bringing greater clarity to our risk
conversations. Uh we're not getting kind
of burdened down by the complexity of of
um of a portfolio that uh looks more
like what you would have say in an SAA
approach. And so um for for us you know
we we come to that reference portfolio
asking um how do we ensure um that that
reference portfolio is fit for purpose
in terms of meeting our mandate. So you
know we have a mandate which is given to
us by the government. We are a sovereign
wealth fund and so our primary purpose
uh as I said the reference portfolio is
a um an expression of the board's risk
appetite. So our primary purpose as far
as risk management goes for the
reference portfolio is to ensure that we
minimize the risks of not meeting our
mandate. So yes, the usual kinds of risk
questions which are about, you know, um
how big of a left tail uh return can you
withstand um or are you willing to
withstand um how big of draw down um are
you willing to tolerate? Those um are
very important questions for us. But
equally we are focused on well how how
low of a return over the medium to long
term is the board willing to tolerate.
So, so for us not taking on enough risk
is is a risk in itself. Uh because you
know if we only um have a small
allocation to equities in that reference
portfolio, you know, we're more or less
locking in a low return over the long
term and that doesn't really square with
our mandate which requires us to
maximize return without undue risk. So,
you know, we're taking a very balanced
approach to thinking about risk. It's
about you know how much equity risk can
we take on without um getting into
uncomfortable territory uh in terms of
draw downs but also you know what what's
the lower limit on on how much equity
risk we're able to take without um
undermining our ability to deliver on
our mandates. So it it it is very much
um a balancing act and we actually
survey our board um with very direct
questions um as to these various aspects
of risk um uh around the reference
portfolio to to try to get a sense from
them as to where their risk tolerance
lies. And obviously the board changes
over time. You get new members coming
on, others rolling off. Um and even for
those that have been on the board for
some time, you know that they are
actually quite difficult questions to
answer. Um if someone asks you what what
your minimum uh what's the minimum
return that you're willing um to
generate over a period of time. Um but
but they are the the the um really the
cornerstone questions that we ask
ourselves when it comes to thinking
about reference portfolio. The other
thing that's probably worth mentioning
is that while we while we design the
reference portfolio as a separate
exercise, we don't do that in isolation
of the portfolio that we're running. So
so there are certain design features of
that reference portfolio that actually
um will flow on to affect the actual
portfolio that that we are running in
the fund. So for example um in the past
we have always um hedged the portfolio
uh to mirror the hedging policy in the
reference portfolio. Well that that
brings liquidity considerations to bear
in the actual portfolio and so we have
them in mind when we're setting um say
the hedge ratio or the the the currency
exposure of the uh reference portfolio.
So it's a it's a holistic approach that
we bring. Um we are designing a
reference portfolio. It is our
benchmark. Um so you know it's as I said
it's a governance um mechanism but we
don't do it um in ignorance of of what
some of the flow on effects of those
decisions um will be. And so as I
mentioned earlier the risk budgeting um
that we uh do uh which is to say taking
the risk budget that the board have
given us which um is currently a 4%
tracking error relative to the reference
portfolio. That's the other key asset
allocation exercise that we engage in
and that's at a much more granular
level. Um and it takes into account you
know the goodly constraints um obviously
the size of the disposal that we have to
work with and any other you know
relevant constraints um around
particular um asset classes or subasset
classes that we're getting into. And so
that's kind of a bit closer to what you
might think of as a more standard SAA
approach um to to um allocation.
So Charles, I want to pick up on that
last point which is the the portfolio
and how how the portfolio has changed
over this journey. So starting back in
2010 all the way to to present. Um talk
through how as you've gone through this
journey from SAA to TPA. Uh what what
have the uh trends been within the
portfolio in terms of asset classes that
you may have invested in that you no
longer do invest in or new asset classes
or strategies that have been introduced
as a result of uh moving towards TPA.
And then maybe a follow on to that is
the relationships that you've built and
partnerships you've built with the
external managers uh that you utilize
and how have those changed over time.
Okay. So, um it as I said earlier, it's
been u we've been on this journey for 15
years. So, um the the pre and post um is
it it's it wasn't a big bang uh where
you can kind of easily say, okay, this
is what it looked like before and this
is what it looked like after. It's
something that's it's been a slow burn,
you could say, and it's um it's evolved
over time. that um but I I guess if I
have to point to one thing that changed
and it did change um at right around the
time that we adopted the reference
portfolio construct which I said earlier
was I think the foundation of that total
portfolio approach and and the
delegations associated with that um the
changes um was that we adopted uh what
we call a a strategic tilting program
which is an internal DAA program that we
Um and so um that was adopted
essentially to um allow us to you know
tilt um around the major asset classes
um through time in a in a fairly dynamic
fashion. You know we have this we we now
have this reference portfolio which is
which we only review every five years.
So it's fairly fixed in time, but you
know in in um accordance with um you
know our desire to be more dynamic uh we
we needed something like the strategic
tilting program to allow us to move the
portfolio around as um the
attractiveness of different asset
classes uh waxed and waned. So um that
that was a key um uh difference to our
portfolio um pre and post and I think it
it remains something that's fairly
distinctive for our fund partly because
of its performance which has been you
know quite exceptional but also and
perhaps also the fact that we're willing
to size it um at at the level that we
do. So it it does take up a good portion
of our active risk budget and so I I
think it's you know it's quite
distinctive in that way and and I guess
you know the the performance and the
sizing are not unrelated um it's
something that we started off small um
as it um proved itself up we were um you
know we got more comfortable with it and
we were willing to allocate um more risk
to it but I I think you know my take is
that if um if we were still running a
more traditional approach, we probably
wouldn't have got to the point where
we've um given it the allocation that we
have. And and the way I think about it
is that, you know, in a more typical SAA
approach, you'd make an allocation to
all of the major asset classes. You'd
make an allocation to alternatives. Then
within that alternatives allocation, you
kind of suballocate to a number of
different things, global macro and maybe
some trend and and whatever else. Um
whereas we allocate directly to um
strategic tilting um along with low
things. So our allocation
occurs um directly at a more granular
level in that um risk budgeting um
exercise that that we do. So that I
think is certainly one thing that stands
out for me as being um quite a big
difference pre and post um
implementation of our total portfolio
approach. And then the other thing that
happened when we um when we did make
that change was that we went through and
kind of cleaned out the portfolio. So we
actually terminated a lot of strategies
and managers which which we just felt
that when when we looked at it from that
total portfolio perspective
there just wasn't a strong rationale for
for how all of that fitted together. And
so we got rid of, you know, quite a few
um hedge fund strategies and and we
terminated um uh quite a few managers um
at that time. And there was a real focus
for a while on having what we used to
refer to as fewer deeper manager
relationships
um and and really just kind of
consolidating the portfolio down to
something that was more coherent, you
could say. So, so that was another
change that there was a real kind of
clean out of the portfolio um in the
first few years after adopting um the
reference uh well the reference
portfolio and total portfolio
approaches. Um the the other thing that
was notable and I think distinctive was
that we we were more comfortable um not
necessarily having all asset classes
represented in our portfolio. And this
goes back to that that idea that you
know um you you want to have competitive
tension in your portfolio and you want
to be including those things that are
attractive and being um
being willing to to not include things
that are are not attractive. So for
example, you know, there was a period
there when for a few years when we
didn't have any real estate to speak of
in our portfolio, which I think you
would agree is quite a distinctive um
makes it a distinctive portfolio
relative to most of our peers. Um
although you know that said as we've
grown in size you we acknowledge that it
becomes harder and harder to you know
pivot into and out of a whole asset
class um through time. So uh there there
are some things you can do in a total
portfolio approach um when you're small
that you can't do when you're large. And
I'm not saying by any means that we're
large on the global scale. Um but you
know the way that we think about uh the
total portfolio approach I think is
slightly different from the way that
some of our peers think about it who are
much larger and who just can't kind of
do the things that we do because we are
after all still a relatively small um
player on the global stage.
Um
yeah, but I I think really at the end of
the day, it's it's more about the the
mentality that we bring um with the
total portfolio approach. So, you know,
instead of just asking the simple
question, does this new investment uh
clear its or beat its cost of capital,
we're we're much more cognizant of how
does how does this new investment fit
into the the puzzle of our broader
portfolio? How does it impact on our
tail risk? How does it impact in
particular on the liquidity risk that we
have? Um and you know how how
diversifying is it um as an alpha source
say relative to the other alpha sources
we have? What are the factor exposures
that it brings and how does that align
with what we're trying to achieve from a
total portfolio perspective?
>> Wonderful. Well, Charles, I really
appreciate your time and and walking
through uh some of these uh these
additional questions and case studies.
And again, appreciate your contribution
both uh to the original piece that we
put out uh last year and then being part
of this follow-up piece. I think uh the
industry is going to benefit uh from
your expertise and learning a little bit
more about how you've made this
transition over the past uh several
years. So, uh thanks again. Really
appreciate it.
>> Well, it's a pleasure, Aaron. Thanks for
having me.
[Music]
