[Music]
Hi, I'm Steve Novakovich, managing
director KA curriculum here at Kaya
Association. Today I'm going to chat
with you about the fourth key dimension
of TPA, culture.
So you've already heard about the first
three dimensions, governance, factor
lens, and competition for capital. And
in my opinion, culture is the most
important of those four dimensions, but
is also the hardest to define. So, I'm
going to try to take a moment to tell
you a little bit about what culture
means to TPA and what you as an analyst
and investment professional uh working
in a TPA environment or looking to take
advantage of some of the benefits of TPA
uh can do to enhance culture and focus
on culture in your workplace.
So, as I mentioned, culture is pretty
hard to define. We all know what culture
means. We all understand the concept of
culture. Uh but what does culture have
to do with TPA? Or maybe to say it
differently, how is the culture for TPA
different from any other culture? Well,
to start off with, I just want to point
out again with with governance, with
factor lens, these are things that can
be written down in terms of a governance
structure or tracked in the case of a
factor lens. And you can more easily
show that to your board, to your staff,
to the people who are in the work
environment. They can see what factors
you're tracking. They can see what the
governance documents look like. Culture
isn't something that you can necessarily
as easily write down and codify. Um,
some firms attempt to do so and try to
highlight what the important aspects of
their culture is. But ultimately,
culture is something that can really be
living and breathing and it's organic.
It takes the entire team to build,
foster, develop, and nurture. And one of
the things that's very important about
an effective culture is it requires full
buyin from the entire investment
organization and is a something that
requires constant work. when we talked
with uh folks who operate within a TP
environment, that's one of the things
they talked about regularly was the
importance of always keeping an eye on
the culture and always developing it and
fostering it and maintaining it. And
that that was an element that was really
essential to the ongoing success of
their investment organization was never
stepping back and uh losing focus of the
importance of the culture. And if
someone more senior in the organization
needed to have a conversation with an
employee about their contribution to the
culture, those conversations would take
place.
We probably already all know these
elements, but just to reinforce it, a
good culture, the benefits include
things such as reduced turnover, more
engaged employees, more satisfied
employees, and frankly, when you've got
engaged, satisfied, long-term employees,
we all know that that's going to just
generally improve outcomes across the
investment organization. And so it
shouldn't be uh too um uh hard to say
that culture is something that can be
very very beneficial to the outcomes of
an organization. And just to reiterate
the point becomes very important to the
success of TPA
given all of this unique elements
associated with TPA. So, what are some
of the things that you can do to help
grow the culture, foster the culture, or
participate in the culture that
typically is associated with TPA?
Well, every organization is going to be
a little bit different, and certainly
every element that I'm going to talk
about from a culture standpoint may not
precisely exist within every TPA
adherent. But that being said, these
were some of the things that we noticed
when we were talking with different
folks uh that utilize TPA. First and
foremost, going back to one of the key
dimensions, competition for capital, one
of the elements that comes out or there
actually several elements that come out
from competition from capital that
really inform and are uh required within
the culture of the organization are
things such as collaboration.
When you have competition for capital,
that means that you collectively are
aligning around the best ideas and
working together on putting the best
elements into the portfolio. You may
come forward with an idea that you
really like and then when you're
discussing the alternative investment
options with your colleagues, realize
that there's a better opportunity in the
marketplace right now than the one that
you identified. in which case then
you're doing all you can to support that
idea and promoting it within the
portfolio. So in a lot of ways TPA is a
very very collaborative team oriented
joined up mindset. And so to to thrive
and to succeed in a TPA workplace, the
culture needs to be one of employees who
are collaborative. And the term we use
in the paper and we hear from um several
of the TPA adherence is joined up. The
one firm mindset super essential. None
of us can uh have our own uh you know
superstar status if you will. We all
have to recognize that we're all rowing
in the same direction, working for one
common goal and supporting our our team
and our organization in meeting that
goal.
Another element that also is associated
with competition for capital is the
ability to be open to being challenged.
The ability to be able to have
conversations that can uh be a bit sort
of direct and not necessarily
confrontational but uh challenge your
colleagues to think outside the box or
to be open to a different idea. In a lot
of ways, you have to be comfortable with
change.
uh and and having these conversations
again about hey this idea you brought
forward is not a bad idea but we've got
something better or did you think about
it this way? And so again it's we can be
professional in those conversations but
also you can't be um uh uh afraid to
have those conversations but it also
means you have to be comfortable uh with
being challenged and not operate with
too thin of a skin. And so that's
another element that's really important
for people to succeed in TPA is having
the ability to be comfortable with those
conversations and having a comfortable
receiving being comfortable receiving
those conversations. And so some people
aren't able to thrive in those types of
environments. Uh conflict avoidance is
something that people can have as a
characteristic or they might not uh feel
confident being able to talk with a
colleague about um something that might
conflict um and and uh uh seem as though
they're being aggressive or so forth.
And so if everyone understands that
these challenging conversations, these
uh uh uh conflicts, if you will, are all
uh intended to create a better
portfolio, better investments, and
better outcomes, then we can all operate
in a way knowing that this isn't
anything personal and it's for the
greater good of of the investment
organization. But again that can be a
very a different way of approaching uh
and different kinds of conversations
than people are comfortable having. And
again the culture has to uh understand
that these conversations are personal.
And so a culture that is one that u is
open to being challenged and is
comfortable with being challenged and
doesn't take those types of things as
being uh personal attacks or anything
else. that's really essential in uh the
culture for TPA in my observation.
And then one more point on this would be
uh that this isn't necessarily connected
with uh competition for capital but with
many of the elements of the key
dimensions we talked about is that this
the culture also needs to be one that
has a degree of nimleness that uh allows
for dynamism and opportunism in the
investment process. uh and like I
mentioned a moment ago with being
challenged also comfortable with change.
So this is a culture in which hey you
might be spending the last year and a
half working on infrastructure investing
because that's the great opportunity and
then suddenly that market opportunity um
m goes uh and becomes less um um
interesting for the investor and now the
best place to look is in venture capital
as an example and to be able to then
reallocate resources, reallocate your
time and be open to moving to a
different segment of the portfolio and
spending more time in a different area.
uh that's something again that is really
beneficial within the culture for TPA
investors. When you look at the
structure of teams within TPA, there are
certainly specialists, but we see many
organizations that have uh individuals
who work with multiple hats and don't
just focus on one specific segment of
the marketplace or have the willingness
and ability to uh collaborate with other
teams on certain projects and be helpful
uh to support on other projects. And so
it might be the case that their primary
focus is on infrastructure, but they
help and support someone who's working
on a hedge fund investment or so forth.
And so again, this one team mindset
means that you as an investor uh are
comfortable kind of shifting gears and
moving from one segment of the market to
another uh when the opportunities arise.
And so those are really important
elements of a healthy culture uh in the
TPA market where you have engaged
employees uh who are um comfortable
working together focusing on the
investment outcomes for the entire firm
as opposed to their specific portfolio.
uh and are looking to be collaborative
with their other colleagues. Have
challenging direct conversations about
what the best investments are for the
portfolio and being willing to pivot and
move uh across the portfolio across
investment opportunities uh and across
their different types of analysis uh as
the opportunities arise. So, one final
thing to consider, maybe you're thinking
about uh moving to a firm that uses TPA
or you're looking to bring TPA into your
firm. One of the things that we took
away when we talked with folks who have
transitioned to TPA from more
traditional models was they did have to
have conversations with their employees
about what this new culture would look
like. And it turns out that there were
some folks who felt that they weren't
going to be able to fit into that
culture. And so that did result in some
employee turnover within those first
couple of years. And so that's something
that you need to really be cognizant of
if you're looking to make that move
either externally or internally within
your firm is is this a culture that
you're interested in participating in
number one. And two, uh is this a
culture that you uh who who do you think
within your organization uh would be
able to fit within this culture? And
there are there are some people who you
might need to have conversations with
about transitioning to that culture and
and seeing what you can do to support
them in that transition. So it is really
important to point out that this type of
a culture isn't for everybody and that
they're uh the firms that do make those
transitions will have some degree of
employee turnover because it's essential
to have everybody in the organization be
comfortable with and embracing this
culture. And if you can't, then that's
going to be really problematic for the
success of the organization. And
therefore, it would probably make sense
to have those employees transition to a
firm that has a culture that's more
suitable for their own style. So with
that, uh I good luck with uh your work
and hopefully you find uh that this is a
culture that's something that uh
interests you and that you can embrace
and support and bring this uh mindset
into your organization or whatever
organization you may end up moving into.
[Music]
