[Music]
Well, uh, welcome back to another
conversation around, uh, this crossing
the threshold piece that we just
recently, uh, released here at Kai
Association. Uh, as usual, I'm excited
to have one of the authors and
contributors to, uh, this piece with me
today. uh we're going to talk through
some of the concepts uh that they
covered um as part of their uh
contributions to the overall piece. Um
so I'm uh joined today by uh Shannon
Soshia who's the chief investment
officer of NB private wealth and uh the
last contributor of the uh the piece who
kind of closes out uh our journey. So
excited to get into things and uh
Shannon, thanks so much for joining me.
>> Thanks so much for having me, Erin.
So Shannon, I thought, you know, as we
kind of laid this piece out and uh were
talking about the concept of a journey
um to integrating alts um into a
portfolio, I thought it might make sense
just to start with you as an investment
professional and the fact that you
started in the long only space and made
that transition into alts relatively
early in alts uh life cycle. Uh would
love for you to just talk about your
journey uh some things that you learned
as an investment professional.
>> Sure, I'd love to. uh and it and it has
been quite the journey and I think it's
one of those journeys that will likely
continue and so uh one that you can
learn a little bit more every single
year. Um but to your point you know I
started in the in the wealth management
industry back in 2006 and had come from
more of a institutional consultant uh
track and entering into a very small
registered investment advisor sub a
billion dollars in 2006. As you can
imagine, most of that um exposure, if
you will, was was in the long only
space. We did have, I would say, some
very limited exposure to privates, but
it tended to be investments that our
clients had been introduced to outside
of their relationship with us. And as
you recall in 2006 2007 there was just
starting to be a real push to move
investments from the institutional world
into that you know sort of multif family
office space or RAA space you know
especially for larger clients in the RAA
space but there wasn't a lot of activity
uh and I think so even for those of us
who in that in those first couple of
years 2006 2007 uh any progress that we
really made in looking at alternatives
as uh a part of an overall allocation
sort of ground to a halt in late 2008
and early 2009. But what was really
interesting is what did work during that
period. And I think a big part of my
transition in moving from really
focusing primarily on long only equity
strategies was looking at some of the
strategies that were able to withstand
the the GFC. those strategies that did
actually have uh either an edge if you
will from an intellectual perspective or
a process perspective and those that
were just uh either non-correlated or
very loosely correlated to what was
happening in the market and that was
really a thrust if you will or an
impulse following the GFC that you know
there is there there is life outside of
the long only equity space in particular
um but even in the in the fixed income
space and I think the challenge there
was sort of finding you know those
opportunities um usually especially if
you were in a a smaller registered
investment advisor around that time that
those those great opportunities weren't
necessarily trickling down and so you
did have to go out and really look for
them and tap institutional colleagues
tap those access points that we had
thought about being available during you
know those periods. they weren't as
readily available as they are today, but
they really did create a foundation for
some of my learnings and my transition
into the alternative space.
>> That's great. And and Shannon, you've
you've been CIO at three different
organizations now, so have probably gone
through a couple of journeys within the
organization more broadly just outside
of yourself uh as an investment
professional. Could you just talk a
little bit about uh maybe how diff the
different organizations that you've been
at have approached alternatives uh from
a broader organizational perspective and
maybe some bumps along the way things
that you learned uh success stories that
you found as you started to integrate
both maybe the hedge fund uh but also
private markets space into client
portfolios.
>> Sure. I I would say initially, you know,
in the in the organization such as
Boston Private, our inclusion and our
work on alternatives was, you know, in
part proactive, but in many cases
reactive. We were managing large family
assets. We were hearing from
particularly next-gen clients about the
things that they were hearing about in
their in their professional networks and
their personal networks. And so
realizing that, you know, we needed to
be looking around the corner uh for
opportunities rather than looking at
what we were doing or the firms next to
us were doing in order to make sure that
we remained very much relevant for this
next gen of clients. And so I think at
Boston Private, a lot of a lot of those
clients had never invested in
alternatives. they were very hesitant
about illquidity. Uh and they really um
they they looked at liquidity as as
safety. Uh and in many cases that you
know takes um that takes some time to
overcome that particular hurdle. When we
moved on to SVB, as you can imagine,
just given the different client base
there, the amount of founders for whom
we were managing their wealth, their
familiarity with not only early stage
venture, but you know, all the way to
angel investing in terms of being at the
genesis of some of these uh some of
these companies experiences. Uh it was
more about what how you could build a
programmatic approach to alternatives.
And so whereas you know with a a certain
type of client base for whom their
environment has has created wealth for
them really outside of you know the
public markets. This community was in
many cases catalyzed to their wealth
through the public markets. But earlier
on in the journey is where they really
monetized that opportunity. And so now
you know in at NB private wealth we have
a little bit of a combination of all of
those things. you know, we have um
generational wealth that we're managing
for. We certainly have a number of
business owners and entrepreneurs. Um
but we also have this this really
important nextgen contingent for whom we
understand there are so many
opportunities in the investment universe
for these clients and they're really
looking for us to curate, synthesize,
and deliver what makes the most sense
for them. And I think that's where you
have to really widen your aperture and
look across public and private because
our clients are sophisticated enough
that they're hearing about those
opportunities whether we're talking to
them about them or not.
>> Yeah, I think that's a good point and I
love kind of the the difference of of
coming ac u from public to private and
then almost private to public and the
diversification story rings true
regardless of where you're at um in the
life cycle. And that brings me to um in
your piece uh you talk a lot about
setting expectations with clients um
alts and and you can that's a broad term
but a lot of alternatives belong at the
core of the overall portfolio and I
think that rings true regardless of
which uh you know which type of client
profile uh you're talking about. Could
you talk about as you were setting
expectations with clients whether it is
that long only client that's moving into
alts or the private market um you know
founder entrepreneur that's you're
trying to diversify outside of maybe uh
aggressive early stage venture. How do
you set expectations uh with with some
of those clients and what have you found
has actually resonated um and gone over
well with some of those clients as you
set those expectations?
Well, there there certainly have been
some hurdles uh as as all of us are very
well aware. Um you know, there have been
several years that were buoied by very
low if zero if not zero interest rates
that created a lot of opportunities
particularly in the public equity
market. And so when you're achieving
really what what could be described as
um somewhat persistent outsized returns
when you look at a 10-year period back
through say you know 2010 or so and you
think about kind of 2010 2020 and then
obviously with what we experienced in
2023 just the rationale for you know as
a comparison to what you could
potentially achieve in private markets
versus what you're experiencing in
public markets. you know, that delta is
is sometimes hard to justify. I also
think that there's a a a there's a I
think there's a challenge for wealth
management professionals and that we're
always looking to try to simplify our
clients lives and alternatives in their
nature, they appear to be more complex.
And so the way that we overcome those
objections is we really highlight for
our clients understanding, you know, the
depth and breath of the investment
universe. And that that if you think
about a uh an iceberg for instance, how
much of that is underneath the water?
That's really what you see in the
private markets. There's so much. And if
you look at an asset class like small
cap, for instance, and you look at the
decline in the number of publicly listed
small cap companies, well, there's still
plenty of companies out there. They're
just not public, right? And so trying to
highlight with metrics, it's you don't
want to use the fear factor. You don't
want to talk to clients about what
they're missing out on if they don't get
into this particular deal. You really
want to talk to them about in order to
be able to create that desired outcome.
You want to be able to tap all of the
different areas of potential return and
be able to balance out the risk in
certain areas. And so I think that's the
the analogy, if you will, that that we
found to be successful with talking
about clients is just really factual,
setting the stage for them, talking
about the changes in market dynamics,
talking about the opportunities that are
available outside of the public markets,
not scaring them that they're missing
out on those, but really just saying,
you know, if if we're looking to develop
for you a diversified multi-asset
portfolio that can that can deliver your
outcomes, public and private should be
in both in that conversation along that
frontier.
>> Yeah, I I love that uh that point and
you look at stats. I mean there's
there's a lot out there around just on
the equity side, you know, 87 to 90% of
companies are are private in the states
at least. And so uh there's a whole
opportunity set whether you invest or
not you should at least consider it. And
you think about that on the debt side
too. And if I could just add on the on
the fixed income side, you know, a lot
of what's happened from a financing
perspective, from a credit perspective
historically was sitting within banks
and a lot of those business lines,
particularly those tertiary business
lines that you know were difficult to
scale or were more esoteric, uh those
have really been, I would say, abandoned
in many cases by typical financeers. And
so you look at that liquidity need on
the credit side and a lot so that's much
harder to track because there aren't
these kind of big broad indices that
show this quantitative decline. Um but I
think it's important if you just look
through to bank balance sheets and you
think about the lines of business and
you think about the areas in which they
have concentrated their loan growth. Um
that's not because those opportunities
to lend aren't out there. It's because
they require that additional level of
work or potentially taking on a level of
risk that those banks are not as
comfortable today underwriting as they
maybe were 10 years ago.
>> Yeah, exactly. Just because the uh
supply went away doesn't mean the demand
uh is not. Yeah, exactly. Um so Shannon,
uh maybe a question on on the practical
side. So if if uh there's a newcomer who
is new to alts uh they want to cross
that threshold to use the the title of
the piece and really start to think
strategically about integrating alts
into their clients portfolios. What
advice do you have for them in terms of
starting where should they start? Um any
tools that you would recommend uh to get
them on that first part of the journey?
>> First and foremost you know just
understand the structures and the
strategies that are out there in your
seat as an adviser. There's so many
opportunities for education that are
available, you know, whether it's
through Kaya or other means, you know,
throughout um the arsenal that we have.
There's so many ways that you can become
educated and confident on those areas.
And then really think about what your,
you know, what is your client's time
horizon? What is their life cycle? Um,
the worst thing that you can do is go to
a client who hasn't had any alternatives
experience and is is is uncomfortable or
potentially uncomfortable with
illiquidity um and offer them something
with a 12-year term and four extensions
and they're looking at you know a 15
16year experience to understand whether
that worked. Uh so I think if you if
you're looking at particularly from a
private client perspective but really
even with institutions perhaps that
haven't had uh alternatives or private
markets exposure thinking about okay are
there strategies in which you start to
see some distribution of capital a
little bit earlier because that's the
metric that return metric like how am I
doing how am I experiencing this
investment that can keep them uh in
their seats it can also support you know
moving from core positioning to a more
pro programmatic approach over time. So
I think with core if you think about
private equity you know there's a lot of
private core private equity strategies
and um you can go with the fund of funds
for instance and that provides you some
diversification. Secondaries are a great
opportunity for um investors who are
looking for a little bit of that shorter
J curve that payback to come a little
bit faster um to have those
distributions potentially offset some of
their capital calls. Uh and then looking
out on the debt side, you know, thinking
about it in terms of maybe something
shorter duration because again, you
start to see the results of your
investment. That gives you some
confidence that although you can't look
it up on your um on your phone every day
and and look at the price and how it's
doing, it does give you that confidence
that there's a strategy there. And then
the the final thing is really to set
appropriate client expectations, but
also to keep them updated. in in many
cases there's limited liquidity or no
liquidity for these investments. So I
think sometimes advisors are sort of
adopt a set it and forget it approach in
terms of you know well there's nothing
really to report there's you know we'll
get numbers at the end of the quarter or
things are on a you know a quarter or
six month lag and so that's actually
very counter um productive in terms of
trying to build that foundation over
time. you should move from okay we we've
set the stage we've given you the
expectations now we're starting to see
capital being called why is it being
called what's the opportunity set and
then as distribution start to occur talk
about what worked what didn't work how
you know really dig into that
performance with the client they might
not might not be looking to they might
might not be able to make a an explicit
decision on getting out of that
investment at that time but it just
gives them that greater comfort And it
also sets the stage again for that
vintage year diversification for that
continuation over time. And then the
final thing is evergreen vehicles. Um
there are more evergreen vehicles
available and for some clients who don't
want to have to make that sort of re-up
decision every couple of years. Uh those
offer, you know, they generally have
some liquidity um even if it's limited
from a tender perspective, but they also
are, you know, in the market on a a
monthby-month, year-by-year basis. And
so your client can put an initial
position in, then they potentially add
to it. So it just gives a lot of
flexibility in terms of getting people
into a position feeling really
comfortable about it. But there is a
huge onus on the advisor to continue
those conversations and make sure the
client still understands two, three,
four years from now why they made that
initial allocation, how it's doing, and
that how you know what's sort of the
next thing on the horizon that they
should be thinking about.
>> Yeah, I love that. and and what you've
described as a journey, Shannon. So,
that that works really well uh with all
of this. And I I like the idea of easing
into it and it's no longer really binary
at this point. It's not, you know, fully
liquid mutual fund and then just go over
to a draw down fund. There's so many
options in between to kind of dip your
toe in the water, uh if you will. Um so,
Shannon, before we sign off, any final
thoughts or or words you want to share,
uh with the uh with the audience? Well,
I personally am pleased that we have so
much discussion around private markets
in our industry today. I think from a
wealth management perspective, um it's
been really nice for me to see the
increased engagement at the advisor
level, the increased engagement at the
client level. Um but you know with that
there comes some questions around you
know the sustainability of the returns,
you know, is there too much capital? Um
we've had some really interesting and
perhaps uh anomalous uh exit years in
the last four years where we went from a
lot of exits to very few exits. And so I
think that there are some concerns. And
so um you know my guidance and and our
view is that private markets should be
for the longer term uh a part of your
portfolio and that you know this
additional transparency this additional
level of dialogue and discussion um is
actually great for the industry and it's
great for individual client outcomes
because the more educated that we all
are the better that we can assess these
investment opportunities and determine
what's suitable in terms of getting to
that long-term outcome. Not everything
is suitable for every client, but with
this enhanced education, discussion,
dialogue, I think that we'll all be in a
better place five years from now. Um,
and certainly 10 or 15 years from now
when those lines between private and
public are going to be much more blurred
if if non-existent.
>> Well, I can't take the other side of
that. Uh, well, Shannon, thanks so much
for your thoughts and thank you for your
contributions to this piece. I'm excited
for uh for people to read it and to see
it. Thank you so much, Aaron.
[Music]
