[Music]
Uh today I'm joined by Sandy Call who's
the senior vice president of Franklin
Templeton and one of the contributing
authors to this uh piece. So I'm excited
to uh bring some of these concepts that
we wrote about to life. And uh Sandy,
welcome to the conversation.
>> Thank you so much Eron. My pleasure to
be here.
>> Great. Well, uh, so Sandy, you you've
been in this, uh, kind of space where
you've you've written a lot about the
industry, whether it's, you know,
changes in particular asset classes or
just the industry as a whole. And I'd
love for you to just kind of talk about
your observations maybe over the past
uh, 101 15 years uh, as in finance
generally and kind of the investment
industry and then maybe we can hone in a
little bit more on some of the things
that you've seen particularly in the
private markets and the alternative
space.
>> Yeah, great. I think that uh we've been
in a very I think transformative period
for the financial industry. Uh we've
really seen a huge acceleration of some
trends that were just beginning prior to
the global financial crisis in 2008. Um
and we started to see these trends
really begin to gain speed um in that
post period beginning 2009 2010. And you
can really think of these as a barbell,
right? uh on one side you really saw the
rapid uh and and very extensive adoption
of passive funds first in the US
particularly the ETF structure because
of the tax advantages that ETFs gave
over mutual funds. uh and that has
accelerated to the point that for the
first time in 2023 we actually had more
AUM in passive funds in the United
States than in active funds which is an
amazing milestone if you think about
that the fact the industry was almost
100% active 30 years earlier. Um
meanwhile you've also had this
accelerating trend on the opposite side
of the B barbell where you have seen
more and more money moving out of any
publicly traded markets even out of a
lot of the hedge fund strategies that
operated in publicly traded markets and
into private assets. Private equity has
been the primary recipient of this
money, but we've seen the emergence of
the private debt markets after the Basel
3 rules came into place and banks
started backing out of some types of
lending. We've also seen the emergence
of new types of infrastructure products
as we've started to really go through
this Korean transition that the world is
looking at. Uh and you've seen highs and
lows in the real estate markets. So
you've seen a lot of money come into
alternatives on one side of the barbell
and into passive on the other side of
the barbell which has left our
traditional active managers really
struggling to find the right strategies
that are going to really differentiate
them. uh the more we're able to isolate
return streams and this has really been
aided by better risk tools, better
analysis tools, uh we've been able to
isolate more of the factors that have
really been driving returns, turn them
into indexes and let them be passive.
So, you're really seeing this splitting
of the asset management industry.
And Sandy, one of the things that we
talk about in uh in this piece is the
whole kind of journey um to to
alternatives, particularly on the retail
side. And your your piece is kind of, if
I could make the analogy and extend it a
little bit further, you're you're the
worldbuing part um of of the narrative
of the hero or heroine's journey that we
see typically in movies and books and
and all that kind of stuff. So you you
there's a lot of really good uh data
that you're sharing, a lot of good
trends uh specifically uh that you're
sharing as you're building that world.
So as you think about that narrative of
the the journey um if you will and that
world that you've built um in this
piece, where do you think we are in
terms of kind of alternative adoption um
whether it's on the product side um you
know attitudes uh from the advisor
community? There's a lot that you can go
there. Um, in terms of where you where
we you think we are, but in that world
building scenario, where do you think uh
we currently sit?
>> I love the analogy, Erin. I've always
wanted to build worlds. So, here we go.
Um, so I think that, you know, first
let's just talk about the implications
of the barbell, right? As more money
moved out of the public markets and into
the private markets, you've started to
see, particularly in the developed
markets significantly in the US, you've
seen fewer and fewer companies going
public, right? There has been plenty of
money available for private um funds uh
from private funds to be able to fund
companies. And you're starting to see
this very odd shift in the capital
raising pattern where instead of going
to market while they're still small cap
or midcap, many companies are now
waiting until they're large cap or even
unicorns to go to market. And they're
not going to market to raise capital
like they did in another period. They're
going to market typically to help their
employees monetize all of these
outstanding um options and stock equity
and uh stock and equity that they have
in the company.
So that has really disadvantaged many
individual investors. It's been great
for institutions and for the high netw
worth investors that had the
qualifications and the time horizon to
be able to be in these private funds,
but it's really been very difficult for
individual investors because a lot of
the growth opportunities that they were
able to access in the past have shifted
out of the public and into the private
markets and that has really set the
stage for this interest in retail. um
alternatives in trying to think about
new rappers that offer more liquidity uh
and allow retail investors to have to
have uh to be able to share in some of
these exposure to the private funds. Um
there has been mixed uptake of this,
right? I think that the structures
themselves while more liquid are still
not as liquid as public markets of
course. Um they're also a little
confusing, right? There's a lot of kind
of uh new terminology that a lot of
adviserss have to learn to be able to
put people into the funds. Um there's a
lot of facilitators that they have to
work with they've never worked with
before that are creating the feeder
funds or creating the share classes that
allow these access to these vehicles. uh
and that creates some anxiety for
adviserss because adviserss like to be
portable and move their book if they
change firms and you can't really move
uh from these platforms and I think that
there's also been some concern right
that you know is this an appropriate
investment for many individuals who
really do need liquidity sometimes upon
demand right things happen you lose your
job uh a parent gets ill a child gets
ill someone has to go to college right
there's times that you need liquidity as
an individual
uh that you can't always plan for like
an institution can. And so there has
been uptake. I think that you're
starting to see more interest, but it's
it's a big educational hurdle. Uh it's a
systems hurdle, an operational hurdle.
Uh and it it's also just a a mindset
shift hurdle that people are having to
get used to and advisors don't want to
put clients into something that they
don't understand and can't explain. So
we are seeing uptake. I think that it
will continue to grow. Uh but it's going
to take as you say a journey.
>> Yeah. And I and I like the analogy of uh
of the barbell that you've talked about.
And if I kind of extend that a little
bit further, there's the whole, you
know, past 1015 years. We've kind of
gotten used to um the operational
element of that getting much easier and
easier. Now we're almost going back um
and and kind of uh trying again. Uh and
maybe 101 15 years from now it gets a
little bit easier. I don't know. You
have your crystal ball.
>> Not that hopefully not that long.
>> Well, great. I I want to spend a little
bit of time on the the access uh
comments that you made. So, in your
piece, you talk about uh the different
uh fund vehicles that have come to
market, whether it's interval funds or
feeder funds, BDC's, non-traded REITs
that kind of sit in that in between
phase of, you know, fully liquid, fully
illquid. But then there's kind of that
that last bullet point that you talk
about and I know you've done a lot of
work on uh digital assets, tokenization
technology around that and that's almost
uh maybe it's a different animal, maybe
it's not, but could you just talk about
um what you've seen in terms of um the
trai I guess the quoteunquote
traditional vehicle access of the the
affformentioned uh uh vehicles versus
the tokenization access. And we've seen
a couple of launches in this space, but
would love your thoughts there, too.
Yeah. Um I'd say we're in the
experimentation phase to really kind of
understand what is the structures that
are going to work well, right? Uh and
Europe will be joining this
experimentation phase, I think more
fully this year with the new LTIF rules
that they have coming into place in 2024
as well, which will help strengthen
their ability to experiment with
products. Um but so far all the
traditional products from either you
know the regulated uh 33 act and 40 act
side in the US or from the usage side in
Europe and internationally they have to
fit certain rules around how redemptions
can work how frequently uh you're able
to rotate uh capital in or out of the
fund. Um, and these are new things,
right, for um, most advisors in the
retail space and individuals in the
retail space who haven't really ever had
to deal with that kind of thinking about
the liquidity of the investments in
their portfolio. Um, tokenization is a
new platform, right? Tokenization is a
way of wrapping a fund, right, in a new
vehicle that makes it very transportable
um on these new blockchains that we're
seeing in the sandboxes of many
regulatory jurisdictions right now. And
more and more of the central security
depositories and more and more of the
exchanges are starting to offer
blockchainbased
trading. Um and on a blockchain you are
able to move an asset and move the
payment mechanism for that asset almost
simultaneously,
right? And that creates a very fluid
operational operating platform. Um, and
so this has been very tempting to try
and put some of these private fund
shares uh or exposures into these
tokenized rappers because it does create
that liquidity upon demand which is
really what many of the retail advisors
are looking for in the portfolio. Um and
there has been some launches um and
we've seen some exchanges emerge out um
in the Far East, more smaller exchanges,
more private exchanges in different
jurisdictions in the US and Europe where
people are looking to trade private fund
shares. Um and that could get very
interesting when they're in the
tokenized wrapper because they can also
get fractionalized down into very small
increments that would work well uh for
individual portfolios. Uh the question,
you know, that kind of sits out there
with all of this is can you put an
illquid exposure into a liquid rapper
and create a an access vehicle that
doesn't undermine the longer term value
proposition. I think most people at this
point have come to the conclusion that
you can't do that if you're going to
make it just a share class of an
existing fund because you don't want the
more liquid tokens starting to influence
the longer term valuation that does not
get marked to market as a token would
every day. Um but that perhaps it's a
better vehicle for new funds and new
investments that can be put into those
rappers that can be targeted much more
for a retail audience. So I think that
this is a very big area of opportunity
and and we're likely to see a lot of
experimentation in this space alone. Um
and because you're thinking about new
assets to put in new rappers, we may see
very different kinds of alternatives
being uh targeted for a more retail
audience, right? And a great example is
like fine art, right? you know, museum
quality art isn't something that most
individual investors can buy, but if you
can put that into a tokenized rapper and
put that out uh on a blockchain and
fractionalize it, you could really start
to open up those types of opportunities.
So it may not be the same private equity
and private debt that ends up being
successful in the tokenized rappers
because of the liquidity mismatches with
the underlying investments, but you
might start to see very new categories
and alternatives emerge.
>> That's really interesting. And and you
know, I think we've seen some attempts
of that. You know, artwork is kind of
the obvious, you know, one. And uh but
even other collectibles as well. I mean,
you can probably trade Pokemon cards on
a tokenized blockchain at at this point.
Um maybe going back to the the private
equity side, private credit side. So if
we're if we're taking this and putting a
wrapper around a fund, maybe an
oversimplification, but is this just a
more efficient uh LPled secondaries type
of market where instead of going, you
know, bilateral between two LPs, you've
got more of an exchange. Is that a good
way to think about it or is it slightly
different?
>> I think that's the hope, right? That's
the hope that we get to. Um, I don't
know if we're finding that much
liquidity to be able to really kind of
say we've hit that point yet. Uh, and I
think that, you know, we've also got to
be a little careful because, you know,
if this is an LP share and it's an LP
that's also held in a longerdated lockup
fund, you don't want the different
valuations of that same investment
coming back to haunt a manager, right?
So I I do think this is very much an
allocation exercise as much as it is a a
structuring and a wrapping exercise. Um
and I think they've got to balance all
three. What's the right asset to put in
it as an allocation? What's the right
structure that you can use to create an
adequate level of liquidity for a retail
audience? And then what's the right
venues to think about offering that
structure so that there will be
sufficient liquidity that you can really
use the new retail audience and and give
them those exit points that they need to
feel comfortable with these investments
in their portfolio.
Uh so maybe a final question for you uh
Sandy is kind of the business model of
uh particularly on the asset management
side of uh of the industry with this alt
uh title wave that seems to be coming uh
and continuing to come. So there's
there's a couple ways you can do this as
a as an asset manager or GP. You can buy
or build. Um and you know Franklin
Templeton has been uh a big buyer of
boutique managers. there's others that
are building out their uh their own
capabilities internally. Uh there's
probably some in between. So, you know,
maybe if if you want to talk about FT
and the way that you all have kind of
approached this, but also what have you
noticed in terms of uh the direction of
the wind in terms of buying versus uh
building?
>> Yeah. I mean, to build a more retail
focused segment of an alternative
practice, you need one of two things,
right? You either need a sufficiently
large platform where you can really
bring on and hire lots of additional
people to build out retail
relationships. Um to really start to
forge that strategic partnership with
the home office or with the lead partner
group in a network. uh and the
technology to really be able to connect
into these platforms because they're
very different in terms of how they
handle their public market exposure. So
there are a number of larger alternative
firms that do have the resources to be
able to do that and they have the
resources to really make this a
long-term part of their business growth.
And we've seen them really working in
that direction. And and this is where
you see the Black Stones and the Apollos
and the KKRS and the Hamilton Lanes and
the Carile groups. I mean, these these
firms have the platform to be able to do
this. And you're likely to see this from
others, right, that have large platforms
in the alternative space. On the flip
side, you need to be able to then if you
don't have that scale uh and that
ability to hire and build out those
networks, right? You can affiliate uh
and join a firm that has a large retail
or a large wealth focused business but
doesn't have alternatives. Uh and
Franklin Templeton is a 76 year old
brand. We've got 1.6 trillion in assets
under management. uh and the the team
really decided that you know this was a
great platform to be able to extend. We
have deep relationships with wealth
firms all over the world and advisor
networks and being able to use that
depth of of relationship to begin to
introduce these alternative products.
We're really coming from a position of
trust with the adviserss. We already
have an academy that we've been working
with adviserss for years on where we're
doing training for advisors. So adding
training around alternatives or training
around digital assets is a very natural
extension for us. So we're able to come
in and do that educational component. Um
and as a result what we've seen is we've
been able to attract some excellent
quality alternatives managers who want
to build out that retail access but
don't want to go out and start building
and hiring from their own firm's
perspective. They want to tap into our
existing network. So that's been a great
partnership. We've been very successful
in the retail funds that we've raised,
but we're also very careful. Uh, and
each time we raise one, we really do
start with a huge educational campaign.
We start with a large amount of of
really going through and helping the
operational teams at the different
networks, right? It's a very different
approach to sales than you would
normally see with a public market fund.
So, you have to kind of have the
commitment on both sides. the commitment
from the traditional platform that has
the wealth relationships and the
commitment from the alternative firms
who don't have those relationships but
have the subject matter expertise. Um,
and so you've seen both models. I think
both models can succeed. I I think it's
going to be the toughest is going to be
the smaller firms that have been very
successful in a high growth period that
aren't sure they really want to either
affiliate or sell themselves to a bigger
platform but don't really quite have the
scale or the resources to begin to grow.
They might get caught out a little bit
in the middle here and face some tougher
decisions if the capital raising
environment uh remains challenged right
with higher interest rates. We've
certainly seen that. So there's a big
strategic decision point coming from
many firms. I think that both options
are very viable. You just kind of figure
out your own kind of willingness to make
the investment or make the affiliation.
>> Great. Well, Sandy, thanks so much uh
for the for the discussion and for your
contributions to this paper. I think uh
you know people when they read this will
get a really good sense of where we've
been and then where we're going from
just even your piece and then you know
all the extension beyond that. So, uh,
really appreciate the time.
>> Well, excellent. Thank you. You guys do
great work. Love to be part of it.
[Music]
