[Music]
Hey everyone, uh Aaron Philbeck, uh
global head of content for Kai
Association. Uh we're going to have a
conversation today on geopolitics, which
is uh incredibly relevant given some of
the market backdrop that we've had over
the past uh couple of weeks. I am
pleased to be joined by Marco Papich
who's with BCA research and importantly
a co-host of Geopolitical Cousins which
is my new favorite podcast. So excited
to uh to have you on uh with this
conversation, Marco. Well, thank you so
much Aaron and thank you for the shout
out for the podcast. It's it's a
pleasure. It's you know I guess
everybody at some point in their life
has to start one. So there you go.
Absolutely. Marco, before we get into
questions, uh maybe just give a little
bit of your background and uh and your
history.
Sure. So, I started my career in
political risk consulting, sort of the
run-of-the-mill, you know, what's going
to happen and using scenario analysis.
And then I realized that I didn't really
much like that industry. Uh everybody
seemed to always be right all the time.
You know, uh my favorite example to go
with is uh somebody would forecast that
Turkey would experience volatility and
then everything from a coup d'etata to
like the deputy finance minister
resigning would be seen as a correct
forecast. So what I um really enjoy
about finance is that you know if you're
right, but you also know if you're
wrong. And I don't mind being wrong. I
just want to know which is it. And so I
crossed over it uh to finance on the
sell side worked at BC research and
developed a framework for investors to
incorporate politics in geopolitics
mostly in the public markets. spent five
years on the buy side mostly in alts
which is where the kayer relevance I
think comes in and then I realized you
know this framework is not just for
public markets and just for generating
alpha it's also useful for generating
longerterm forecasts and allowing
private market investors to avoid some
of the pitfalls especially given
illiquidity issues great yeah we'll
we'll definitely come back to uh the
Kaya involvement Marco was one of our uh
authors on our level two curriculum uh
talking about geopolitics from an
allocator's perspective. So, lots to
talk about uh from that perspective. But
uh Marco, why don't we start with the
just the the headline uh conversation,
then we'll get into some of the
frameworks which I think will be which
will be really relevant here. But uh
tariffs are are back on the table um uh
over the past couple of weeks. There's
been some escalation from a tariff
perspective. And when I was listening to
one of your conversations uh when you
were talking about tariffs on your
podcast uh you made the comment that
tariffs are actually uh can be a
positive thing. They can be a useful
tool uh from a uh geopolitical
perspective from a policy perspective uh
which I think for me challenged some of
my own thinking. Uh when I typically
hear the term tariff or someone
implementing tariff um my reaction is
usually negative. But I I'd love for you
to talk a little bit about how tariffs
can actually be used uh for different
purposes and whether or not we're seeing
uh tariffs today being used for positive
or for negative uh purposes.
Well, tariff like anything else is
really neutral. You know, it's just a
tool and of course as all tools it can
be used for good and for evil. And so uh
I think that um there are various
reasons why I think a country would
decide to implement tariffs. One is to
support a nent industry where uh one
doesn't even exist. You know take for
example Indonesia. Indonesia uh digs
nickel out of the ground and sends the
ore to China. And in order to develop
beyond its current level of economic
development, Indonesia decided to
implement tariffs, export tariff
actually, to raise prices of ore. Uh so
not an import tariff but an export
tariff. Uh so that China would have to
actually move some of its refining to
Indonesia. This is I think overall seen
as a you know generally speaking a
positive way to do economic development.
Ultimately, China didn't have a problem
in moving its refining infrastructure to
Indonesia because they don't really want
that kind of dirty polluting industry in
China. Anyways, uh similarly, a country,
an advanced economy may decide that
certain critical uh materials or goods
are important for national security. And
this is where, you know, for example,
steel tariffs are not necessarily, I
think, as negative as as many in the
media make them. I mean you you should
retain the capability the ability to
produce steel. Uh it's sort of a basic
uh basic uh reality in case of war
starts. Uh so that does to to an extent
make sense and then of course the
pandemic produced similar uh views of
pharmaceuticals and I think
semiconductors as well um from a
perspective that you know semiconductors
are so important for the modern economy.
So there are there are various
sectoral tariffs that the Trump
administration is implementing that
quite frankly the Biden administration
did as well. Um and I think that the
rest of the world would largely be okay
with the US implementing those uh just
as it is often um okay with the rest of
the world particularly developed markets
using tariffs to create new domestic
industries. The problem of course the
downside is that if you take this too
far, it leads to technological
impairment. Uh protecting domestic
industries leads to those industries
basically not being competitive. Uh and
then you essentially become addicted to
tariffs protecting those industries. Got
it. Got it. very helpful just just to
understand that you know framing this as
a neutral thing I I think is really
helpful because again when I hear those
those terms and I think when a lot of
investors hear those terms it's there's
a negativity associated with it so
thinking through that as a tool is is
definitely a better way to think about
it. Um, so now now that we've gotten the
headline uh conversation out of the way,
I I'd love to talk a little bit about
frameworks. And this is where uh some of
the stuff you've written in both your
book, but also in the Kaya curriculum um
I think really comes into play. And
there's a bit of timeliness to this, but
also just broad more broadly thinking
through um asset allocation and how do I
kind of put together a portfolio and an
environment that looks very different
today than maybe the past uh 40 years.
So I want to back up, talk about three
in particular, and I'd love for you to
spend a little bit of time defining a
few things and then maybe talking about
the application uh to today. So we'll
talk about macro. Um we'll talk about
geopolitical alpha and beta and then
this uh this concept that you've talked
about of possibility versus probability
which I think is uh is pretty unique. So
if we start with macro um you wrote
about this in the level two curriculum
this uh 3x3 matrix of uh the future
state of the world which will flash up
uh on the screen uh as I'm talking about
it but basically for for people who are
watching uh this covers the uh global
distribution of political power and the
the domestic political system and kind
of a matrix. Um, so my question for you,
Marco, is as you think about this matrix
of 3x3, where were we and and where do
you see us going um on that matrix uh
into the 2020s?
Well, I would argue that we were in
um the kind of a world that allowed
investors to completely ignore politics
and geopolitics. So on the domestic
political scene, we were in a world of
less affair capitalism. So this uh
really emerged in the 1980s uh the
Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan
revolutions which were revolts. They
were they were true revolutions against
the status quo which in the 1970s of
course produced quite suboptimal
macroeconomic outcomes if I were to use
sort of a a very learned academic uh
phrases. What I really mean is that it
produced a highly inflationary
stagflationary environment of the 1970s.
And so one of the revolutionary sort of
moves was to get the government out of
capitalism, out of the economy, minimize
its role. That's where less affair comes
from. It's this concept of let it be.
Let the free markets just unleash
themselves. And of course that allowed
investors to generally ignore, you know,
fiscal policy. Um we became sort of like
a crab with like a giant claw, you know,
when it came to monetary policy, but
fiscal policy was a tiny little claw. um
because we didn't need to really think
about it. Uh everything came down to the
Fed. Um you suddenly had this explosion
of the population of Fed watchers
because that became the only way to add
some sort of um you know knowledge to
the policy realm and fiscal policy
effectively became counteryclical. It
was never used in procyclical way. So
that's very very I don't want to say
positive for investors although there
are certain positive aspects to it. For
example, inflation becomes moderated. Um
it does not become uh very volatile and
growth also moderates as well. Um
because the government does not choose
winners and losers willy-nilly. The
second one of course in the geopolitical
in the broader uh sort of sphere is very
similar again we were very lucky as
investors if you will uh in that uh it
was a uniolar world. The distribution of
power clearly favored the United States.
Now I don't think that happened as early
as less affair um liberalism impacting
domestic politics. It took a little bit
of a while probably 85 86 87 was really
the end of the cold war and then of
course Soviet Union collapses and then
from 1990 until sometimes in the 2010s
the US was clearly the hedgeimon and
clearly uh you did not have to really
care about you know things like what
Russia or China are going to do here
there or anywhere. So we were there for
about 40 years and it created an
epistemic shock to our community. It
allowed us to overprofessionalize you
know so instead of having a very
holistic um broad education as investors
have had in the past there were folks
who knew history or who knew geopolitics
or knew international relations um or
hell even like art history you know
things like that. um that became less
relevant and what we did is we
overstaffed our I think epistemic
community with quants and MBAs. Uh and I
think that we are um woefully
underprepared right now in terms of at
least uh the intellectual capital that
we have to deal with this new world.
Where is this new world headed? Well, I
think you can obviously guess away from
these two uh ideal macro contexts. I
think that we're going to see more and
more of the resist capitalism where the
government is involved perhaps even
populist where it's overwhelmingly
involved and then of course on the other
side um we are in a multipolar world
today high conviction view from my end
but it could actually become quite
pernicious where it becomes bipolar
where the world is bifurcated between
two uh waring you know camps if you
will. I don't think we're going to go
there, but um you know, the best we can
hope for, I think, at this point is
moving towards durism and multiparity.
So, I want to pick up on something you
just mentioned because I I I think
that's really interesting, the uh overp
profofessionalizing um and if I'm
sitting in an investment professional
seat
today, obviously there there's maybe the
gut reaction is like, well, oh my gosh,
I've got to prepare myself. Um how do I
prepare myself? How do I kind of think
differently um when I'm I'm looking
forward and um I guess you know maybe I
can't go back and get a art dis degree
or I can't go back and uh you know learn
history uh in in undergrad all over
again. But are there things that I can
do to challenge my thinking um approach
this world a little bit differently just
given the radical shift that we've had
over the past couple of years? You know,
Erin, one thing that I have a high
conviction view on is you can't use AI
to tool up. Let me let me put that very
clearly right now. That's not going to
help us uh with this particular issue.
It might help with other issues. In
fact, AI may very well allow you to have
more time to spend on qualitative issues
because your quantitative uh time spent
on quantitative matters may decline. Um
so that's that's helpful. But from uh
how do you tool up? I think you need a
framework, you know. So no, you
shouldn't just read history uh books
about World War II or the 19th century.
Uh but I think understanding that uh
ultimately policy makers are bound by
material constraints and therefore
understanding those constraints is a
shortcut to thinking about scenario
analysis. I think that that's good
enough. And the good news about our
human capital in our community, in our
epistemic community, the good news is
that that we're very objective, data
driven, empirical, and so we're actually
terrible at figuring out what the
preferences of politicians are. We're
terrible at it. Uh we're terrible
putting into historical context as an
intellectual community. We just don't
have any of that. Uh we have no idea
what, you know, Trump or Putin want or
don't want or why or whatever. And
that's fine. My my message to investors
is don't worry about it. Don't read
history books. Actually, what you should
do is you should overindex on the real
world that bounds politicians and policy
makers in terms of what they can and
cannot do. So whether it's the bond
yields in terms of fiscal policy,
whether that is military capability in
terms of offensive uh operations,
whether that is the political context,
voters, what do they want, what do they
not want, polls, we can actually use
data, hard data to create a relief, a
view of where the world is going without
trying to become suddenly these
qualitative, you know, art historians.
and and maybe a question related to
that. So, uh and and you've written
about this as well of you know there
there's the financial metrics that are
out there. So, you mentioned bond
yields, inflation, GDP growth, then
there's all this other noninance stuff
that that factors in. So, how do I think
about this um today? Whereas I think
maybe to try to bring back what you said
before where geopolitics didn't really
matter over the past 40 years, we were
much more focused on maybe the financial
uh side of things relative to some of
the other things. What are some of those
other things that I should focus on? Uh
and perhaps to use your word overindex
uh when I'm making decisions. Well, I
think that first of all identifying the
issues that matter to the median voter
is the best thing that investors can do.
Now median voter theory is sort of
discredited in political science
academic community. Uh it's not seen as
necessarily helpful in forecasting where
the world is going. Uh I disagree. I
think politicians are quite attuned to
what the median voter wants. And by the
way, median voters of course is a
theoretical concept. Uh but it's an
important one to to glean. And there's
really two things that every politician
has to do in order to get reelected or
in a case of an authoritarian regime to
stay in power. They have to both
identify which issues are the most
important issues of the day and where is
the median voter which means where is
the largest group of voters under the
curve on that issue. So take for example
the 2024 election. in the 20 24 election
I think it's pretty clear everybody
agrees and I have wealth of empirical
data to prove it that clearly inflation
was the most important issue dujour and
that the medium voter clearly had a
quite I would say centerright almost
conservative view on that inflation in
other words we need to kind of rein this
in no more you know uh no more want
fiscal spending and this is important
because it tells me also where over the
next 12 months policy is going to have
to go. President Trump in 2024 2025
cannot do what President Trump in 201617
did. You know in 2017 we had this very
freewheeling
unfunded
pro-yclical fiscal stimulus in the form
of 2017 tax cuts. This time around is
going to have to be bound. It's going to
have to have some spending cuts to pay
for it. And it's going to be very
difficult to spend as much as both the
Biden and the Trump 1.0. 0
administrations did. Why? Again, because
voters don't really want it. Similarly,
tariffs, the the policy that everybody
wants us to talk about. Of course, Eron,
I you were very generous at the
beginning. You said we handled it. Oh
boy, did we not handle it. There going
to be so many questions. But one of the
things is in 2024 with the median voter
being as focused on the issue of
inflation, I think it's going to be very
difficult for President Trump to justify
a calamitous recession and potentially
even stagflationary outcome
because I can tell you nobody really
wants a trade war. I know it sounds
hyperbolic. I know a lot of your viewers
are going to shake their fists at me,
but the polls are clear. The number one
issue in America is inflation. The last
issue in every single poll is trade
tariffs and global uh in globalization.
It's just not as much of a winning
political issue as it was in 2016. And
so yes, this framework would tell me
that where the policies are going to
head over the next 12 months, a
retrenchment on the most uh you know
sort of aggressive tariff uh policies. I
think there's going to have to be
retrenchment. In other words, I think
Trump will favor deals and negotiations
over uh a permanent higher price regime.
And then on fiscal policy, I think that
investors should not hope for um the
fiscal engine of the US to continue to
power the economy. I want to come back
to fiscal because I I think that's a
that's another interesting topic that
that we should cover. But I think a lot
of what you're you're talking about
leads into this uh probability versus
possibility and you've written about
this and spoken about this. What does
that mean? Um and and and how do I think
about uh how do I think in probabilities
instead of possibilities especially when
things are chaotic? Well, I think this
is the most important thing. When things
are chaotic, the realm of the possible
expands. You know, it is possible that
President Putin will use tactical
nuclear weapons to conquer parts of
Ukraine that he has massively failed to
conquer. You know, that was literally
something that very serious people were
discussing and writing opeds about in
serious publications in March, April,
and May of 2022. This was the issue of
the moment. Uh, so the realm of the
possible expands massively, but the
realm of the possible is not bound by
constraints. So, I'm
6'1 between 195 and 210 pounds depending
on, you know, travel and, you know,
where I'm traveling, what the tariff
levels are. The tariff levels, yes. uh
if I can get my Icelandic high protein
quantity uh yogurt or not. Uh so uh
which soon I won't be able to get I
suppose. Um but the point is uh I'm 6'1
about 195 200 uh 43 years old with three
kids. Um could I dunk? Is it possible
that I get back to the fitness level of
a 23 year old and uh dunk the
basketball? Uh the answer is yes. It is
in the realm of the possible. But if you
knew the constraints that I face, you
would be able to assign scenarios and
probabilities to different outcomes.
One, Marco can dunk with two hands off
of two legs off of a standing position.
Probability
0.1%. Uh Marco can dunk while running
with one hand barely, probability 0.2%.
And then final scenario, Marco will
never ever be able to dunk because it's
too late for him.
99.7%. That is the difference between
the possible and the probable. And the
problem is that most of the time
investors assign in the especially as
you said in the moment of sort of panic
the the realm of the possible expanses
in part because the media and
journalists and God bless them nothing
against them but they do kind of make
money off of your clicks and so they
have to convince you that yes the realm
of the possible expands. In fact, they
will favor interviews and they will
reach out to experts who actually
discuss these quite unlikely outcomes
because that is where you will
absolutely click. You're not going to
click on a headline that says President
Putin bound my material constraints
likely to end up in a bogged down war in
Donetsk. You will click on tactical
nuclear weapons are likely to be used in
Ukraine. And that's where I think that a
constraint-based framework and focusing
on what is probable, not possible, is
really important for investors,
particularly those in the public
markets, I would say, who are trying to
generate alpha off of the bidding up of
risks and panic and so on. Well, I
didn't realize we were going to get into
your your fitness regimen, uh, or your
ability to dunk a basketball. That's
great. Lack of Yeah. No, that's that's
that's great. On that on that theme
though, uh if you could point to like
one or two things that are the most out
of whack, the biggest delta of of the uh
the material world versus kind of the
hypo uh you know hyperbolic nature of
what's going on in markets where is that
biggest delta um today? Well, I would
say that um it's not really about my
view of probabilities. It's
probabilities combined with valuations.
So that is a really important way for
investors to think about it. Uh you know
we can sit here and say that uh you know
Canada is not going to become the 51st
state of United States of America.
That's true but there's nothing that's
been priced in the markets uh to justify
us really even talking about that. So
the two things I would bring up that I
think are interesting. First and
foremost uh this notion that Europe will
be a museum that it will
de-industrialize because of high energy
costs. I think that um that is driven
mostly by the media. Uh some
sophisticated media behind is behind
that narrative and that narrative is
just wrong. It's perhaps in the realm of
the possible but not the probable. Uh
first of all, a cure for high energy
prices are high energy prices. This has
always been the case. And so um that's
the first issue. Europe is about to be
drowned in a tsunami wave of LG in part
because prices went up. Uh so supply is
coming online very very fast before
demand can catch up. The second issue is
that Europe never benefited from cheap
natural gas from Russia. Anyways, this
is one of the most l ludicrous notions
I've heard over my career and creates
incredible long-term investment
opportunities for investors. Um the
notion that Russia somehow supplied
Europe with cheap gas uh suggests that
Russians are nice when it comes to
negotiating. And by the way, I don't
mean this negatively. God bless them.
they were trying to get the highest
price they can. Anyone who even has a
modicum of understanding of uh gasprom
commission negotiations knows that
gasprom kept those natural gas prices
linked to oil prices for a very long
time. So that's that's one example of
this. The second one would I think be
President Trump's tariff policies. Is it
possible that President Trump wants us
to go back to 1901, the glory years of
President McKinley when we finance the
entire government with tariffs? And uh
yeah, sure it's possible just like you
know I may yank it down uh from standing
position with two hands. Um it is
possible but it is improbable. First of
all, US government as percent of GDP was
2% in uh 1901. it is now 30%. In other
words, you and I, Erin, could have
financed the US government with a bake
sale in 1901. And so, yes, you you know,
tariffs were a tool of raising revenue.
Now, I don't mean that President Trump
doesn't mean to raise any revenue from
tariffs. Certainly some uh but neo
McKinleyism is unlikely the trajectory
of where we're headed because of a slew
of constraints that create alternative
probabilities. And that's where I would
sort of temper some of the most bearish
views of the tariff war and um and
declobalization narrative. I think
there's going to be some of it. Uh but I
think uh it has to be scenario game
planned and we come to a different
outcome when we do that. You're you're
gearing me up for my fiscal question.
But uh before we get to that uh third
category is this this geopolitical alpha
versus beta. just I I think if you could
explain the difference between the two
and in particular given our audience is
much more focused on private markets
where where does private markets play in
that trade-off between alpha and beta?
Yeah, so you know I wrote a book titled
geopolitical alpha and it was sort of a
bookend to my experience of being on the
sell side mainly working with public
market uh investors. Um, and so I was
hyperfocused on how to generate alpha.
And the way to do that in my view is to
basically not try to predict events from
happening, but rather to fade them once
they do because uh there's a dislocation
in the markets. I think because of a
particular moment in history that we
exist in where our epistemic community
is overp profofessionalized on the
quantitative and macroeconomic side, we
tend to overreact to events and start
pricing in the possible, not the
probable. And so what I like to do is
generate alpha by fading geopolitics.
And most of my clients, you know, it
takes them time to get used to this
because I'm like the geopolitics guy in
the markets. And so they they will wheel
me out in the office and they expect me
to say buy gold and guns and ammo and
maybe sardines and so on and and I'm
quite often very bullish because the
event has already
occurred and once the event occurs the
market starts to price in way too much
risk and so the way I mean nine out of
10en times the way to generate that
alpha is to fade this. Um that said for
private market investors there is no
such luxury because of course there's an
ill
liquidity concern and so for private
market investors it's really about
thinking about the long term and in the
long term well first of all before we go
to how to do that I think what's
interesting Erin is how
um you would have thought that given the
posity of imp implications for the
markets from geopolitics ics in the
short term that public market investors
would be less concerned about it and
that the private market investors would
be far more concerned about it because
of the illquidity premium. But it's
actually the opposite. It's the shorter
term investors, macro hedge funds as an
example, event- driven hedge funds, um
allocators who actually care about
politics and geopolitics to an extent I
would argue too much.
And what I've noticed in my career at
least is that the private market
investors are almost completely uh aloof
of politics and geopolitics. Even though
it's politics and geopolitics that
creates the long-term conditions for
technological innovation, for growth,
and for I think long-term locked up
opportunities. Um and so that's what we
call geopolitical beta. It's this idea
that you want to be in you want to
invest in those technologies, companies,
geographies, countries and sectors where
the second derivative or the second
order effects are going to be positive,
not those where the first order effects
are positive. That's already in the
price and you're probably the last
dollar in that. So, so here's the fiscal
question that we've been gearing up for
for the past uh you know, five five
minutes or so. But it, you know, fiscal
stimulus, fiscal policy, um, at least
the way that I understand it, and you
can correct me if I'm wrong, but,
uh, there is there's a bit of a short-
termism, uh, to some of these policies
with potential bump uh, that comes and
growth, potentially inflation depending
on what what type of uh, fiscal policy
takes place, and then it corrects later
on. So, if I'm a long-term investor that
is in the private markets, I'm locking
up my capital, how do I how do I even
factor in something like fiscal policy
um into a a portfolio decision? How do I
play offense? How do I play defense? Or
does it not really matter over a longer
term period? No, I I do think it
matters. And it matters because fiscal
policy can often mask um can often hide
actual you know problems and warts. And
so uh I would argue that many investors
have become extremely enamored with the
argument that US is
exceptional. And there are things that
make us truly exceptional. Uh
particularly the venture for example
ecosystem.
um in many ways exactly the kind of
things that fall in private markets is
exceptional about the US. But I would
argue that since 2020, US growth in
particular has been fueled by fiscal
policy. And I would be quite hyperbolic
about that. You know, uh the US spent
four times more than Europe since 2020
in terms of fiscal outlays. That is an
extraordinarily large amount for two
economies that are roughly the same
size. I mean, obviously the EU versus
the US. So you know 4x more fiscal
outlays in the US and these have
obviously
produced impacts on earnings on revenues
on multiples of public markets but also
on capital flowing to the US for various
private uh endeavors as well as well
whether it's venture ecosystem or
whether it's I don't know like private
credit which is almost exclusively an
American story today and so I think that
um if you are managing private assets or
you're an allocator deciding where those
alternative investments go
geographically. I think you have to be
aware of where fiscal policy is probably
coming to an end due to the bond market
reaction and where it's not coming to an
end where it's perhaps at the beginning.
You want to know where your dollar goes
and gets locked up at what valuation. Uh
and that's where I would say fiscal
policy really matters. Those decisions
have to be made. And so if you're
looking at US versus Europe, I think
almost in any alternative investment uh
class, I would favor Europe over US. Not
all, but I think almost any I would
favor Europe just because there's just
been less private market dollars that
have gone there or euros. And Europe is
at the beginning of its upswing in
fiscal policy and the US is at the
beginning of its downswing. Do you think
that there is still room to run in the
US in terms of fiscal stimulus? I mean,
four times as much as as Europe. And I
know we're not talking about other parts
of the world, but uh I guess maybe
that's one question. But two, the second
part of that question is where is I
guess where in the world has the biggest
kind of fiscal stimulus opportunity um
moving forward? Well, I would be
careful, you know, uh not to over uh
stress this, Aaron, because I don't want
to I don't want our viewers to think
that you want to only invest based on
fiscal policy. For sure. Uh that would
be a wrong lesson. But uh to answer your
question just very very bluntly, no.
Like heck no. And I know this is a
family-friendly show, so I'm trying to
not use any stronger language here. Um
but no, the US US has no more room uh
for fiscal policy. I I do think it
Congress will obviously pass uh the
extension of the 2017 tax cut. That
alone will cost 4.7 trillion over the
next 10 years and will add absolutely no
growth to the United States of America.
Remember, extending the 2017 tax cuts
means that your taxes remain the same.
There's no impact. It costs $5 trillion,
but it has no impact on actual humans
and corporates in America doing human
and corporate things. Zero impact. It's
it's as secretary of treasury Scott
Besson said it's a mustd do otherwise we
will have obviously the largest tax
increase in US history. It cost $5
trillion to do but it will not have any
impact on actual investors. Whereas if
you look at China's long-term uh bond
yields are below 2%. I mean for good
reason. They're mured in a secular
stagnation and a postreal estate crisis
obviously. So that's why their bond
yields are low. But at the same time
that suggests that they can spend more
money domestically and then the EU
aggregate bond yield is closer to
Germany's rate not that of Italy or
France. So you're looking at somewhere
around 3%. EU is likely going to be
pushed to issue joint issuance. Why?
Because obviously trade war is seen as
exogenous risk as a pandemic as an alien
invasion. So they have an excuse to do
more of this. So I would say that um
those two um those two economies are
going to seem more fiscal. Now again
caveat very important fiscal policy
without structural reforms does not
create interesting entry points for
long-term locked up illquid investments.
So am I going to invest in China or
Europe just based on this? No. What I
want to see is actual structural
reforms. In China's case, it means more
pro business uh less, you know,
completely uh sort of um arbitrary
sectoral um regulatory actions. And in
Europe, it means more integration. The
single market is a single market in
Europe only for goods. It's not really
for services. And I think that over the
next five years, investors are going to
have an incredible opportunity in
rollups and buyouts in Europe,
particularly as some of these barriers
to trade internal internally in services
start to be broken down and I'm very
excited about that u move in Europe.
Yeah. And I think that whole point on
you know it's a musto uh because it's a
it's a a tax raise uh here in the
states. I mean that whole, you know,
markets don't react to the level. It's
more about the change and then there's
no there's no real change uh from from
that perspective. It's more of a
continuation of what already exists. Um
so Marco, maybe final question for you
and I know it's it's always dangerous to
extrapolate the past into the future,
but is there any historical context or
analoges that we can pull from to help
us think about uh looking forward or
not? Yeah. So I think you know going
back to the 3x3 that you flashed earlier
I think that that was very nice uh and
and you know I think that's a really
interesting way to think about the
world. Now most of us for the most for
the most part we have modern analoges to
less affair capitalism to derist
capitalism to populism we can point to
countries in the world that have tried
out all three. We know what the
implications are more or less for growth
inflation innovation you know ease of
doing business and so on. On the
geopolitical side, all of us have
experienced the cold war. Maybe only the
youngest of millennials have not, but
for the most part, every generation
that's currently investing has
experienced the bifurcated world. And
we've also experienced um sort of
unipolar world under US age. I think the
most difficult analog, Erin, uh to
really wrap our mind around is a
multipolar geopolitical environment. And
I think a lot of investors fear it. um
greatly. First of all, there's home
bias. You know, if the US is no longer
the hedgeimon, I think a lot of um
investors who watch this who are based
in the US or Americans themselves may
say, well, that's not a great world. But
what I would actually say is that if you
read the history of the concert of
Europe, the long piece from 1812 to
1914, there was a lot of conflict, a lot
of military armed confrontations really
all over the place. But there was no
world war for for many reasons. that we
don't have to get into but it's
important until 1914. And the second
issue is that there's an incredible
amount of
innovation. I mean literally everything
we have invented that matters to us as
humans was actually invented in that
kind of like 1830 to 1914 period of time
other than obviously electronics,
computers and all that stuff. That's
awesome and obviously we wouldn't be
able to do this otherwise. But if you
think about healthcare, transportation,
industry, materials, um there was just
an incredible amount of technological
innovation in part because countries
were competitive against one another in
part because the government did get
involved in some of that, you know,
industrial pro protection, but also
innovation and financing, R&D. And so I
would say that if you're a private
investor right now, particularly in
venture and technology, um I do think
that you should be a little bit more
optimistic. I know that obviously the
venture community has has been in a lot
of pain since 2021. And I would also say
that the venture community probably is
not adept at investing in this world
because I think vast majority of them
are focused on SAS as a business model
and software. But I do think that when
you start thinking about technological
innovation, the next 20 years are pro
are probably going to be very good.
They're just going to be more in hard
tech and the things that kind of matter
beyond software. And I'm very excited
about that. And I think that
opportunities there are going to be very
interesting. Probably led by, you know,
negative factors such as military
competition and competition between
states. But nonetheless, the outcome,
the byproduct could be actually pretty
beneficial for humanity despite the
origin of the innovation.
Well, Marco, we'll have to leave it
there. I really appreciate your time and
answering some uh some of my questions.
I learned a lot in a very short uh
period of time. Uh for members who are
watching this, we're the uh geopolitics
readings from Marco in level two are
available to you. Uh we'll make that
available to uh to all the listeners as
well. But, uh, Marco, keep up the good
work and appreciate your, uh,
partnership with Ka. Oh, it's it's a
real pleasure and it's my favorite
partnership. Thank you so much, Aaron.
[Music]
