[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high- netw worth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com. In this episode, Bill sits
down with George Alferris, founder of
Arama, host of the Investologology
Podcast, and a fellow Kaya member to
explore the evolving dynamics of private
markets, democratized investing, and the
importance of long-term thinking. George
shares his unconventional path from
financial markets to filming Michelin
star chefs, and back into fintech
content creation. Together they probe
the marketing practices in alternative
investing, the pitfalls of liquidity and
rappers, and the critical role of
education and governance in a more
accessible financial landscape. The
episode also features reflections on
Swenson style investing, the challenges
of retail access to alts, and whether
fractional ownership of wine or art is
more hobby than portfolio play.
[Music]
George Aliver, welcome to Educational
Alpha. I'm thrilled to be here, Bill. I
have been a big fan of the show. I think
you provide a lot of alpha in the sea of
podcast where there's a lot of betas.
I'm in the podcasting world myself. So
delighted to be here. Excellent. Well,
hopefully you're trading on that alpha
in the long term, not day trading from
your couch. But knowing you, George, I'm
sure that's the case. And I think you're
one of the few guests I've had across
approaching 100 episodes where I have a
podcaster on the other side of the
microphone. And I think I've done it
once or maybe twice before. So, my
antenna is always up. I know you're
sitting there judging me even though you
may not say it because you've got your
ways of doing things. And I've been, as
I said, a guest on yours, too. And I
really like the discovery. And I think
we're loosely planning that maybe I'll
join yours again after this and maybe
have a dual release. And if yours is
going to follow mine, we may leave some
things unfinished, unquestioned today.
Hopefully, not unquestioned, but we can
continue that on your platform as well.
So I do look forward to that. But before
we get started and there's a lot I want
to discuss in the capital markets and
you're very much a student of that and I
should point out both of us are card
carrying Kaya members and this platform
while it's on the Kaya platform I try to
take all comers but I always enjoy
having a fellow member on there. So
George thanks for that membership but
maybe in addition to that being the
highlight of your CV maybe you can give
us a little bit more background on who
George is. If you look at my career
which started in finance but has not
been a straight line for sure. Well, it
started pretty straightforward way. I
liked maths where I was a kid but not
enough to fully dedicate myself to that.
So I studied business in finance in
Paris at HC. After that I worked in
financial markets in Paris, Singapore,
London and in various roles and always
commercial roles across sales
structuring, marketing. I thoroughly
enjoyed it. I thoroughly enjoyed the
diversity of it. Many different
institutions from many different
countries and sophistication of the
products. I was dealing with structured
products, derivatives, alternative
strategies.
It was great until at some point maybe I
thought that this innovation was mainly
financial engineering and you know a
couple of crisis in 2012 while I was
covering Greek net crisis also helped to
to shape my view on that but yes
financial innovation meant financial
engineering not necessarily something
that I thought was always meaningful.
There was also a realization that I
would advise my friends and family if
they ask me to probably not get involved
in all those products, not all of them.
There was a bit of dissonance here and I
thought that was a key factor in making
me leave the industry about a decade ago
and thought, "Oh, I'm going to turn my
back to it and never return." and I
launched a very different business
creative industry Oram orama and we were
dealing mainly with let's say lifestyle
industry and my claim to fame from that
period is that we were filming chefs
Michelin star chefs around the world
fascinating people but eventually this
financial market bug I wasn't completely
cured and I was always interested in
having to invest my own money and I
realized as well that if I had been you
know at the forefront of innovation
financial markets doesn't mean that I
knew how to invest in the plain and
simple terms that I needed. I also
realized that across me this is
something very important investment.
It's not something that you can just
skip because you're responsible now for
your own future. Also discovered that
things were changing and as a way to get
back into it. So that was COVID times. I
launched a YouTube channel where I was
taking clips from series like Billions
or movies like Wolf for Wall Street and
analyzing them trying to bring in my
financial expertise. I was kind of
starting to get back into it and then I
rediscovered this word of fintech and I
realized okay it's also another way of
claiming finance or the good society to
get inspired from Robert Schiller in a
more determined way and I also launched
a podcast on fintech and that's how we
had a conversation and also the YouTube
channel grew to 20,000 subscribers so
then I was kind of back into it and
anyway many pivots and various little
turns later now My company is mainly
creating podcast mainly for the
financial industry and fintech and I
keep learning about it, exploring it
through my own conversation in the
investologology podcast which is about
rethinking investment management. Sorry,
I forgot the last bit but that's the
important bit to deliver better outcome
for investors. And that might be a
sentence that you're familiar with. I
might even have borrowed it, but I hope
there's no trademark there. That's where
I'm at currently. So, it's been a roller
coaster, but still very much interested
in this wonderful world of financial
markets. I didn't trademark it. Maybe I
did say it, but the only caveat I would
put on better outcomes over the long
term. And we're going to discuss what I
think is one of the biggest problems in
our industry is the failure to grasp a
long-term investment plan. But we'll
come to that in a moment. But it's
always interesting, George, when I have
guests on and I ask them to give the
background, it it gives me a nuanced way
of thinking about things. And when you
talk about this magnetic pull from the
Michelin star restaurant back into this
industry, it's an industry that has
served me very well for over four
decades. I just love it. And what I love
about it most is I learn something new
almost every single day. Very little is
static. And if you think about it, and
just listening to you say it, even the
Michelin star chef and the person
washing the dishes in that restaurant,
they're managing a financial empire.
They've got a P&L. They've got a balance
sheet. They got a statement of cash
flow. They have inventory of stuff
they've accumulated over life. They have
longevity risk. They have dependents who
are maybe their employees. And how are
they going to provide for them well into
the future? So for any one of us and
this goes for all the listeners for us
to think well financial services that's
somebody else's responsibility you can
outsource it but when you turn 75 and
there's no money left in the retirement
plan there's nobody to go see about that
so you do have to have at least a bit of
an active interest and understand you
can outsource some of the services but
the ultimate responsibility resides with
you so I thought I would just emphasize
that point It's interesting as you
talked about this latest iteration and I
can relate to this George being in the
seat of a podcaster. You do learn
something new from all your guests. each
one of them posits an idea and I think
it's formative in terms of somebody's
views and maybe I'll start with some of
your views that you're sitting there
with today particularly as it relates to
the private markets as we're in full
windup mode and maybe a few pitches have
clearly been thrown to use a baseball
analogy in this democratization move and
I think there's good points and bad
points there but start with your overall
state of the union of the private
markets from your vantage point I can
talk as well a bit about my own journey
because I was looking into this think
about my asset allocation. I was very
excited about the new opportunities art
wine things that are sometimes called
als and also somehow I've been
approached by some of them through my
YouTube channel to sponsor it and what I
quickly realized there is that they all
look like they're outperforming
tremendously. The first layer of
thinking is oh I should absolutely jump
on this. It's opening now. But when you
look at it carefully, where I see the
big challenge or the big issue with this
democratization of alternatives that I
think the marketing is a bit unfair
because all those demonstrate show you a
chart that really outperforms the S&P
500 because I guess if you wouldn't then
you're out of business. But when you
look at it a bit closer, let's talk
about wine or art. They managed to
produce a chart when there's no in the
S&P 500. can buy at pretty much any
point in the chart and sell at the other
point. When you compare with something
that is a reconstructed chart based on
their own index etc. The first thing is
it looks great but if you look at it
with a kaya hat you look that definitely
there's some issues. It's not what it
seems. the performance is very much
constructed and so on so forth and we
have been used to think in terms of
public markets but really you need a
different approach and I think that's
where when you look at the private
democratization that's where there's
really a big gap in education in terms
of how we see performance which is kind
of the foundation of accessing or not
the asset class so I don't know if
that's the state of union you ask for
but that has been my entry point and
I've gone from oh this is an amazing
opportunity to to being overall very
skeptic. Some of my guests have also
hinted as if it's open now is it because
it's the end of the cycle you could also
have a grow market analogy which is I
don't want to be part of a club that
would invite people like me. You need to
be trading carefully before going there.
Absolutely. Well, this brings a few
openings in play and I want to come back
to the comment you made later on on
financial engineering, but this is the
opening for long-termism or lack
thereof. And it's not a complicated
story, but maybe a little bit on the
longer side. So, bear with me for a
moment. And this came out of a
conversation I did on a Spanish-speaking
program just last week. And I speak no
Spanish. I think there's an algorithm
that translates my staccato New
York-based English. So hopefully they
got it all right. But I put a couple of
things together that I thought were very
interesting. I'm writing a blog post on
this as well. So, every year I believe
Morning Star comes out with a piece
called Mind the Gap, which happens to be
the name of a PR program that Kaya put
together in the London tube about 10
years ago where we took down the big
billboard in the Bank Street stop on the
Central Line and put mine the gap up
there. And the gap was meant to be you
have traditional on one side of the
chasm and alts on the other. And how do
you get to the other side? It's not all
that simple. And education is critically
critically important. But before you
even think about crossing the chasm,
what is in the garden that you're
standing in today? It's the public
markets. And this Morning Star report
that they put out called Mind the Gap.
They do this every year. And on a
rolling 10-year period, they look back
and say, how did the average shareholder
do versus what the fund itself did? and
they break it down across maybe six or
seven categories including a proxy for
long short equities. So there's an
alternative sort of mutual fund proxy in
there. Long-term equities, long-term
bonds, there might be a commodity one in
there as well. And they add this up and
it's invariably pretty much the same. On
a rolling 10-year basis, the average
investor leaves 110 basis points on the
table every single year because they're
trading in and out. Somebody says
something, they don't like tariff wars,
they don't like Trump, they don't like
this, they sell out and they come back
in at the most inopportune times and
they trade their way back to leaving 110
basis points, but let's call it 100
basis points because it makes the math
so easy. So those are facts and you can
go and read Morning Star's assumptions,
but it's not like they're trying to
reconstruct an IR proxy to time weighted
return. It's a pretty straightforward
exercise and simple arithmetic. So now
if we go to that same investor and said
come into the deep end of the pool come
invest like David Swenson come and buy
private equity and let's stick with
private equity I know private capital
there many more sleeves there but with
private equity and most proxies if you
look at Kaya Cambridge Associates
they'll say adjusted for this that and
the other thing private equity delivers
a 500 basis point premium over the
public market. So, we can dispute the
assumptions there, but just take that as
a fact for a moment. In order for that
client to get the same 100 basis points
they're leaving on the table in the
public markets, they need to put 20%
into private equity. 20% of 500 basis
points outperformance for that sleeve in
your asset allocation is the same 100
basis points. So, I'm sitting back and
saying, okay, I'm not at this point
diminishing the power and the purpose of
the private markets. And there's reasons
why we should pay attention to it, which
we'll cover too. But if I'm giving up
100 basis points in the public markets
because I don't understand long-termism
and I'm going from zero to 20% which is
a tremendous commitment to the private
markets and going to get when all this
dust settles 100 basis points perom
there's a lot of assumptions going in
there and I'm saying why not grab the
lowhanging fruit first under the morning
star scenario. figure out long- termism
first and then let's go to the private
markets. And to finish this narrative,
I'll get your comments. If you look at
the Swenson endowment model way of
investing, their holding period is
forever. They don't want leaky valves.
They don't want interval funds. They
don't want any co-investor that's taking
money out when they're not ready to take
money out. It's a draw down fund and you
invest my money, it's held for five to
seven years, and you return it and
hopefully I've got a good return. So to
think that the institutional proxy is
500 basis points over the public market
when you stick those same holdings into
interval funds or day traded ETFs. I
don't know. I don't think you're going
to get the 500 basis points. So as I
said, George, it was a long but not very
complicated storyline, but maybe get
some of your reactions to all of that.
There's a few things there. First of
all, this staying the course is another
way of thinking the long term. It's
something that Bogle has been saying for
a very long time. I mean, I can see
that. I can also see how we cannot just
interpret investment from a simple
return basis. I think there's a lot more
layers to it. I know that I should stay
for the long term, but I often trade
because I can help myself. It's fun. I
think I pitch my brain against the brain
of the rest of the market. It can be,
you know, a conversation starters. It
can be something that you might be
feeling good about because it's green or
whatever. There's all that and maybe
that's comes in the way. The other thing
is long term. I think yeah, it's also
asset liability management. One of the
challenges as investors is to think of
your liabilities because that's the only
way to to invest properly. But it's hard
to think and also to put into
consideration. So that's a couple of
things about that. And the other thing
about the Swenson example, it's often
quoted and the returns have been stellar
etc. But I think it's also one of the
most perhaps misunderstood aspect of
broad diversification through
alternatives is that he also said that
it required a huge amount of skills and
effort and like you said commitment
requirements things that people are just
not able to do and therefore it's often
used as oh you can do like Swenson you
can copy this very sophisticated
portfolio but no you can't because
you're not Swenson just like I'm not
Warren Buffett and so on you have
understand your skills. This has really
been taken into the mythmaking of
private markets but it's been removed
from its original sense which is it's
very very complicated and yes some
people manage but not everyone will and
definitely not the private investor in
such a complicated asset class as
private equity. I've had several guests
and I've written about this too, George,
that when you have a lot of uncertainty
and inefficiencies in the market, that's
where you find alpha. And when you have
very few GPS and most of them are
controlled and quote unquote owned by
the big endowments, there's a tremendous
opportunity there. As the industry gets
bigger and there's probably now 10,000
funds in the marketplace, maybe 10,000
plus, it's gotten quite crowded. And
when trades get crowded, it starts to
feel more like beta and performance
dispersion cortiles get very very wide
and due diligence becomes critically
important. Getting access to the very
very talented managers in that top
cortile become very very difficult and
nobody wants to admit they own the
median manager but collectively we own
the median manager. So I think there are
some challenges there and as I said a
moment ago I'm not anti-private markets
and maybe an observation there is that
if you think about wealth creation I
think for most of us it's better to be
done a little bit at a time have an
asset allocation mix have a game plan
have a steady investment rotation
rebalance not every single day but maybe
annually or quarterly and let the power
of compounding take care of itself. Now
there are some in this world and I'll
put myself in this category but not at
the Elon Musk level where there is an
opportunity where you become an
entrepreneur. You start a business up
and you're able to grow a business, grow
the ibidot and sell it to somebody else
and that's a bit of a step function in
your balance sheet. Now failure is
always an option but the outcome can be
very very good. And if you look at most
of the ultra high netw worth individuals
in this world other than inheritance,
the vast majority of them have made that
capital in the private market. So there
is a tremendous opportunity. But it is a
question about what you're going to get
exposure to. And if the hurt money and
the entrepreneur is not the same as me
starting a business where I know the
business and failure cannot be an option
for me because I care so much about it,
the outcomes can be very very different.
So I think that's the ying and the yang.
But you mentioned some of these
alternative alternatives. I think we
should maybe just spend a moment on that
as well because if I like baseball cards
or art or wine or race cars, then there
could be somewhere between a hobby and
an investment because I just love being
in the game. But be very careful about
when you're crossing that line. And if
you're putting 20% of your net worth
into something that you like but maybe
don't fully understand and have great
transparency to you got to be very very
careful. So I think for the listeners
and maybe some of your views on this
George is that I think those are maybe
more natural entry points because it's
something we understand a little bit and
if we understand it more than a little
bit there are some wine-based funds for
instance that can be very very
profitable and those are more niche
offerings and less efficient markets. So
the alpha upside is greater. But maybe
talk about the contrast between
alternative alternatives and the
alternatives that most of these big PE
shops are trying to bring to the average
retail investor. Let's just talk about
wine investing. There's platforms who
you invest in wine and the pitch is that
it's going to go up. That's what they
offer you. But from what I gather, you
can also this is custodied carefully and
under your name and if anything goes
wrong, you can access the wine and
there's something you can do with it if
it's not investing. So I can totally see
that the mix of lifestyle benefits and
potential investment. Why not? Where I
think it's a bit more problematic is for
example certain art platform for
investors where you don't see the art.
You're not going to get a piece of your
Picasso or whatever it is at home. So
it's not like you have any chance of
enjoying it. And on top of that, they
use the typical metrics that are for
relatively liquid alternative things
such as a sharp ratio, stuff like that,
the volatility of a painters market. And
of course, the result look fantastic.
But I think this type of marketing is
abusing the latitude they have in terms
of pitching those things. And then if we
look back at what's available on more
traditional things, there's also
something that I think I'm always
looking at it on a marketing angle, but
those perpetual funds, they also have
somehow an unfair advantage in terms of
marketing because we've seen some funds,
I don't know if I can mention them, but
it's one of the biggest real estate fund
the biggest real estate fund. I think
they managed to deliver an amazing user
experience to their user because what
users want is stable dividends, stable
or growing valuations and that's what
they've been delivering. But really it's
a huge effort and really the real estate
market goes up and down. It's only
because there's limited liquidity that
they could do that. There's this
advantage of the private market which
you have more control of the volatility
or the valuation but it paints a picture
that's fantastic but it's a bit too good
compared to the true nature of it. It
doesn't mean that private real estate
private equity is not good but it's very
easily confused for someone who's not an
expert just like irr is something that's
really easily confused with returns. You
cannot say that people are not someone
that's wealthy, you know, highly
worthwhile individual will generally
understand that we talk about very two
very different things. So those are the
things that as someone that's been
working in marketing in these financial
markets, I'm particularly aware of when
we talk about democratization is the way
we present things. I think it needs a
lot more I don't know if it's regulation
or some kind of change in the rules. A
couple things in that I want to talk
about Picasso and also maybe first real
estate and I assume in the example you
were talking about it may or may not
have been I'm guessing it might have
been B reach couple observations there
one is I think it underscored the rapper
problem we have not found the killer app
for the rapper for the retail investor
and what do they want they want
liquidity should they have it no Swenson
didn't have it and you look at what
happens when you give them liquidity in
the affformentioned morning star
example, they trade their way to leaving
100 basis points on the table. And if we
do that with the private markets where
there's quarterly windows, I just don't
know how that's going to end well. And I
would almost like to envision a scenario
where there are no windows. Liquidity
will be when liquidity is available. But
we have to create these vehicles with
1099s as opposed to K1s because people
don't want more taxes. every compromise
to please the end investor. I would love
to see somebody reconcile the basis
points cost of that because it's not
only the two and 20 on the tin. It's the
cost of bit ass spreads, transaction
costs, etc. But I will say you look at
the financial times as an example and
not exactly lovers of alternative
investments. Sometimes they get it
right, sometimes they get it wrong. And
I think where they got it wrong with B
Reit and S Reed and others is that the
poor shareholder that wanted to get out
couldn't get out. And I'm saying they
should have never come in in the first
place. And if I'm a shareholder and I
understood the value proposition, I did
my due diligence. I knew there was a 5%
quarterly window, but I came in. My
expectation is everybody to my left and
right bought in as well. And that
liquidity valve is sort of a break the
glass in cases of emergency situation.
Not because you don't like the
short-term trade between publicly traded
REITs and private real estate, but the
glass is broken by too many people and
the fund than gated. So, I think that
we've got to fix that issue, which is I
think we have a tendency to give the
investor what they want because it's an
easier sale, but is it a better outcome?
Is it a better asset gathering mechanism
for the GP, but less of a value creation
mechanism for the end investor? And I
think time has told us again and again
that given too much liquidity, the
investors not trained well enough to
understand what they should do with it.
Therein I think lies a big problem with
the rappers. But I'll park that for a
second. You can comment on it when I
finish my segue to Picasso. George, and
you're going to say, "How the hell is
this guy going from real estate to
Picasso?" You open an interesting door
there, too. It would be virtually
impossible for you, myself, or the
average listener to go out and buy a
Picasso. But art is an interesting
opaque asset class. It's largely
inefficient. Price discovery is
challenging. But if you look at some of
these big art holders like Steve Cohen
at 72, he's made a boatload of money
trading art. But if somebody came to me
and said that they have the ability to
fractionalize a Picasso and it's very
very transparent, I'm going to buy it
for $100 million and I have 100 million
shareholders and every fractional share
is worth a buck. What should I put you
down for? And if I trust the person
buying it and there's a governance
structure where they're going to sell it
when it reaches a certain price now I
can participate as a buyer at a fair
price, hold it for long term and sell it
as well. And I think that could be
interesting but the ability to do that
is most likely going to be on blockchain
and the power of distributed ledger and
going from tradi to DeFi. So, I dumped a
lot on your front doorstep there from
rappers to Picasso to DeFi, but I'll let
you take that and run with it in
whatever direction you choose. Yeah,
I'll try to take in their order. I think
yes indeed this liquidity is such a
ridiculous thing. The example we give is
imagine if you're in your house and your
neighbor knocks at the door every day
and I don't know you bought it 100,000
and he knocks and say I buy it you can
buy mine 100,000 101 one day 1029 etc.
That's what the stock market does and it
would drive her crazy. The answer to
that is I guess the Buffett way to say
oh I will not listen to anything except
if it's silly whatever he says she wakes
up the neighbor comes and says you
bought it 100,000 today it's 300,000 oh
well I might take the opportunity of
that so that would be the wise way to do
it to believe in it in those assets in
the long term and well if Mr. market's
going crazy. Let's take the opportunity.
But it's extremely hard to do. The
second thing just in terms of those
rappers if those things are not liquid
really you cannot invent liquidity. I
mean you can gate it somehow but when
you need the liquidity is when it
doesn't work and bre has done a
tremendous job at maintaining it doing
this incredible deal with the University
of California. This fund is a tremendous
success. They raised 70 billion at some
point. It's almost $1 billion in fees in
record time. I mean, the next biggest
real estate fund, which is the Vineard
World Real Estate, is an ETF that trades
in at 10 basis points or something like
that. Maybe 20 and it has 20 billion.
It's like the giant. So, they raised 70
billion and I don't think if they had
been fully transparent in terms of what
the liquidity really really is, they
would have gone anything close to that.
So, you need to find this balance. The
second aspect, so that's more technical.
blockchain. Yes. And some people do
that. They tokenize the paintings. I
think what they do is actually quite
funny. I mean, there might be different
ways, but I saw some that actually cut,
I mean, not cut, but grid the painting
and say, "Hey, we own each one square
cm." And therefore, you own each NFT.
This is not a share of the painting.
It's a nonfgeible aspect of it. What you
have to look at is looking back at the
incentives. Since we've been talking
about it, I really like this idea. But
one of the things for the company that I
hadn't mentioned, but Master Works is
they do that without tokenization, the
kind of IPO thing, but they take 11% up
front and then the fees are not very
high, 2% management fee, 20% carry. So
they take 11% up front. So you need to
dig to find this out. And what does it
mean? taking a large percentage of means
you have an incentive to distribute
those to the public much more than you
have an incentive to realize the
investment and therefore the incentive
is to market it those are all wonderful
things and yes why not token nice
paintings and distribute I don't know if
art has really proven itself to be such
a good asset class but we hear those
stories but anyway it's wonderful
imagine saying you can own a picasso
that comes into the our dimension of
investing that I mentioned I paid for
the ability to talk about it at dinner
parties if I was into that. But there's
always going to be more and therefore
you have to be very careful when jumping
on those weird and wonderful ideas
unless you do totally for fun. But some
people on the other side are not doing
it for fun. So that would be my note of
caution on this thing and that has been
I would say unfortunately my journey so
far when really looking at this
enthusiastically and then turning around
realizing okay now I see the trick is
here and there so this democratization
of alals is something to be careful
there's this company called als and they
typically do these kind of things
basically they give access to all sort
of things one thing that struck me is
they do a tequila trip to invest into
tequila so you go there you visit the
things etc. And obviously I guess you
taste it and this is not the right time
to make investment decision but what a
wonderful idea if you're grounded and
you're not going to put like a
significant amount of your assets. This
is again not black and white. There's
different aspects to it. Tequila and
also time shares and how many people
have bought time shares while they're
maybe having a couple of shots of
tequila on vacation and how many people
regret doing that? I think most do. But
a couple things, George, I want to cover
in the remaining minutes. It's an
interesting tactic because coming into
this thought about what am I going to
talk to George about? Governance was not
on my list, but I see that you sit on a
couple boards and governance is so very
important and you just gave me a bit of
an opening here with what went on with
Beread as an example. And I think part
of this democratization move is that if
I'm pick any GP, it doesn't have to be
Blackstone, pick any single one from
small, medium to large in terms of AUM
in the institutional space, they're
accountable to maybe 7 to 10 investors
in that fund and they may have to fly
over to Abu Dhabi investment authority
and explain what went wrong with this
particular investment. And there are
very informed and maybe difficult
discussions, but you've got a lot of
smart people on both sides of the table.
And there's this concept of an LPAC, a
limited partner advisory committee that
is the shareholders of the shareholders,
the LPS, the LPs who have certain rights
that are codified in a limited
partnership agreement with that same GP.
When we move toward
democratization, where is the retail
investors LPAC? When do they have the
big GP fly to their home and explain
what went right and what went wrong? And
if you look at Bere as an example, sure
University of California Regent has far
greater understanding and access to
what's going on behind that curtain than
the average retail investor, but they're
in that fund Perry Pasu. So you don't
necessarily need to comment on any of
that. But I think if we're going to move
into the direction of greater access,
the governance model has got to move in
conjunction with that. And there can be
a lag and a gap, but it's got to be some
plan to catch it back up again. I don't
know if I see it. And maybe a smart Alec
would say, well, is it any different
with a public mutual fund in the
long-term equity space where there's a
whole bunch of shareholders? Yes and no.
There's independent directors that have
oversight and accountability
responsibility. So there's some
structure there, but the ability to get
hurt around that mediate is very very
tight. And then you as a shareholder can
decide you're going to go invest in
another fund or index your money.
There's a lot of other risk factors in
play. And unless the governance moves in
that direction, I think we're setting
ourselves up for median type results or
maybe even to some degree failure,
however one defines it. So what are your
thoughts about where we are based on
your governance experience in mind where
the governance model is visav
democratization and has it become an
afterthought that really nobody is
paying close attention to? I think one
of the pitches is to say look you can
now do what the most sophisticated
investors do or at least you can access
those same asset classes but it's at a
very different ball game. you draw the
parallel with the public funds, but
private equity. What's wonderful about
this is that there's so many things you
can do right now because it's slowing
down. It's kind of, like you say,
lengthening, merging with private
credit, secondaries. Anyway, it's a very
creative space. There's a lot more
leeway in the manager. Plus, they own
the company fully. What the public
equity manager can do is maybe just sell
it or not own it, and that's valid. So
therefore there's this dynamic between
LP and GP and it's extremely
complicated. If things go wrong it's
like okay my lawyers talk to your
lawyers and we'll see that's excluded
from this. I don't know where we're
heading into this but it's okay if
people have this perception of okay I'm
in a fer I'm here for the ride and I'm
definitely not thinking of myself as
strengthen the GP in these things. That
means as well that your allocation to
this has to be proportionate to the risk
you're taking and the risk you're taking
is very significant. That's why as well
the idea that a significant portion of
your asset should be tied to this I
think is problematic. But again if
you're diversifying away maybe that's
the right approach until these things
evolve and I don't know how the balance
can compete further into these high net
worth individual that are participate
but that's it. I think one of the things
maybe big picture is democratization
should be opening slowly and people
should be allowed to dip their toes
experiences for years and years and
years see the outcome and then open a
bit faster but obviously the problem is
that it's not happening you mentioned
Jack Bogle earlier and he had a great
piece well over 20 30 years ago on not
being able to serve two masters and
there are inherent conflicts of interest
and we all are aware of that the GP has
responsibility to clients but also
partners and shareholders in many of
these big GPS or public companies. So,
we have to recognize there are going to
be certain conflicts of interest and the
person making the decision about
accessing that product might be an RAIA.
It's not an employee of that big GP. So,
it's complicated to use that phrase. And
when I think about who's watching my
back when I'm sleeping, there are
governance structures in place for some
of these offerings. But the concept of
the institutional relationship though
with an LPAC where there's greater
accountability and transparency back to
the individual investor, it's not there.
And you can't possibly have a big firm
and let's leave Blackstone alone for the
time being. A big firm like KKR or
Apollo flying their jet to every
individual shareholder. Even the cut off
is $50,000. That's a lot of mouths to
feed. So, how is that wholesomely
communicated in a regular basis? And
what are the blocks or the blocking
power that those LPs because I guess
they're technically LPs but more
shareholders. How do we manifest that
self that itself? I don't know. And I
guess maybe the good news, George, is
it's not for you and I to solve because
we're on a different side of the table.
But you and I talk to a lot of very very
smart people. We talked to people making
decisions and this platform is one of
discovery and I don't know if I've
really have gone too deeply into this
governance structure and LPACS versus no
ELPAC. So if nothing else you've given
me something new to think about and
maybe you can come back someday with an
answer when you talk to your very very
smart guests on your platform as well.
Well, we did start the conversation by
saying we need to continue it. So
there's something to discuss for the
next episode. If I just hint on one
second of this, I think there's this
educational thing. The answer might be
I'm putting words in their mouth from
GPS that they're doing a lot of efforts
for educating by they all have
theirademies, but really you need to
think of what sort of education I mean
I'm sure it's quality education but it's
obviously very biased and therefore I
think that's where other institution not
with a vested interest have to play a
greater role. Kaya and other people.
That's a great point and maybe a good
place to leave it. And I don't directly
have governance responsibility for Kaya
anymore, but did for over a decade and
an organization I've loved and now
continue to reach root for like you as a
member because I think that they are
completely independent and their goal is
to not be pro or con when it comes to
alts. They're just got to be a rapid
source of transparency and education and
arm the uninvestor with as much
knowledge as possible and that could
make them very well equipped to access
the many many risks in the private
markets. But without democratizing
education first, I feel the value
proposition is going to be left wanting
and maybe even something worse than
that. So George, as you alluded to a
moment ago, we're going to continue this
conversation on your platform. I think
that this episode and yours might be
released around the same time and I
think you're using video. You're ahead
of us a little bit. So, there might be
some opportunities there when people see
our smiling faces and the animation that
comes with this conversation which you
don't get when you're just listening to
it. But I look forward to that as well.
And I think having this dual release is
something new for me. But I appreciate
your membership, your curiosity, which I
think is the most important aspect of
being a good podcast host. and look
forward to being back on your platform
someday very very soon. Absolutely,
Bill. It's been a great pleasure. Thank
you so much. And I will say happy Greek
Independence Day today. I'm not sure
when this will be aired, but it's 25th
of March today, George, and I know your
heritage. Great. Thank you.
Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's c
aia.org. See you next time.
