Hey everyone. What happens when you have
a load of tests that are failing because
you've modified your application? You've
made some changes. You've improved stuff
and now the tests are failing. That's
great because the test should fail if
you make those changes. But when you're
sure that the code has changed and the
test is now not going to match, then
basically you can use the healer agent
to improve this. So for example, I've
got a get by roll menu item. I know I
changed the menu item because that was
the wrong accessible um code for for
this the wrong element. So I've made
some changes and we've modified it and
I've gone through all of these um these
error messages here and I can see yeah I
get old text box. I know this is
actually a combo box because I know I've
watched the agent do the job. The agent
actually improved the website for me. So
now I'm clear these tests need to be
fixed and I can go and manually tweak
them. I could fix with AI. I could use
the copy prompt button. But I'm going to
use Playright agents. Now I've already
got Playrite agents installed. So check
out the docs for more info on how to
install them with the latest version of
Playright. And now I've got the
Playright planner generator and healer.
But I've already got tests. I don't need
to generate anything. I just need to
heal. So let's go ahead and click on
that one. And then I can basically um I
can have the actual um one open here,
the test that I want to work on. And I
could say uh fix this failing test.
Um, so I can go ahead and just fix this
one test if I wanted to just make sure
it focuses on one test or I could
basically say just go ahead and run and
fix all tests. Now I've already got um
the run tests already um included here.
Um and now I've got to improve this one.
The tool result for run it's running a
list of tests. So I'm going to say allow
um allow without review because I really
just want it to go ahead and do its
thing. So this is um it's running the
test to see what's failing. It's now
running the test in debug mode. This is
really cool. So it's the creating new
lists uh create list with valid details.
That's the file I have open here. So
it's found the right test and it's
running two tests. Two tests. Why two
tests? Because I have a login first.
It's got a login to be able to do it. So
it's run the the um test here to be able
to log in. Uh that's the setup test. And
you can see that um this is the the
output in here. It doesn't have access
to my credentials because I'm using uh
project dependencies. So it can log in
without actually seeing any login
details. And then it's got to this test
here. The locator get by roll text box
name public list expected yes and a
timeout because the element is not
found. Expected to have value. So it
sees the issue. The test is looking for
a text box uh with a name public list
and it should be a combo box like we
mentioned. So now it's asking me to
approve uh this the console um the page
snapshot. It's taking a page snapshot of
everything that it needs to see. So
that's great. And let's go ahead and do
that. Um I'm going to have to zoom down
a bit just so I can see the button.
There you go. So I'll go allow um always
without review because I wanted to go
ahead and let's zoom in back in again.
Okay. So now it's got the page snapshot.
It can see exactly um what is on the
page, what that element is now called.
And it can see the field is a combo box,
not a text box. The test needs to be
updated and it's going to go fix that
test.
And now it's going to restart the test
to verify the fix. This is really
important. It doesn't just fix it. It
then runs it that debug single test
again to just make sure that that is
actually the fix. Maybe there's another
error. Maybe it's going to find
something else, but it's running it.
It's fixing it. And uh it comes along
here and it's basically said yes, this
has run. The test has run. You can see
it here. Uh the output two tests passed
and um
and then we can go ahead and just it's
showing me it's changed it from this to
this test now successfully navigates to
the crate list. It does etc. blah blah
blah. We can go ahead and keep that uh
for our own check. If we're unsure and
we don't believe that the AI did exactly
what it was meant to do, we can go ahead
and run that test ourselves and see for
ourselves that that did pass. And then
we could basically just continue um this
procedure uh with all our other tests
that are failing. We can do them one by
one. Um or we could ask it to just
basically go and um run and fix all
failing tests
and then it will just go ahead and it
will run all the tests. It will find all
the ones. Now it first needs to identify
which ones are failing and then fix them
systematically. Now couple of things to
notice here. If you are running the
test, I am running in headless merge.
How I've done that is over here. Over
here when you install the um mcp.json,
you've got I've got headless in here in
the args. So when you're including um
the playright test mcp server, you can
go ahead and add d- headless so that you
don't have that browser window popping
up. And that just means everything is
going to run behind the scenes so you
can continue um doing what you want to
doing. Um if you want to see what's
going on, just remove that and then you
be able to watch everything. So it's
going to run the tests here and it's got
the two projects. There's quite a lot of
tests that it needs to run here under
the hood. So it's going to take a little
bit of time to do that. It's going to
find the tests that need failing. Again,
you could totally go along here and just
drag in the test into context and then,
you know, go through it one by one and
keep an eye on it. And of course, make
sure you're using git to then um see
that this is exactly what you what the
change that you made so you're able to
push that to production correctly and
easily uh see the changes, etc. Um so
that's it. Happy testing with the
Playride Healer. Uh get those tests
healed. Um, it's totally amazing to
watch it in action.
