[Music]
Hello and welcome to the Enterprising
Investor, the flagship of investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wahberg and I'm thrilled to have my old
friend Barbara Stewart back on the show.
Barbara is a CFA charter holder with
more than 30 years of experience as an
FX trader, high net worth manager, and
in more recent years as a researcher,
writer, and keynote speaker about women
and finance. Barbara publishes a major
piece of research generally once per
year called a rich thinking study, which
uncovers out insights gained through a
massive undertaking of interviews with
people all over the world. In recent
years, she's written about the sometimes
surprising things people hold in their
investment portfolios, how people invest
in themselves, and how smart women made
their money. This year, Barbara asked 54
men and women, "What's the smartest
thing you ever did?" I look forward to
hearing some of those great stories.
Welcome back to the show, Barbara. Thank
you so much. I'm honored to be here
again, Mike. So, I mentioned a few of
those great studies that you did over
the years. What What prompted the topic
this year, Barbara? The same thing that
always prompts my topic, which is just
random thought comes into my brain. I'm
being honest. I I like to ask one
open-ended research question a year
because I'm always trying to get at the
background stories and what really
motivates people. And I hadn't really
thought about what's so smart, what what
do we do that's smart? And it just
popped into my head. So I thought, let's
just run with it. I usually just trust
my intuition on these kind of things.
And it turned out to be a very fun year
of interviews. So who did you end up
talking to this time around? And I'm I'm
thinking just like where around the
world cuz it's always so fascinating to
me where you end up. Well, every year
it's slightly different. Sometimes
there's new countries. I was in
Australia more than usual. Uh last year
I was in Jakarta. I was in Singapore,
Malaysia,
Taipei,
Sweden, of course, Denmark, Turkey, and
North America. Wow. Wow. We really got
around some great some great countries
in there. some of some of my favorites
that I've been to and some that are on
my list for sure. So, let's let's get
into the findings here. Barbara, one of
the things I I was that jumped out at me
in reading your report was that you
wrote that the most surprising finding
was that about 25% of the people
interviewed said the smartest thing
they've ever done was follow a unique
interest that led to unimagined success.
And that's always you always kind of
hear about that where folks really make
their fortune in some sort of small
niche area that you you never think
about with that that someone's someone's
going to make their money, someone's
going to do it in that one area and
really was following that gut. It sounds
like with some of the people that you
talked to. So I was curious if you could
tell us some of their stories. Yeah,
I'll give you a couple of examples
because I think any one of us at any
point you can just either see something
as an opportunity or not and maybe you
just jump at something and it changes
your entire perspective and entire life.
So, one fellow in Singapore that I met
with, Raphael NG, he told me that
growing up his parents owned a dance
studio and he had tried every single
kind of dance because they wanted him to
follow in their footsteps and nothing
whatsoever appealed to him until one day
he decided to try ballet and he was the
only guy in the whole ballet school. and
people would make fun of him and
culturally it was kind of off-brand and
everything else for a guy to be in the
school. But it turned out to be the best
thing he ever did because not only did
he become kind of famous in a in a way
in in his high school, but he got
amazing job opportunities, scholarships
out of it. He met incredible people. It
really built out his network. He just
got noticed because he was this ballet
guy as well as doing well academically.
He also met his future wife. So ballet
certainly was the smartest thing he ever
did. No question. And we had a we had an
interesting panel discussion at a CFA
Society Singapore event in April around
that and he joined us. So it was great.
Another woman who I met in Taipei, her
name is Nikki Yang. She's a professional
investment manager actually. She told me
that the smartest thing she ever did was
learn Japanese. And it came about also
randomly. She was sitting on a train and
got into a conversation. She's from
Taipei. She got in a conversation with a
woman from Japan. They became fast
friends and she learned that the the
method of communication was radically
different. She said that in Taipei,
people are very direct with each other.
And this woman in Japan was very sort of
empathetic, emotional. She said Japanese
people can read the air is how she put
it. And she was so impressed by this
woman and it changed again her
perspective that she decided to learn
the entire language. And she said it's
been the smartest thing she ever did
because not only is she more empathetic
and better in business, it actually
helped her career enormously and her
life. Wow. It's amazing how how language
can can hide things culturally about
about a people. Hey, I remember reading
years ago about the differences between
Italian and English. This is a bit of an
aside here, but just this idea in
English you'd say he broke the vase and
in Italians they would say the vase was
broken
and there's not that there's not that
implicit blame immediately in that
language which I always thought was kind
of beautiful and nice as well. One of
the other stories in there that jumped
out for me, Barbara, was it wasn't all
about uh well it was about success all
around but it wasn't all sort of puppy
dogs and and rainbows. Ryan Holman was
one story that that I that stuck out for
me, which was just this idea of working
on himself. He struggled with drugs and
alcohol and and was a good starting
point for
that was sort of the smartest thing that
he ever did, which was to sort sort of
get his own internal house in order. Um,
which which, you know, was was kind of a
nice rounding out of the of the
research, I thought. Yeah, he's in
Australia and he he's quite something to
talk to. like he was really uh at the
end of the line in terms of wanting to
end his life and all of that. And a
young guy, you know, just too involved
in drugs, unfortunately. And he went
into a rehab center and luckily it was a
really effective one. And they taught
him, you know, to flip things upside
down in terms of how he was looking at
the world and life. And instead of
thinking everything was a downward
spiral, they helped him realize that if
he started today with a new attitude,
and it sounds very simplistic, but it
actually was effective. And I'm sure
there is a lot more to it. Just he now
thinks of it as the rest of his life.
He's not going to worry about anything
negative. He's built an entire plumbing
business that's become really, really
successful. And he's been, I think,
clean for at least five years now. So
obviously smart thing was going to rehab
in his case. Wow. And another thing that
stood out for me as well was this the
concept of eeky guy. Can can you tell me
about eeky guy? Am I am I pronouncing
that right? I think so. Yes. This was a
woman that I met actually I met with her
for coffee in Toronto which was nice in
person but she came from uh Argentina
originally and she had just had a lot of
life changes. The relationship had
ended. She'd been in the corporate world
for many, many years in big jobs, senior
executive, big mainstream corporates,
and one day she just decided she'd had
enough. And she really felt like she
needed to rejig her soul, her life, the
whole thing. And that concept of I I
can't even pronounce it eeky jaw or
whatever it is was something she just
came across in a bookshop and decided to
read all about it and just ended up
living it which was essentially just
change her whole pattern of life, change
her whole energy and follow what was
sort of meaningful to her and her I mean
she shifted absolutely everything in her
life in a great way. So that was just
like, you know, you go into a bookstore
and there's a word you've never seen and
you go down that rabbit hole and you're
like, "Okay, I'm a new person now." So
you talk in the book about shifting your
perspectives, thinking differently, but
also one of the themes you uncovered as
well was like physically moving moving
your life. That was one of the best
things that some folks did as well. Can
you talk a bit about some of the this
the stories that stood out for you in
this sort of hit the road Jack or Jill
was the section that that you called it?
Yeah, I mean the big thing in the whole
paper is that big changes lead to big
rewards and I had four types of big
changes that the research uncovered
mainly and those were like either
changing your mindset, changing your
career, changing your financial
situation or to your point changing your
city. And one of the interesting things
about the category changing your city
was that twice the number of men as
women that I interviewed did that. So
everything else was sort of gender equal
in terms of the other categories, but
more men than women changed city as the
smartest thing they ever did. I don't
know why that was. I didn't get into I
didn't ask why. I suppose one could
surmise that maybe men have more
flexibility if they're not the primary
caregiver or I don't I don't even know
if that's true, but that would be
perhaps a subject for another research
report. I'm not sure. But men seem to be
more mobile in general. But in terms of
people changing cities, it's just
wonderful to see this happen and they
just literally just jump at an
opportunity and go. And so one woman in
Galway, Ireland, her name is Barbara
Ortiz. She's an electronics engineer.
She decided to move to Antarctica for a
job opportunity as one of I think 10% of
women in Antarctica working on this oil
rig or whatever it was. And she loved it
so much the change of seeing a
completely different continent that she
made a pact with herself that she would
work in all of the continents around the
world. and she's ended up doing just
that. Subsequent to my interview, she's
now living in the Arctic in another big
job as an engineer. So, it's just funny
going to one continent, she just, you
know, that was such an experience
opening her mind that she just, okay,
I'm doing all of them now. This is what
I'm doing with the rest of my life. So,
sounds like you made the same impact
with yourself, Barbara. Yeah. Only in
hindsight do I realize
wasn't quite as deliberate upfront.
Also, one of our CFA, a fellow CFA
charter holders that you might know,
Steve Baliban. He talks a lot about
private equity and he's done some
recordings on that, has his own company
with the private equity boot camps. I
interviewed him last year and he didn't
change for one city, but he's now
visited 85 different cities around the
world and he wouldn't want it any other
way. He said, you know, there's always
an opportunity cost when you make any
decision. And he's given up the
opportunity for a stable, maybe less
exciting lifestyle, but he figures while
he's on the planet, he he'd rather see
85 cities and see learn about all of the
people everywhere. I certainly that
resonated with me, of course. Yeah. And
that and that was that was sparked from
uh doing some study during uh during
high school. I I remember reading that
he did a a month in the UK included
three weeks at Oxford, which is it's so
formative, isn't it? That early travel
that you do. I I am always trying to
inculcate that love of that with my own
daughter. She's she's only 13 now, but
it is really formative to sort of see
the world and understand what all is out
there and how important it is to
experience those other cultures and
imprint that. Um because it sounds like
that really affected him. Yeah. Yeah. I
mean, when I was 16, I visited France
with my school and now here I am uh you
know, many many years later with a
little apartment in France. Yeah. Yeah.
That's awesome. So, one of the one of
the the headings that you we talked
about and you mentioned there was this
idea of this pivot and prosper. So,
pivoting to something new and scary and
and a lot of entrepreneurs seem to have
emerged in your study from that as well.
Who who who stood out for you in that?
Oh, off the top of my head, I think one
of the women that really had an effect
on me. And it's it's not about big money
or big success type of pivot was this
woman in Denmark named Jetta who she
decided to follow the Buddhist faith.
And it was simply by going to a lecture
with a a a sister's friend once and she
was just along for the ride and sitting
in the audience and just spellbound. She
decided, I don't know what I'm going to
do with the rest of my life, but I know
that I'm going to become a Buddhist. So,
she completely had the mindset shift
that changed her entire life. And now
she she doesn't earn a ton of money or
anything like that, and she's certainly
not like a big-time entrepreneur, but
she's volunteering at a Buddhist place,
and she is educating all kinds of
people, and she's like the happiest
person I've ever met.
Amazing. Yeah, you had a lot of
entrepreneurs in there and the thing
that stood stood out for me was just
this idea a lot of the folks as you know
I I mean we won't ask you today because
you've been on a couple times and you
you've given your answer but this this
uh the question that I ask at the end of
each interview is you know what piece of
advice would you give to your younger
self and what comes up fairly often is
this idea of taking risks when you're
younger taking risks when you can afford
them and that seems to have been a theme
that came through your work here which
is I wish that I had you know the
smartest thing I ever did was quit my
job and start a business and the only my
only regret around that was that I wish
I had done it earlier when I you know I
could have been doing it longer I when I
when I had the opportunity and I had
less to lose I guess which which I
thought was quite cool so many people
one woman in Hong Kong who had a
brilliant career with Tiffany's uh she
wrote up the corporate letter still very
young and then at one point she just
thought I've been here 12 years and I
can see that I'm going to be ending up
as an executive in this company.
Everything's laid out in front of me,
but I don't want that. And so she just
yes jumped ship. It took her almost a
year to get on her feet. So it wasn't
all smooth sailing from there. A hugely
risky strategy, but then ended up
deciding to form her own company and she
does coaching with executives and she's
never looked back. She's been extremely
successful for the last 15 years or so.
Amazing. Yeah, that's Irene Sang, I
think, was that who that was. Yeah. And
then I'm always impressed when I read
about this. I don't know what it is
about doctors and lawyers, but Elizabeth
Corbett there as well. You know, a
lawyer, a lawyer who became a doctor.
It's like, well, she's just had so much
school. So, she goes to law school,
she's articling, she's in a firm earning
money as a junior lawyer, and then she
decides this isn't for me. This isn't my
calling after all of that time studying.
And so she decides to go to medicine
school and you know gives up a salary
has to go back and study. I mean what a
huge cost there is associated with this
smart thing that she did. Luckily she
said she had the support of her husband
and her parents and they all were really
kind to her and you know let her do all
of the stuff. Meanwhile she has three
kids while she's doing all this. She
gives birth at like three shits along
the way while she's becoming a medical
doctor. And so yeah, she's now working
in the Sydney hospital as an emergency
uh doctor and she loves it. Luckily, she
likes this career. Except after all
that, it would be bad if she didn't like
it. I'm I'm suddenly feeling very
inadequate.
Some of the people I meet make me feel
that way, honestly. It's just like I'm
really not accomplishing that much after
all. Yeah. So,
so you're a charter holder. I'm a CFA
charter holder. Let's talk finances.
Some of the stories that came out of
this were also the best things they did
were, you know, get control of their
finances, getting education.
What What did you learn there? Yeah, I
think I mean one guy that I interviewed
also in Australia, he talked about how
his whole life, even though he worked in
the finance industry, he'd never taken
his own personal finances that
seriously. And I can certainly relate to
that. I was definitely a late start
investor. So, he said he he realized he
had been kind of scared of money, like
he'd spend all the money that he'd make
and he he almost was scared of amassing
wealth. And I can also relate to that as
well. I like spending. But he was at the
gym one day and he overheard a guy
listening to a podcast. And usually we
don't really want to overhear other
people's podcast. But in this case, it
was really effective because it was
about getting control of your life, all
categories of your life, six or seven
categories. And finances weren't
actually included, he said, in the
podcast, but the podcast got him
thinking it should be a category. and he
realized that was his own weakness. So
he answered all of the same questions
about all the other categories but
relating to his finances and that
shifted him completely. So he from that
moment on went into that kind of retire
early uh what is it called fire movement
or something like that and put you know
everything all organized. He's done it
for the past three years. He's now going
to be able to retire at 45. He just got
super super focused based on listening
to this one thing. So that was the
smartest thing that that he ever did.
Wow. So my my question for you this this
time around rather than the the the
standard one then is uh what's Barbara
what's the smartest thing that you ever
did? Definitely rich thinking research.
You know again it's I only know this in
hindsight. I thought I was going to
write one paper because I was irritated
by stereotypes around women and money.
And I thought maybe if I could share
some positive success stories, we could
counter those stereotypes. But once I
released that one paper, luckily for me,
it got picked up in the Nordics by some
banks, banks that were holding women's
events. and everybody just was so
encouraging when I was presenting this
stuff that I ended up deciding to keep
doing an annual report and releasing it
on International Women's Day. And CFA
Institute also is incredibly supportive
sending me around the world. So I had no
idea all of that would come about. It
wasn't what I intended initially. I just
wanted to put out some sort of stark
piece of research that countered
stereotypes. But now I've gone on,
continued and built this huge global
network where I've interviewed more than
probably 1500 people around the world,
probably 2,000 at this point, and it's
just been so rewarding and shifted my
whole career in this direction to
commissioned research now as well. So,
no question in my mind that that's been
the smartest thing I ever did. Well,
that's fantastic. I I've really enjoyed
hearing the stories from these reports.
Um, I've been speaking today with
Barbara Stewart, keynote speaker and
author of the rich thinking studies. For
a condensed summary of this year's
report, you can also find a blog post on
the enterprising investor blog. So,
thanks for again for coming back,
Barbara. It's it's always so fun having
you on. My pleasure. Thanks so much,
Mike. I'm Mike Walberg and this is being
the enterprising investor.
