Rachel, a motion designer who managed to
gain over 48,000 followers on social
media by creating clean, smooth, and
highly polished motion graphics. In this
video, I'm randomly choosing one of his
projects and recreate it from scratch so
you can understand exactly how this kind
of professional motion is built.
So, let me give you some brief
explanation about the project and
project file. So, if you see this, this
is the reference that I previously made
it. And we're going to exactly remade
this video. And the composition setting
would be 1080 1080 and uh 594 or maybe
60. It doesn't matter. Or even you can
make it less or higher. It doesn't
matter. Whatever it works for you would
be good. We have a asset folder that I
put everything that we needed in
project. And also the reference video is
this Tik Tok video that I previously
made it. Also, shout out to Creator Lee
because the video will be from him and
I'm just recreating the video of him.
All right, so let's just start the
video. I'm going to make it solid with
this color. Or maybe I'm going to grab
this one as a reference. So, this one
will be much more accurate and putting
it a little bit down. Yeah, to be able
to see the text properly. And I just
want to w down the text. So, the font
will be SF Pro Display. And also, I'm
using the bold version. And you can find
the link in description for downloading
for completely free. So don't worry
about that. All right. So before I do
anything else, I just want to make the
color. So I'm going to give it a four
color gradient. And also this plugin
that I'm using it is FX console. So also
you can find the link on description for
this plugin and you can download it for
free because it's completely free. So
I'm going to grab a reference from this
for these two color and the other two
will be black. And I just need to pay
with the uh points that I have over here
and put the color in a right spot. So as
you can see this is kind of similar to
what I have over here pre- competit and
why I'm doing it because right now if I
move this text you see the gradient will
be changed cuz the point over here are
kind of steady and they're not going to
move with your text. So it's going to
ruin your text in your text animation.
So for make it a steady and stable I
just want to make this a composition.
But before I make the composition I'm
going to use some kind of script which
is text explorer that you can find the
link on description also for this one.
I'm going to set it like this and then
hit the apply. So I'm going to put the
words in different layer. I can access
them differently. So then I'm going to
pre-mp these layers one by one. So after
I pre-mp them one by one, I just need to
put the pre-MP anchor point at the
middle of the word. I'm going to give it
a position and opacity for all of them
and come a little bit forward and put
other key frame for those. And I can
move them down a little bit and make the
opacity zero. So for making the graph
instead of using the graph editor I just
prefer to use from the flow. You can
find a link in description. I'm going to
give it some graph like this. And then
I'm going to apply five frame offset.
All right. So I'm going to have
something like this. And then I can use
the airplane vector that I put it on my
asset file. And maybe I change the
rotation to minus 45. Scale it down a
little bit. Put it at the bottom of the
scene like this. Maybe over here after
the text are completed. Uh I'm going to
just put a position key frame a little
bit forward. And then move their plane
to over here. Also, I just want to get
it down a little bit and pull it over
here. Yep, I think this is good. And I'm
going to reverse the value of the flow
and apply to the key frame. So, let me
hide this layer. And if you see at the
first is slow and and at the end it will
be a little bit faster. Not a little
bit, a lot faster. Okay. So, over here
it will be stopped. But I don't want
something like this. So, I'm going to
make a null object and then connect it
to this null object. Then put a T frame
for the position. move it a little bit
forward and maybe over here I'm going to
use this plugin which is a motion 4
instead of the graph editor and I'm
50/50 also you can find a link in
description for this one it's kind of
similar to the graph editor everything
will be similar you can do everything
over here in graph editor it just make
it a little bit easier so what I'm going
to do is make some null object for each
of these layer one by one and then
connect the text to that null object so
right now we'll have something like this
before I do anything else I just want to
move the anchor file like this one to
the center of each for like for example
this one is don't. So I'm going to move
the anchor point to the don't. So right
now I'm coming over here and I'm going
to select all of these like maybe the
rotation and position together put some
key frame for all of these um little bit
forward and put some key frame over here
but for all of them right so over here
I'm going to use these null object for
making some secondary action and
secondary movement. So I'm going to move
them like this. And I also can bring
back the reference to be able to have
accurate things and just put the word in
a right order. So in a final key frame
we have something like this. But I just
need to make a proper graph for these
key frames. I just want to select all
them and come into the flow. Reverse the
graph apply to the key frame. So we have
some heat like this. All right. In this
step what I'm going to do just making a
null object. change the color to make it
a little bit obvious comparison to the
other one. And just connect all these
null object that I previously made them
and make some movement like a secondary
movement making another null object and
change the color to make it much more
obvious the comparison to the other one
and connect these null object that we
previously work with them. So in this
step what I'm going to do is just making
a null object change the color to make
it much more obvious the comparison to
the other one. Select all the layers
like the null object that we previously
working with them and just par it to
this null object that I've just made it.
coming over here, finding the right spot
like maybe over here. Do a rotation for
the airplane. But before I do that, what
I'm going to do is like turn on the
title action safe and make sure that I'm
going to make this center. Put a
rotation key frame for over here. And
also put a position key frame for this
one. And maybe I'm going to go backward
for 20 frame and also go forward for 20
frame. So for the airplane, what I'm
going to do is just do some movement
like this at the middle and push it
through here. And for the words that we
have, I'm going to push them to the left
a little bit and push them to the right.
All right. So if I gave them this kind
of graph like 8080, which is kind of
faster at the middle and in the edges,
which is going to be over here and over
here or over here and over here, the
movement will be a little bit slower. I
can select all the key frame hold alt
and change the like distance between
these.
I give this airplane a CC toner. And if
I push the midtone to something like
white, you see that we can keep the
shadows and make the airplane white like
this. But I'm not going to have it like
this from the first of the sand. I don't
need before here for the airplane layer.
So I'm going to put a key frame for here
and push it to over here. Maybe over
here it should be zero and it should be
completely white. But over here I can
change the color to the real color. So
over here you see it kind of have real
color and whenever we come over here it
gets white whiter whiter and much more
whiter. And also I'm going to give it
fastbox blur. Make it three over here.
Put a key frame for this. And over here
I'm going to make a zero. So let me see
what happen over here.
Selecting all the words that I have, put
a key frame for the opacity. So the key
frame should be over here. And when
they're going to go to the right, they
also need to fade out. Like the opacity
would be zero.
I think something like this would be
good. So then I'm going to grab the
rectangle shape and make the fill black.
No stroke. And put this at the middle. I
bring this behind the airplane. Make
this center like this. And I'm going to
use property for give it some roundness.
If you don't have it, you can use window
over here. It's going to be over here.
You just need to turn it on. So right
now I'm going to give it something like
60. I think that would be good. Or maybe
a little bit less than 60. I'm going to
have this and I'm going to give it some
scale key frame and go forward for five
frame. And over here it should be zero.
And if I see it will be something like
this. And it's not that much good for
us. I need some bounce for this. So what
I'm going to do is just hold the alt and
hit the toggle animation for the scale.
And over here I can just paste the
script that I have. And you can also
find this in my discord channel. I put a
link on description. So if you see right
now it would be something like this. The
bounce would be too much for me right
now. And what I'm going to do just make
the distance double and make it 10 key
frame. It will be much more smoother
right now and I will like it a lot. I
need one more things over here and it's
about the rotation. I can make this key
frame linear cuz the scripts only work
on a linear key frame. So I'm going to
make this linear and from here because I
only want the bounce over here. So I'm
going to give the bounce to this layer.
I just want to cut it out from here and
just bring the rotation and give the
script to this one. So if you see right
now I have some bounce for the rotation
also. But because the graph will be
changed, I have to change the distance
between the rotation key frame over here
to make it much more smoother. All
right, this one should come over here.
Also, we have to change the opacity key
frame. Maybe make them much more closer.
Maybe bring it back a little bit. I
think that would be much more better.
Also, I'm going to duplicate this one.
Make the color about white. Okay, the
scale would be a little bit down, but
I'm going to give it fast. Maybe I need
more scale down over here. Something
like this. I can give it opacity. I
don't need it over here. Over here
should be zero. It's just going to be
some popin animation cuz it's going to
be disappear. I also going to give it
light sweep effect. Make some visual for
over here. Make the intensity a little
bit more more of it. Bring the intensity
a little bit down a bit. And I think
this one will be good. I can bring the
center to over here and give it some
kind of movement. I can put some key
frame for this one. Hit U to bring up
all the key frame for this layer. And
then
I can give it some 60 60. All right. So
this is awesome. Make a circle for this
one. Make it center. I'm going to come
over here. Turn this on. So I'm going to
pick a reference from this color. Make
it little bit intense. I can turn this
off. Put it back of everything. Center
here. I can scale it up and give it fast
box blur again to fade it out like this.
Yeah. And if I need I can scale it up
even more and play with the fast box
bar. What I'm going to do is just set
this out from here and give it some
opacity like this. Maybe at the first
going to be zero and after 20 frame and
again after 20 frame we're going to put
some key frame. All right. So over here
it should be 100 and over here it should
be zero. Over here also it should be
zero. And we have something like this.
Right? If I select all of them hold the
alt I can make the key frame much more
closer to each other. And I'm going to
have something like this. Right? uh need
to bring back the reference. What I'm
going to do is just make this clocks.
So, I'm going to bring up the vector
layer that I downloaded out and put it
on an asset folder. I have something
like this a triple clock over here. But,
we don't need to be worried about the
other one. We just need to pre-MP these
one. So, then I just need to duplicate
this one and just change the position
and rotation of this one.
Then I can open up the pre-MP over here
for one of them. Uh, I just want to grab
a reference from this one and put it
over here to make sure where I have to
put the animation and stuff. Maybe turn
on this. And what I'm going to do is
just put a position key frame for this
one for all of them. Come over here. Put
some other key frame like this. This
should be behind this layer like this.
And over here should be out. And I'm
going to use flow for this. Give it some
graph like this. The output will be
something like this. Over here I'm going
to put some opacity key frame for these
two. and turn off the the opacity and
give it some key frame like this. All
right. And over here I'm going to
exactly paste it for this one. But this
one should be a little bit after that.
If I right now get back to my
composition like the main composition,
you see that I have I just need to
remove this one. So also I have to turn
off this one. I have something like
this. But I have to move them a little
bit forward here. The opacity and stuff
should be comes faster. So I'm going to
put them a little bit back. So over here
I'm going to make a null object and
connect this one to this null object and
then this shape to this null object. But
because this one previously connected to
null one first of all I have to connect
this one to this null object and then
connect this null object to the main
null object that we're going to use in
it. Then connect this one to this null
object. I just want to change the color
for these two to make it much more
obvious that they're going to be same.
But then I'm going to move these two to
the top a little bit. All right. Put a
key frame about 65 65 exactly over here.
I have to make other object and connect
this one to the second object and make
something like this like a position key
frame and then go forward for five
frame. 1 2 3 4 5 and push it to the down
a little bit. But bring it over here.
Give it some script like the bounce
script. Have something like this up and
down. Over here I'm going to do some
morphing and stuff. coming to the
property of this shape and just turn off
this size uniform scale and right now I
can put some key frame for the size over
here and other key for the size over
here. So at the final stage I'm going to
make it something like this. Right? So
the thing is I have to give it same key
frame. I'm going to register some field
make the first black and put a key frame
for this one. Make it white but not
completely white. A little bit gray. It
should be something like this. But this
is kind of flat right now, right? So
what I'm going to do is just duplicate
this layer with Ctrl + D. Remove the
light. See? So I also can remove the
fill and change the fill color to
something like this. A little bit
darker. I can use this tool and put it
on a mask and do a mask like this.
If I invert the mask, hit the F from the
keyboard, give it some better, I can
have something like this. And for the
top, I'm going to use light sip.
I can going to move the airplane out of
the frame exactly from here. I'm going
to do a cut and then mat this layer to
the bottom one like to the main one over
here. So the airplane out of here
wouldn't be up here. I have to do the
cut exactly over here. So I can remat it
to the right layer. I have to turn back
and also have to put opacity for this
one. I'm going to put opacity over here.
So in here we don't have anything like
this. I have to give it same like graph.
So the shape will be something like
this. For this one I'm going to put some
rotation and position one and do a
position and rotation like this. So I
can give a rotation.
Maybe I can push it a little bit over
here. And right now I can give it some
exactly same motion. I think here we
don't need the airplane and the object
of that. I have to add the element.
So I make something like this over here.
And if I'm going to clarify it for you,
it's a shape like this. But I have to
give you some hint about the roundness
over here for the stroke that I made it.
If you search for the line cap, you see
that we have some option for the stroke,
which is a line cap and line join. That
if you put it on a round cap and on a
round join, you can see that we have
some round at the edge of this stroke.
And for the shapes, I just put some
flags over here and matt it to the layer
over here. I put all the layers after
the shading and a stuff cuz if I put
them below them, you see that we have
some side effect from the shading. So I
don't want to do that. All right. So
right now I need to parent all these
things that I made it just right now to
the main shape. And the main shape would
be this one, right? So I have to parrot
it out to here. So they're going to move
with this one. And also from here I
don't need them. Right. Give it some
position and go five frame forward and
pull them up a little bit. And again I'm
going to give it some bounce expression
but give it some offset about two or
three key frame. So you see that we have
something like this over here. I just
need to grab the airplane vector again.
I just want to scale it down a little
bit like this and do a position and
rotation for this one. Put it over here
at the top of the send. and then come a
little bit forward and push it over
here. And I can grab the pen tool and
give it some curve like this. If I need
I can move it a little bit downward to
be able to move it from here. So right
now we have a right movement for the
position. But if you see it's not
following along the path. We can click
right on our layer. Come into the
transform going into the auto orient and
click on this option and hit okay. So
right now if I just fix the rotation,
you see it's going to be exactly in the
path. I just need to give it some low
grass.
What we need is this shape. Right. So
I'm going to make this one and get back
again.
All right. So this is what I needed for
this part of the project. And what I'm
going to do is just selecting all the
layers and connect it to the background
to be able to move everything together.
Awesome. And also I'm going to map them
to the background again to be able to
control it better than I'll I'll let you
know what I'm doing this. So first of
all I'm going to make this exactly same
as the top shape. Okay. And also I have
to move the airplane shape to the top of
everything. So before this I don't need
any of these layers. I can remove all of
them. So from here I can start the
movement. For the first things I'm going
to turn off the uniform scale of the
size and do a key frame for it. Maybe
come a little bit forward like this.
Over here it should be zero and then it
should be pops up. I can do a key frame
about 2000
or maybe 0. At the first it should be
really really fast. Maybe should be
closer. Okay. And for the shape what I'm
going to do is just finding the right
layer uh which is going to be this one.
Yeah. I can move everything with this.
So put a similar key frame for the
position like coming over here put other
position key frame and again go five
frame forward like 1 2 3 4 five and put
other key frame. I'm going to move this
to the top make a similar movement and
give it a script like a bounce script be
able to make something like this but
because we have lots of bounce that we
don't need it over here we can make the
distance less make it like this.
For the final step, I'm going to come
into the right place like over here.
Give it a gosh blur with amount of 12.
And I also need to turn off this
checkbox and put a key frame for this
one. And go forward for 15 frame and put
other key frame for the blness. And
coming into the first key frame, make
this zero. So right now we have some
blurriness. But the things that I'm
going to do right now is just copy this
gshian blur coming into the right spot
and paste it to all the layers on the
ball. So you can see that this one will
be blur
over here. I'm going to put a key frame
like this and move them to the bottom
and put them out of the frame. Also I'm
going to do this over here like same key
frame for the position and pull it down.
I'm going to select this and give it
some graph. So to be honest, I forgot to
change the background over here and I
just noticed it. So, what I'm going to
do over here is finding this layer,
which is the background, and give it a
fill. It's kind of pretty easy. Make
this white, but not this way. To be
honest, it should be this way. Give it a
white background. And exactly over here.
Then, it's going to come over here.
Going to give it a key frame and make it
like this. Let me bring the reference
back. Be able to get a reference from
it. If I hit the Y, I can see the key
frame. I can delete this one and bring
this back to if I give it a key frame
like this and move it to the right spot
and over here again it's supposed to get
back. So I just copy paste the key frame
and come over here and time revert it.
Maybe push it back a little bit. I also
need to make a transition and it's also
pretty easy. So I'm going to put an
adjustment layer. Give it a deep go. You
can find a link in description again.
Maybe this one should be 300 and this
one should be about 0.7 or maybe one
would be good. And a key frame like this
and over here it should be zero. And the
key frame would be something like this
like the graph of it. Or maybe what I'm
going to do is just remove this one.
Make this white because it's already
white. I just need to move the fill.
And I also need to cut the text over
here.
I'm going to give it a deep glow effect
and maybe this one will be 300. This one
will be 0.3. That would be awesome. I
can copy paste this one for all of them.
And for the final touch, what I'm going
to do is just coming into the asset,
grab this white dot, go into the right
place. Scale it up a little bit. Put
this on screen. Remove the black
background. Cut it from here. First of
all, I need to turn down the opacity a
little bit. You see the speed of these
will be so fast. I can bring up the
opacity a little bit. Like the dots are
so fast. So what I'm going to do is just
cut it out like this. Pick compent. Do a
Ctrl Alt T. And then if I move the key
frame over here, I can change the speed.
I make the speed slower. So I'm going to
have something like this with a slower
speed. And again, I'm going to put it on
screen and solo it.
And over here I can cut it out. Like
this is going to be awesome. So thank
you so much for watching this video till
the end. I hope you enjoy it and it can
be useful to you. Don't forget to like
and subscribe because it's kind of huge
support from me. And also if you want me
to recreate some other project, you just
need to join the Discord channel and put
your videos into the showcase channel.
And just don't forget to label it down
with a recreate tag to make me able to
understand that you want me to recreate
this project for you. And I'm gonna go
through all of them 100%.
