[Music]
Hey there,
>> welcome Yang Skywalker.
>> Are you using Google Gemini CLI or code
assistant tool and you want to add MCP
servers to it? Well, I'm going to show
you how right now. Let's get into it.
[Music]
All right, we're going to get started by
using Google Gemini in the CLI command
line interface. I'm in my project here.
you get in your project. I'm going to
assume you're already signed into your
Google account that has access to Gemini
and you can run Gemini MCP and that
gives you an idea of what you need to do
in order to get started with adding an
MCP server. So, the one that I'm going
to be adding is the sneak MCP server for
doing security scans. And the way I can
add that for this is a number of
different ways, but the one way I'm
going to go with it is Gemini MCP add.
I'm going to give it a name of sneak and
then I'm going to pass in the command
and argument. So the main command here
is I'm going to leverage npx that I have
already set up which is the same way
that I installed Gemini and then I'm
going to pass in the proper arguments
for my MCP server. So in this case it's
hyphen y it's sneak at latest. So we use
the latest version of the sneak cli.
We're going to use the mcp command in
that. Then we're going to pass in some
arguments. This is again specific to
this mcp server tool. I'm going to tell
it the transport protocol is stdiodio
standard input output. And we're going
to hit enter. And we're going to give
that a second and we can see that it was
indeed added. So now if I run gemini mcp
list, we should see sneak listed on
there and that it is connected. Now if
there were any issues, maybe you got
your arguments incorrect or wrong. Let
me show you an example of what that
looks like if things are not working
correctly. So you understand. So if I
added this in this way
and I'll use the other protocol like SS
SS that I'm not using right now and I
hit enter on that we can see it got
added. But if we go and run Gemini MCP
list, we'll see that the sneak 2 one,
the one that I intentionally got wrong
says disconnected. So keep an eye out
for that. MCP list, Gemini MCP list is
the command you want to use after you
add it to verify that it was added
successfully. All right. So what if you
did add that unsuccessfully? It's not
working. How do you remove that broken
one and then figure out how to fix to
the next one? Well, you're going to do
Gemini MCP remove and then you just pass
in the name that you had used when you
created it or added it. Okay, so that
should be removed now. So, if I run
Gemini MCP list, we can see it's just
the one that is working that's there
now. So, there you go. That's how you
add and remove MCP servers and make sure
that they are working as expected and
connected. Now, one thing to note with
this is that I set up this MCP server
using Gemini in the current project
folder that I'm working off of. So, in
this case, it's this dev Discord
Wordlebot. And what that results in, if
I show you the folder here, is there's a
new.jemini folder. And in there results
in a settings.json file which has the
contents that look like this. So if you
wanted to instead of using the CLI, you
can manually create a Gemini folder in
the root directory of your project, add
a settings JSON file and then add in the
proper information into this JSON file
using the MCP servers object there, JSON
object following this standard here like
this. Now the reason I call this out is
that this is isolated to this project.
So this MCP server that I've set up for
Gemini to use and leverage is only going
to be available in this project. So if I
go to another project, it won't be
available. So if you want to actually
have this available across projects, you
need to set it at the root directory of
your user account for the operating
system you're working on. Well, what
does that mean? Let me show you. So for
me, I'm working on Windows using Git
Bash. So your experience may be slightly
different from me if you're on a
different operating system or using a
different shell on Windows. The way you
can double check whether you have a
configuration settings file for Gemini
at your root user account more globally
is by running ls tilda.jemini.
You're going to search for Gemini and
you're going to search for the settings
JSON file, right? And that is indeed
there. I know I could see the full path
now that that is there. And I can open
that settings JSON file and add in that
MCP server configuration. In fact, I
could copy and paste this one that's
specific to and local to this project. I
can copy and paste this one into that
settings JSON file for the root global
user so that it gets applied and
available to other projects that I'm
working on on this machine. All right,
with that out of the way, now it's time
for us to use Gemini with our MCP server
that we just set up. If you are using
Gemini CLI within Visual Studio Code, it
will give you this prompt to ask if you
want to connect VS Code Editor to Gemini
CLI. In this case, just for now, I'm
going to say no. And now we can start
using Gemini right here. So I'm going to
ask it to please tell me about any
vulnerabilities
in my open source oo source dependencies
for this this project. Now what I expect
to happen is it's going to analyze the
contents of the project directory in
this Discord whlebot and then trigger it
to use that MCP server from sneak that
we have here. And that's what it's doing
now. It's asking for permission to use
the sneak mcp tool in particular the
sneak sky scan command. So I'm going to
say yes. It's telling me it's not
trusted yet. So it's going to run. Now
this is part of this specific to my MCP
server that I'm using here. So it's
going to run the sneak trust command
which in this case requires me to open
up my browser while I'm signed into my
account for sneak. So I'm going to do
that really quick and come back here in
just a second. Here's an example of
Here's an example of what you would see
in your browser that would pop up here.
You click on trust path and then you can
go back to the command line and continue
from there. All right, I trusted that
folder now to be used with Sneak and
then it's going to run the next tool,
the SCA scan now. All right, so Gemini
finished using that MCP server from
Sneak uh running the SCA tool to scan my
open source dependencies, found some
vulnerabilities that are in there, and
then Gemini analyzed that and told me
that it found two vulnerabilities. One
is high severity and the other is low
severity. The recommended fix for both
is to upgrade my dependency of
discord.js to version 14.20.0.
And then it's asking if I want to have
Gemini attempt to do the fix for me by
upgrading it. So, I can go ahead and do
that and move forward. But I actually
don't want to do that just yet because
the next step from here is I want to
show you how you can leverage MCP
servers in Google's code assist
extension in Visual Studio Code. All
right. So, to get started using the
Google Code Assist extension in Visual
Studio Code, you need to install that in
there. You can open up the extensions
marketplace view in VS Code and then
search for Gemini and you'll find this
one, Gemini Code Assist. And you'll have
an install option here like I do. It's
telling me to restart to get an update
and extension. So, I'm going to do that
really quick. Looks like that's all set
to go. So, now once that's installed,
you'll see a little icon like this,
which is the Gemini code assist right
there. You can click on that. And in
here, I'm already signed in, but it'll
prompt you to sign in with your account
like that as well. Now, one caveat to
use MCP servers with Gemini code
assistant in this instance is you need
to be using the insiders build of the
extension. That way you can leverage
this agent mode that you can see here.
You by default will likely not have that
available to you and therefore it won't
leverage any MCP servers that you might
set up for it. So to get that I'm going
to show you right now. You need to go to
settings. You can do that by going into
VS Code settings by pressing control or
command comma on Mac OS. And you're
going to search for Gemini update
channel in there. And what you want to
do is look for this one right here. And
you want to click this dropown. It'll be
on default by default. You're going to
switch to the insiders option. And then
what that's going to do is it's going to
let you know that in the background,
it's going to install the updated
version for that insiders build of the
extension and then probably prompt you
to restart your extensions in Visual
Studio Code. Then once that's all done,
if you open up the Gemini code assist
extension here, you should see this
agent toggle button available to you.
You're going to click that on and then
you're ready to go. Now, what's nice
about this is it will automatically
leverage this Gemini settings JSON
configuration that we have here because
we're working within this project
folder. So, Gemini in agent mode will
leverage our MCP configuration via that
settings configuration that we've set up
from the CLI earlier. If you didn't do
that in the CLI, you would have to
manually come in and add that like we
said before in this way for your MCP
server that you're trying to add. All
right, I gave Gemini Code Assist
extension the same prompt that we did in
the CLI. And we can see it's going
through very similar steps here, just in
a nice more visually pleasing way via
the extension here. So, we can see that
it can first check to see if we are
authenticated with Sneak. I'm going to
let it go ahead and do that. All right.
So, it came to the same conclusion that
the CLI version did in that we need to
upgrade Discord.js to version 14.20.0
zero and it's requesting to make edit
changes to my package JSON file so that
we use that version for this project. So
I'm going to click accept. Then I'm
going to run install and then in this
case it upgraded to the newer version of
14.21.0.
All right. So what I'm going to do now
is let's verify that we no longer have
those vulnerabilities. So I'm going to
ask it to double check the
vulnerabilities again to be sure of
that. And there we have it. Great news.
The scan confirms that all open source
dependency vulnerabilities have now been
resolved. So there you have it. That's
how you get set up with MCP servers in
Gemini. whether you're using the CLI or
the code assistant extension for your
IDE. If you're curious about Sneak and
the MCP server capabilities of it, check
out the link in the description below.
That does it for this video. If you got
value out of it, be sure to like it down
below and share with somebody who could
put it to use. And if you made it this
far, subscribe to the channel so you
don't miss out on upcoming videos.
Thanks for watching and happy safe
coding, everyone.
[Music]
