Well, James Clark of Blue AL, the senior
managing director and global head of
institutional capital, welcome to
Capital Decanted.
>> Thanks, John. Pleasure to be here. Keen
follower, longtime listener.
>> Well, you're very kind, even though if
you lie, well, but uh we're grateful to
have you on board. I feel like this is
long overdue. we have um a lot of close
shared uh friends. So, good to finally
be able to spend some time with you on a
topic that actually you have taught me
about um in some of your previous
interviews. So, we'll get to that in a
bit, but I'm keen to to kind of pick
your brain on total portfolio approach.
Um so, I'd like to start a little bit
with uh kind of your journey on this. We
have spent a lot of time at Kaya talking
about our journey, an asset owner's
journey on this, but I I I'd love for
you to tell us a little bit about when
was the first time TPA or even different
vernacular that eventually turned in,
grew into TPA, kind of crossed your
radar, and how have those conversations
with LPS and other GPS developed since
that time?
>> Yeah, look, by hook or by crook, I've
been at this for 30 years. Um, I started
off pretty much in the long only world
in uh long only equity and and and fixed
income. And you know what's really
interesting when you actually take a
step back to look at asset allocations.
When I first started doing this, it was
all around the 6040 model. 60% equities,
40% bonds. Um, and then pretty much on
the very early stages of my career, you
had the tech wreck of April 14, 2000, I
believe it was, and equity markets over
20201 and 2002. The S&P was negative the
entire time. So all of a sudden, you had
these very large institutional investors
that were shackled to very poor returns
from 60% of their portfolio. And so the
nomenclature of alternatives started to
make its way in. I mean this is an
astounding fact. If you actually looked
at the S&P 500 over the last h 100red
years, the annualized return is 10%.
If you asked how many times in a
calendar year did it fall between 8 and
12%. So you'd be shocked. I'm not going
to put you on the spot here. It's six.
So that shows the volatility of it. And
what they were looking for was a more
consistent way to hit their actual rates
of return. Obviously, the funding ratios
had been crippled by these. You'd had
some spectacular corporate scandals and
failures, predominantly Enron or
Worldcom. So, it moved to alternatives.
And I think that the TPA discussion
started to make its way when you saw all
these sovereign wealth funds of
significant scale start to pop up in the
mid part of the 2000s. There was
obviously the Australia's future fund
and there was a number of other Middle
Eastern institutions and so on and so
forth that grew up and I think that what
happened was everybody just felt like a
little bit constrained around strategic
asset allocation. They felt that they
had to operate within these bands and
you have a situation where you have
what's called the denominator effect
right now which is where equities sell
off and now all of a sudden through no
rebalancing you're overallocated to
private markets and you can't put any
more capital to work until you rebalance
in the public equity space. So the t the
the TPA approach has been really sort of
to demystify
um asset class buckets and think about
things more holist holistically at the
total portfolio level and that seems to
be gathering momentum and in fact this
week um there was a lot of press around
the California public employees
retirement system who's coincidentally
their CIO Steve Gilmore came from New
Zealand's uh superanuation fund where he
basically doubled assets in a very short
space of time and I would say in large
part to using this model.
>> So James that's that's very helpful. So
you you kind of picked up on some of
these crucible moments where LPS were
starting to say, is this really the
right approach for right now? And then
of course things stabilize and you kind
of forget this is human nature, right?
But they've been searching at times for
this different mousetrap to avoid some
of these shackles or constraints. Those
are my words, not yours. Why is there
this fever pitch? I mean Kai's feeling
it simply because we've done a lot of
research work on it. Um, why is this
fever pitch on the LP side of all
flavors, sizes, by the way, around the
world? And yet, it seems to me very few
GPS are talking about it. If this is
truly going to kind of take shape,
there's going to be massive implications
for the whole ecosystem. And yet, GPS
don't seem to be on top of this.
>> Yeah, I I think it's a really good
observation. I think GPS aren't on top
of it because GPS don't want to be on
top of it. They like the old model. The
model is hey you have a subset of asset
allocations like if you look at Kalpers
essentially what they're doing is taking
11 different asset classes and
collapsing them all into one total port
portfolio approach but GPS like the
narrative of hey we have this asset
allocation we've got to go and fill it
and oh by the way we happen to be one of
those managers that you could work with
and fill in it. Very few GPS ever take
the time to acknowledge what their
commitment does to the total portfolio.
So I'll give you an example. We win a
billion dollar mandate or a we're
awarded a billion dollar mandate. That
is a phenomenal achievement for us and
we're not dismissing that. But very few
GPS in a billion dollar mandate in a
$300 billion plan don't pay attention to
the other $299 billion. Now, if you
think about it in your own investments,
how many times do you think about
thinking about a 30 basis point
consideration? Not a lot, right? I know
I I know I don't. Maybe I should do it
more. But the manager, one of the things
we always ask when we go in for the
first times is what is our role and how
do we complement the rest of the
program? The TPA approach, the total
portfolio approach is what does the
entire organism do? not what does the
arm or the leg or the nose do. It's what
does the entire body of work represent
and what is my role in doing that. And
I've talked about this a little bit, but
I think the alternative industry is
undergoing a huge amount of having to
grow up right now. I think in the past
you had a period of low interest rates.
People were underallocated to
alternatives and managers got in this
very comfortable situation where it was
easy to generate strong returns because
money was free essentially and there was
a
demand a very strong demand for their
product to fill these allocation
buckets. So the narrative was we're in
market with a fund. Thank you for the
money. We'll see you when we're in
market with the next one. And it the the
work that had to go into that the client
engagement was very much in the hands of
the the manager. We'd have to do as
little work as possible and we get to
consistently get these allocations. Oh,
what? We raised a $2 billion fund. The
next one's four. The next one's eight.
The next one's 10. Well, things have
changed. that 40 mph tail tailwind is
now in everybody's face. And I I was
speaking with a with a uh CIO the other
day and he said, you know, these
managers are almost show showing up like
people off coming off a sugar high like
what what do you mean I'm not getting as
much money as I got in the past? What do
you mean you don't have capacity to put
capital into my fund? Things like that.
And and I think that the the the total
portfolio approach model is going to
have to reshape how people like us think
about how they engage the client, right?
And they're going to have to spend a lot
more time understanding the broader
portfolio than they are understanding
just the the the silo of which they're
in. Not to mention just understanding
themselves. So there are many
considerations that need to go into that
dialogue. And if that dialogue doesn't
change, they're going to get lost in the
shuffle. Thankfully, myself and many of
us come from the public world, as I
explained to you in the past, where at
any moment, any single moment, a client
could call you up because your assets
were held publicly, and say, "For
whatever reason, we're pulling the
mandate and that could be gone within a
day. A billion dollar account, sell it
out there in the market, they use the
capital, they use the proceeds, and go
somewhere else." So you were attuned to
making sure that you were in front of
the clients 24/7. But when you have
private market portfolios, closedend
funds, that's not a concern because you
say, "Oh, we'll deliver you a return
over, you know, investment periods,
three years, four year extension, blah
blah blah, and we'll come and see you
later on." The threat of redemption
isn't there. But that's changed. And if
you're not in a partnership with the
client,
I think you're going to get found out.
And so GPS do need to get alive to this
now.
>> So, so I I want to press you a bit more
on this mindset shift, this partnership
model. And actually it um I think I
shared this with you. I was on a run I
think in Europe and you stopped me in my
tracks with a quote you had on our buddy
Ted Sides podcast, your second favorite
podcast, Capital Allocators. Right.
Right. So I'm going to quote you.
>> Good. I I like rewatchables by
>> Okay, there you go. We love Ted. We love
Ted. Yeah. Um, but I'm going to quote
you to yourself and then I want you to
tell me more about this. Um, but you
said, quote, "The moment you put a
firm's interest ahead of your of the
client, you're done. Portfolio fit is
much more important than how great a
strategy claims to be." When you're
following a TPA approach, the strategy
decision might be the third derivative
from choice. After funding ratio, actual
rate of return target, what does the
portfolio look like? You need to be in
active listening mode to truly
understand the investment zeitgeist.
That was impressive, James. Zeitgeist of
the organization. Tell me what you meant
by that.
>> I need to understand what is what's the
definition of
>> That's a Whoever said that's a smart
dude.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, um, look,
I I the the that quote is the most
important thing. I mean, we always say
around here, um, in fact, it was my COO,
Doug, CEO, Doug Ostrov, who said he
always says to the clients, what's
important to you is important to us. And
I think a lot of managers dismiss
certain things. Well, that's not
important. I don't really care what they
think. This is what I think. Um, it's
not what you think. Um, when I talk to
our team here and we have 130 people and
we cover the entire world, we're
essentially dealing with about 4,000
different situations.
Each client is very different. What
their asset allocation is, what their
how their board decisions are made, who
their asset consultant is, who are their
members, what is the age of those
members. There's an Australian
superanuation fund set up for
hospitality workers. I was a member at
it. I used to be a waiter right back in
the day in the early 90s when
superanuation first kicked in. And I
used to get this paycheck and it wasn't
a lot. And it would say 8% has gone to
this fund and I'd be like I'd be 19 and
be I can't touch this money till I'm 65.
That's ridiculous. But the makeup of
that organization means that it can do
very different things because it's got a
younger membership. So we always say
here we don't sell product, we position
partnerships. And I'll be honest with
you, there are times where I've been to
certain organizations and they've told
me their list of credit managers or how
they think about real estate and I've
said to them, you know what, we're not a
fit right now. We don't we don't fit in.
Um there will be a time and maybe one of
these managers will underperform or
maybe you'll get sick of them. But the
most important thing I find in any first
meeting or any first engagement is
trying to understand what they are
trying to achieve. And if you boil it
down into the true essence of what it
is, it's how do you help me solve a
problem and how do you make me look good
doing that? You don't find that out if
you show up. And and thankfully I I
don't have a pitch book here in front of
me about blueout products and I'm not
about to sit here and bring it out
because we don't sell products. We
position partnerships. But this is
actually
well multistrati credit partnership for
a client, right? It's got nothing to do
with a fund. And but if I sat there and
put this on the table and just walked
through it for 45 minutes straight or an
hour and didn't ask one question,
I am never going to learn anything. And
so this actual conversation is a
response to about 20 different meetings.
I need to blank out their name, but it's
about 20 different meetings that we've
had with them to get to the point where
like we know where you're going and we
have something here that could fit. Um,
but when managers start to think about,
and I and I've said this before, we're a
publicly owned, we're a public company.
Um, we trade on the stock exchange. I
don't care about the share price. It
doesn't matter to me. What matters to me
at the end of the day is doing the right
thing by the client. And if we're doing
all the right things, if we're in the
process, that is going to take care of
itself. That we will win in the long
term. And I have every reason to think
we are. I see it here. I'm in it every
day. We've had a phenomenal year across
the board in our investments and in the
assets that we've um been uh fortunate
to attain. But if you go into these
meetings with, I need something at the
end of this and damn the torpedoes, it's
going to happen. Hella high water, I'm
going to get it. You miss everything.
And again, we're dealing with very, very
different audiences in different
regions. And within those regions, a
teachers plan is very different than a
foundation and endowment. It's very
different than a health care plan.
Define contribution, define benefit,
TPA, SIAA model. If all you're doing is
going in there with 50 cents in the
jukebox and hitting play and singing
summer at 69 and they don't like Brian
Adams, I mean, who does? But it although
that was a good song. I I'll I'll give
I'll give you that. But if then then
you're not playing to the audience and
the audience changes every night.
Well, you offend one of Canada's best
and uh and you're in trouble there with
>> I do like that song. I I
>> Okay. Um
>> although it was better when the Foo
Fighters sung it. I will say if you ever
find that on YouTube, it's not a bad
version
>> cover. Um I think I think this whole uh
pathway from uh beauty contests to fill
a gap in the portfolio right where
you're just competing against other
asset class strategies of whatever 2 or
3% happens to be open in the portfolio
to long-term solutions provider where
you're listening and trying to help them
solve problems holding their hand
figuratively speaking is a is a really
good segue to a definitional question I
wanted to ask you because I think
because of the Kalpers news because of
this uh this acceleration of adoption
and interest in the press. I think
there's a couple extremes getting this
way wrong. One is, you know, this is
just a an incremental evolution of the
endowment model or SAA and frankly
there's nothing new here, nothing to see
here. The other extreme um is that it
doesn't borrow on any of that and uh
it's it's it's something that's
completely unrelated to to uh LPGP
alignment. And the way I've thought
about this is um is that SAA is an
investment model and whether it's
endowment or the Canadian version or
maybe the the US pension fund version,
they're all variations of an investment
model that you plug in. I think TPA is
more of a fund model because it speaks
to purpose of the fund. It talks much
more about governance and culture. It's
broader than how you pick strategies and
fill up 100% of your portfolio. Do you
agree with that assessment and why or
why not?
>> Yeah, I do. I mean, I've got you, look,
this is the presentation. This is the
KPA's presentation at their last board
meeting. It was yesterday, November
November. Oh, sorry. This was the one LA
this time last year, November 18, 2024.
And it talks a lot about the actual
considerations of how to implement this.
It talks about what the role of this is
doing. is an investment framework and
it's all orientated around the actual
rate of return and saying hey if we peg
ourselves to these asset classes like if
you look at what's happened since 2020
you had the pandemic
interest rates have gone up there's been
a lot more volatility in the markets um
that volatility in
public equity space has purely been
predicated on seven stocks Right? The
only free lunch that any institution can
get is diversification.
And when you're looking at the S&P last
year and you're saying, "Oh man, we
nailed it. It was up 23%."
Well, if you took out the S&P MAG 7, it
was only up 9%. So,
the opportunity to be more nimble, the
opportunity to say, "Hey, there are
other areas there on a risk adjusted
basis." I I it looks from here that the
risk budget that they're taking across
the entire portfolio is about 400 basis
points. They're continually adapting and
being thoughtful about what are the
other areas in the market that we can
tap into. And look, it's not going to be
embraced by everybody, right? That that
I think that's one thing that needs to
be understood. Many of these defined
benefit plans in the United States have
been around, you know, since the Orisa
Act of 1974,
right? since Richard Nixon was president
been around a long time to suddenly flip
the processes in the right way uh for
all of them. But really the framework
here is understanding the portfolio at
the highest level of what is the
objective and that asset classes aren't
necessarily struggling against each
other for attention devoid of what the
ultimate return objective is of the
organization. So yes, it is an
investment platform.
>> Yeah. Uh so James, let's get let's get a
bit crunchier. Circling back to kind of
the the why aren't GPS paying more
attention? Why aren't they adapting a
bit more? You know, do they really grasp
this? Do they like it? Um if you're
giving advice, I mean, first of all,
looking inward at Blue, how are you
thinking about adopting or adapting or
evolving to meet this changing need? I
think it's in your DNA as you described,
but I suspect there's even more
evolution that needs to be done in the
way you engage with perspective and and
uh and current LPS. But what advice
would you give to those that are just
kind of trying to understand GPS that is
understand this move to TPA when it
comes to alignment of interest and
products and service model?
>> Yeah, look, you raised a really good
point. You you said it's ingrained in
our DNA. I mean, one thing I want to say
is we don't have all the right answers
and we're continually learning. And I'll
give you an interesting anecdote and
I'll get to your question. Last week, I
I put out these white papers called from
the front line and they've got a bit of
a following and I talked about um I used
the word deployment,
right? I said deploying capital. and a
CEO, a very well- reggarded one from one
of the big Australian superanuation
funds wrote me and said, "I loved the
piece going forward. Don't use the word
deploy. It sounds like asset gathering.
Use the word invest. It's smarter." So,
you are always learning. And I took that
note and I sent it around the firm to
everybody who who is in front of clients
all the way up to the CEOs and said,
"This is great feedback. This is
important. Now maybe there's a bunch of
other firms out there that say we've
never used the word deploy in our lives.
What is blue thinking by using that
word? I don't know. I haven't seen it.
I've heard a lot at conferences. But
that was you are always learning. And I
think for any organization, a new GP
that's coming to market, I think that or
or is is trying to get evolve itself
into a new model with its clients. The
first thing is make sure you recognize
that every single one of them is
different.
Two, make sure you understand the
investment zeitgeist. How decisions how
decisions are made. What's the dynamic
between the CIO and the board? How much
authority does the board have on
investments? the the Kalpers's uh ALM
study and the move towards uh TPA is
very much giving staff the discretion
which is a good thing because they live
and breathe this 24/7.
Um but it's making sure that when you go
into these meetings you it's like I want
this. No, it's not what you want. It's
what can you deliver? And if you come at
it from the mindset and you're not
talking the whole time and you're truly
understanding where they're trying to go
and also having humility to sometimes
say that doesn't work for us. Um or
sorry, our strategy doesn't fit right
now.
We'd love to come back in six months, 12
months, and see where you're at. But in
my life, and I've done this, and maybe
I'm probably the worst fundraising
person in the history of the business,
but if I look on any time we brought a
client on, it's always been somewhere
between 24 to 36 months. Like the good
one, like the biggest opportunities.
Occasionally you can use the word I get
lucky but really if you want to build a
partnership like anything a marriage a
friendship or whatever what's the one
quotient that is the most important
thing it's time
and time doesn't happen over a 60-minute
meeting and so if you are doing this the
willingness to realize like I'm going to
have probably seven or eight engagements
before anything of interest is really
going to materialize and Not many have
people have the patience for that. They
don't. They want it to happen right now.
Um, but when you have a big team like we
do, when you have the opportunity to
canvas a lot of people, you don't have
to be relying on one or two things to
hopefully work out. You get to build
those partnerships over a long period of
time. And some of my best relationships
that I go back with to when I was a kid
in Australia and first started out on
the business, they haven't invested with
us. And maybe they never will. But the
good news is every time I call them,
they're willing to talk to me. They
won't talk to me if every time I call
them I'm willing I'm going to ask for
something.
You know, it's funny your your example
with deploy uh you know, just is a good
reminder that yes, behavior needs to
change, but even our language logos
language matters. What you say reflects
who you are and how you act. And so, I
think that's a really good reminder. I
hadn't thought through that, so I
appreciate that. Maybe just to press
>> I don't like the word LP and GP. I
actually hate them, too. That to me
sounds like a contract,
>> right? It sounds that's an investment
agreement
>> to me. It's partner manager, partner
client.
>> Okay. Well, there you go. Yeah, I think
there's a lot of rewiring we need to do
from language down through how we act.
Let me just press you on a couple more
of those kind of behaviors or
adjustments. So, um, so benchmarking SAA
is built on this kind of slavery to
benchmarking at asset classes. At
multi-asset classes, you got three or
four at the portfolio level. and uh
you're you're just bound by these
bogeies that you're constantly facing
and this idea of constructing a
portfolio that meets the funding purpose
of the corpus is a very different
dynamic. So that's one and then the
other one is an issue of scaling. So in
the old days in SAA world you know blue
has a new direct lending fund or a new
middle market buyout fund. You can scale
that really easily. you shop it around
and who wants to plug in and you scale
it really well and what you're talking
about in this partnership and active
listening and solutions business by its
very nature is more customtailored
bespoke. So maybe talk a little bit
about scalability in the new world and
benchmarking.
There was an interesting article that
came out uh in the financial times a
couple of weeks ago. was from a private
equity manager was quoted in it and that
there are 15,000 private market funds
out there and only 5,000 raised capital
right this year fundraising in private
markets in the ones that we focus on are
down 20%. I'm happy to report we're up a
considerable amount. But again, those
are conversations that by the way
started taking place in 2019, 2020,
2021.
Um I think that the structure of how
people access alternatives is changing
rapidly. Um you now have the adoption of
evergreen strategies. Um people want to
maintain their asset allocation to a
certain asset class. Certain asset
classes like direct lending where we
have a very big platform have morphed
from being a tactical asset allocation
meaning shortterm we get a dislocation
in spreads we come into the fund they
contract we made money and maybe the
client's like that's it that opportunity
is over and gone but over time it's
proven itself as a sustainable
investment and has now morphed into
being a strategic asset allocation uh
for the long term. Um,
what that has meant though is that the
client can't be beholdened to when
you're in market or out of market
because if they're trying to maintain
that exposure and you don't happen to be
around or the other great managers that
they've selected because they're not
just going to do you have are not
around, they're going to start
allocating to people that are second and
third tier and all of a sudden they're
going to have 30 line items. The one
thing that I hear is that we are trying
to rationalize the number of
relationships bigger line item bigger
line items with fewer partners. Okay.
And that means bringing solutions to
people that are in SMA form um fund of
one form evergreen structures where they
can have the ability to increase that
allocation and maybe down the road if
they're dissatisfied or they feel like
they need to push money to another area
of the market, they can sell out of
those, get an off-ramp and and deploy
that capital differently.
But it has changed the dynamic a lot and
I think with the other thing is that a
manager has to bring you can't be a jack
of all trades and master or none but
where we specialize at blue owl is in
areas where the demand of capital out
there by the privates market community
is really high and the number of
managers that have the ability to speak
to it is very very low and those are
areas where we prosecute it whether it's
GP states whether it's direct lending
whether it's triple net leash real
estate and now into uh the data center
space and that's where we are that's
where we gravitate and where we
orientate ourselves. Um
but a manager wants to be able to bring
those things to a client and a client
wants to say I know that they do those
things really well. I know that I can do
a number of them of those things really
well with them. Oh, and by the way, I
don't have the time to take 15,000 phone
calls a year. Even if you did that, you
you you actually wouldn't have the time.
So, I think that the industry is scaling
to the bigger players. And I think the
bigger I think scale beget scale. And I
think the bigger allocators are wanting
to be around in into those ecosystems
where they can get preferential terms,
they can get preferential structures and
they can have a say in how that mandate
is customized bespoke for them.
So I want to end with one final
question. I think you've touched on bits
and pieces of this, but I'm going to
give you a chance to have another
zeitgeist mic drop moment here, James.
Um, but let's just say uh, you know, you
go to sleep in a cryo chamber for five
years and you wake up and and and you
can't choose blue owl, but just imagine
yourself, you wake up in a GP that has
had done a particularly good job of
adapting to TPA. What is kind of the
biggest change in their operational
uh, activity that you you would notice?
Well, I'm clutching for a thesaurus here
to hopefully come up with another word
that may may uh you may gravitate to,
but I I haven't I've left it at home.
Um, look, I think it's really three
things. I think it's scale,
customization, and transparency. You
know, if you actually, and by
transparency, I mean a number of
different things. Um, you know, a quote
that was given to me recently is is good
news is bad news told early. And I think
it's incumbent on all of us to make sure
that look, we work in investments.
Investments aren't always going to work
out. Um, we need to make sure that we're
constantly
availing to our clients exactly what's
going on in their portfolios. But I do
think that the scale is important. Um,
you can only customize if you have
scale. a new manager coming out to
market right now. And I've said this
before and I know that people here don't
like it, but if our rock, which was the
precursor to Blue O direct lending
platform, had come to market today,
there would be no reason for us to
exist. I mean, I couldn't think of
anything more difficult than going out
there right now and saying, "Hey, we're
looking to raise a $5 billion firsttime
fund."
If you are big and you're fortunate to
be big, then you can bring in all these
other attributes, right? You can bring
in the great client service. A lot of
people spend way too much time talking
about the money they don't have rather
than the money they have. It is so
important that when you are fortunate to
work with
these institutional clients that you
treat them just the way if not better
than you treated them when they didn't
have money with you. So scale allows you
to do that. Scale allows you to avail
the portfolio and investment teams to
them on a more frequent basis because
you have larger teams.
Customization
critical. Again, we're dealing with
4,000 different situations and what
works for somebody. Someone may come to
you and say, "Hey, we love the data
center trade. We're not jinned up on
North America. Is there something you
could do for us in Asia Pack?" Right?
And we've done deals in Asia Pac in our
in our data center business. And so, you
want to be able to bring those things.
And at least you want to be able to have
that dialogue. And you can't do that if
you're on one-dimensional.
you just can't. Um, and the f the last
thing, as I said, is transparency. It's
communication, addressing concerns
quickly. I always say when things when
when you have a challenging time, we've
had a bit of a challenging week this
week. Um, it's the the important thing
is not to go quiet.
The important thing is to actually turn
the volume up.
>> Well, I think those are very wise words.
Uh James, you've got a a fresh and fun
way of capturing all of this. Uh I'm so
glad that you joined us on Capital
Decanted. Um thanks so much for being
here. That was a really helpful some
really helpful guidance, particularly on
the GP evolution.
>> My pleasure, John, and I appreciate
everything you're doing for Kay and it
it seems to be an organization that
continues to blossom and grow. So
congratulations.
>> I appreciate that. We're working hard.
So thanks James for joining and
Capitalers, thanks as always for joining
this episode.
