[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to NBA Ask
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with senior vice president of lender
solutions Donna Yurgo of Proctor Loano
Protector for part three of our ongoing
series. This one on customer service. As
many of you know, mortgage servicing is
complex and there are times when a
borrower will need to interact with
their mortgage serer or their vendor
partners. Donna is here to talk a bit
about how to improve the overall
customer service experience. Donna,
thank you for joining us today.
>> Thank you very much. It's a privilege to
be here with you today to talk about
customer service and borrow work here.
>> Likewise. So, let's get started with a
simple question, but one that may have
different but many similar answers to
you. How do you define customer service?
>> You know, that's a very interesting
question because it's no different than
any other call center. A homeowner is
calling in or a consumer is calling in
and they have an issue. So, they want it
resolved timely, efficiently,
effectively, and usually on the first
call, right? The only difference that I
see in the mortgage banking industry is
usually the homeowner is calling because
they have a problem. They have an issue
with their account. Sometimes they know
what the issue is, other times they do
not. So, we have to make sure that we
can handle and receive all of the
customer inquiries through all of the
channels. It's not just basically a call
center, them calling up and expecting to
talk to a representative. A lot of our
consumers want to not even have to pick
up the phone. So, you have to make sure
your technology is available to handle
all these types of channels. So, I guess
the best way to sum this up is customer
service can be a lot of things.
Information available, resolving an
issue for the homeowner in the channel
that they want.
>> Don, I think that's a very good 360
overview there. So, how does Proctor
Loan Protector view the customer service
experience?
>> Uh, yes. You know, Proctor Loan
Protector is an extension of our clients
and our clients are financial
institutions and mortgage servicesvicing
organizations.
So basically we are an extension of
them. They define the customer
experience they want their borrowers to
have. And though we all know we all want
the same thing for all our borrowers,
sometimes some of our clients tweak it a
bit. So, we need to be flexible and
nimble to be able to handle that. And
like I stated before, we have to have
the technology in place. You know, we
have to be able to do all the different
channels and to make sure we can get
important feedback to our clients,
homeowners.
>> Technology of course is advancing
rapidly from AI to automation and all
facets of mortgage. How has it
transformed the customer experience for
borrowers from your perspective?
>> You know, it's really, you know, I never
thought I would in a million years say
it's really exciting to work in the call
center, but my gosh, it really is. With
all of the technology that we have with
AI, I mean, it's just the sky's the
limit on how we can reduce the amount of
time that we have to deal with a
borrower on the on the phone. But I
think the best way for me to do um to
explore this is to give you just two
examples. Once a borrow borrower or
homeowner calls into our call center and
they are fully verified, we can direct
them to what we think they're calling
about. Instead of having to have a
homeowner in an IVR and going, "Do I
press one? Do I press two? Do I press
three?" We basically have the data in
our our our systems to be able to say,
"Okay, are you calling on on a letter
that we sent you out on such and such
day regarding your hazard policy?" So,
we can direct them and then tell them
exactly what we want. You know, um that
is a huge lift. Number one, we have the
the um CSRs better able to handle that.
The other thing that we have in training
and I know this might seem like just
something really little but in training
get back in the days you would do role
playing okay so that you can make the
representative more confident in
handling calls. So the whole class would
listen to somebody do one role play with
AI we have every single one of our reps
they can take 10 to 20 different role
plays a day. It gives them immediate
feedback and coaching and lets them know
if they did it right or wrong or how
they can improve the call. End of the
day, you want consistent, concise,
confident reps giving the information to
your homeowners.
>> Those are wonderful examples. And Don,
I've really enjoyed talking to you
today. Final question. What has Proctor
Loan Protector learned over the years?
And what advice would you give others in
mortgage servicing to improve their
customer experience?
You know what? Um, that's an interesting
question, too, because, you know, that's
not rocket scientists because we're all
consumers. We all have to reach out to
some organization almost every day or at
least every week to try to get
information or get something issued.
What do you want to see? You want to be
able to number one get the information
yourself. At least I do. But there are
some people who still want the human
element. So, I would say, you know, with
all this technology, you still got to be
nimble. You still got to make sure that
you have the human touch to be able to
address everybody's needs, but you also
got to know your consumer and what are
they looking for. Um, and I also think
it's really, really important to have a
dedicated team that always looks at the
outliers to improve your processes.
Never stop evolving. This technology is
moving so fast. Embrace, stay ahead of,
encourage, support, and engage and
reward your team. And I'm just going to
end on this brief note that um I went to
New York and I went to the Empire State
Building and they give all these
pictures and they showed the call center
in the 1930s where they took the things
out and they're plugging it in to be
able to handle phone calls. Okay, we've
come a long way. Can we imagine where
we're going to be in another 20 years?
>> I was just about to say that.
Outstanding advice. We have certainly
come a long way. Donna, this has been a
very informative conversation. Thank you
again for joining us.
>> Thank you very much. And everyone have a
great day.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
