Michael Zawatsky joins us this morning,
global CIO at Blackstone Credit and
Insurance on a quick trip to this side
of the pond. Welcome. Thank you so much
for being here. Walk us through those
oceans and oceans of opportunities that
Jim Zelter is talking about because you
have plenty of people on the other side
of the coin saying actually this is
where the cracks may be.
Well, it's great to be here. Thank you
so much for having me. Uh maybe I'd make
a couple of points on those comments.
The first thing we see is this massive
opportunity set as Jim mentioned in
private credit today. the market is
around $2 trillion of in size. We see an
addressable market of over $30 trillion
in private credit. And so there's a long
runway as we expand that market what in
what was traditionally focused on
sponsorbacked direct lending to
financing the real economy
infrastructure assetbacked finance and
we think we are very early in that
journey. So that creates a tremendous
amount of opportunities. I would say
what we're seeing on the ground in terms
of fundamentals is actually pretty good
resilience. Our portfolio companies
continue to show strong growth. If we
look across Blackstones, over 2,000
non-investment grade credits, our
default rate is less than 50 basis
points. I think what's important here is
scale really matters and having a global
region footprint to access all of these
markets really matters because you never
know exactly where that opportunity set
may show up and you want to be able to
capitalize on it like we're seeing uh
today in Europe actually. Well, it's
fascinating that you you bring up that
keyword scale in Europe because it's no
secret that the private equity players
and the private credit players of the
United States have kind of swooped in to
fill in that sovereign financing gap.
How much of that though is bolstered by
these fiscal promises from European
leaders at the end of the day?
Look, um last week Blackstone celebrated
its 25th anniversary on the ground here
and we spoke about deploying over $500
billion of capital in Europe over the
next decade. It's been a great market
for us over a long period of time and so
we don't view this necessarily as a
distinct moment in time. What we see is
a great investing backdrop here in
Europe like we've seen over a long um
time frame. Um your corporate and
consumer balance sheets are in good
shape. Yes, you see an improved fiscal
and monetary backdrop with some
tailwinds in areas like defense and
infrastructure spending and credit
specifically because there's less
capital here in Europe. We see excess
spreads. we see lower leverage levels.
That's why we have been active.
Actually, 2024 was our most active year
ever in Europe in private credit. We've
built our team um to over 150 people
across five offices in the region. And
as we look forward, that opportunity set
I mentioned in infrastructure and asset
backed credit. It's in its absolute
nency here in Europe. We have over a
hundred billion dollars of assets in
that market in the US. We're just
getting started here. And so when we
look across the next decade, we see 40%
or $200 billion of investment
opportunity in credit alone for
Blackstone in Europe.
So you're in the nation of that and
you're really leaning into it. But do
you feel like European institutions are
getting more comfortable with the
private credit risk? Well, I think the
access to capital for borrowers as we as
this market scales in areas like digital
infra in and we heard Jensen Wong from
Nvidia say 10x compute in Europe over
the next two years. And so I think there
are huge capital needs in the market
just like we've seen in the US to drive
growth, to drive innovation, to drive
energy and power investments and you
need private capital to meet those
needs. What about the retail investors
though? Because they're pariling into
private credit as well, but of course
they're they expect liquidity, right?
So, how worried are you that that could
trigger a crunch if there's a downturn?
Yeah, I don't worry about that all that
much because I think if you step back
and actually look at the facts of what
we're doing in private credit
inherently, it's not a very risky
undertaking, right? We're doing mostly
senior secured lending first in line for
repayment 40% loan to value in large
high-quality businesses or we're doing
investment grade lending both of which
are lower risk activities. The vehicles
that we deliver those in they are
largely unlevered or very modestly
levered at one times. The capital
matches on a liability and asset base to
address those liquidity risks. And so
when you actually look at the facts on
the ground and the Fed has actually
looked at this over recent years. We
actually feel like every dollar that
goes into the private credit system
actually derisks the market and offering
individual investors the opportunity to
access the excess returns lower
volatility that our institutional
clients have enjoyed in private credit.
That's a good thing.
Europeans love to regulate though. So if
you the f the bigger it gets and the
further it goes down into the retail
space, did should we just expect more
regulation? I wouldn't say that because
I think what we should expect is it's
logical when you see growth in a market
to see these questions be asked. But
we've had those questions asked for
several years and I think as you get the
scale is getting bigger.
That's right. But I think as the
education is provided, as you look at
the facts on the ground, I think people
will come to see that it's a real
positive for the system.
Yes, I agree. It could be a positive for
the system. But there is a duration
mismatch as as as he points out
generally when banks have a duration
mismatch and we learned this in the
1930s 29 is that you you want to
regulate that you want to kind of create
some buffers within the system is that
what maybe private credit is going to
have to deal with
well I don't think I would necessarily
agree with that guy most of the way our
clients access private credit are in
longdated closed end funds where there
is a strong asset liability m uh match
and even in our uh vehicles that target
um individual investors we have designed
caps on liquidity such that we match the
risk that we have in the underlying
portfolio
is is what you're talking about.
We have products that are designed to
match the underlying liquidity of the
assets and and I think that has worked
and has been battle tested over several
years in the US and I think you'll see
the same thing in Europe. There's also
though you're talking about the
liquidity and that kind of safety in
terms of being long duration, but there
is a growing need and growing desire and
and growing product match in terms of
being actually able to trade private
credit in the interim in the short term,
whether it's via ETFs, whether it's via,
you know, endowments or pensions or or
whatever that may may look like. Walk us
through the risks of that. If you're
talking about products that ultimately
have that safety of of being a long
duration asset, what about the the folks
that are using it to to trade in and out
every day? Yeah, I would tell you what
we see in the private credit market is a
lot of chatter about trading, but for
the most part, we haven't seen a lot of
trading. I think most of our borrowers
go to private credit because they want
um a partner that they can uh see
through in the long term who's going to
hold on to that loan and be there to
support the credit over time. And I
would say our investors look to us to
originate private credit because that
delivers them excess spread, excess
return versus the liquid markets. And so
we haven't while there's been a lot of
chatter around trading in private
credit, we haven't seen that scale in a
a significant way. You might see it as
episodically, but I don't think that'll
be a huge trend.
Do we see retail taking up more of that
that trading base and more of the
exposure to private credit?
Here's what I would say. I think when we
look over a long period of time, retail
has been significantly underinvested in
privates, especially when you compare
that to our institutional clients.
Sure. and privates have delivered a lot
of excess return for our institutional
client base. And so I think it's a great
thing for individual investors to have
access to that and we're delivering
products that can do that in a safe way
that delivers that excess return and
lower volatility that our institutional
clients have enjoyed for 40 years.
More interest in Europe. So I'm curious
about this. You talk about this being in
the early infancy of this story.
There is a in broader markets there's
this view now that that you want to
diversify your portfolios away from the
United States that the United States has
ex enjoyed its exorbitant privilege for
too long and maybe actually the rest of
the world's going to outperform for a
while. Do you get that sense from your
investors at the moment that they're
looking at Europe to do that and if they
are how early are they in that process?
Yeah, what I would say to that is the US
will continue to be a very strong place
to invest for our clients and for
Blackstone and and we don't see that
trend ending. Right. the US largest
capital markets in the world, largest
GDP, center of innovation,
continue to suck money in.
Well, I think you'll see us continue to
be a great place to deploy. That being
said, I think some of the the headlines,
some of the uncertainty um you've seen
around the US has caused clients around
the world to look at other options and
they look at Europe and they see what we
see, which is an attractive investing
landscape. And so, I think you'll see
them look to invest in both and and in
some cases diversify their portfolio
where they see those opportunities.
There's a lot of catching up to do,
isn't there?
The United States.
Well, look, I I again, I think this goes
back to where we started, which is that
incredibly long runway and tailwind we
have behind private credit. And that's
why we see this $200 billion deployment
opportunity for us here in Europe over
the next decade.
Okay, Michael, we're going to leave it
there. Thank you very much indeed. Uh
Michael Zawitzky, global CIO, Blackstone
Credit. Thank you very much indeed.
