Lee, so good to see you again.
It's been a while and I'm really, really excited
to talk about "Architecting for Scale".
You've now got the second edition out, right?
That's correct.
It's great to see you, Ken.
I always love talking to you about these topics
or frankly, any topic.
We always have great conversations.
I think the thing that's always interesting
to me about somebody that takes the time to
write a book is: what's the first thing that
inspired you?
There was a time you were like, "Hey, I've
got this thing I'm seeing as a problem and
I wanna share my view with the world."
Tell me what originally inspired you to start
writing "Architecting for Scale”.
I worked at Amazon for many years.
I learned a lot about building scalable systems
there.
And when I left Amazon, I moved to what at
the time was a relatively small startup called
New Relic, which had maybe 100 total people
in the company, a little bit less than 100
people.
They were running into a lot of scaling problems,
of trying to grow from being a small system
to being a much larger system.
I saw them struggle with the same sorts of
things that we had already solved at Amazon.
And so, I became the the scalability expert,
if you will, and helped with putting in processes,
and procedures, things like risk management
matrices, and service tiers, and all those
different processes, to help them get to the
point where they can start managing their
systems and scale them without having availability
outages.
When I did that, I realized New Relic wasn't
unique.
There was nothing special about the problems
they were running into, and that all companies
of probably similar size, were running into
similar sorts of problems.
And that's where I thought, I bet you there's
a book here, I bet you I could write this
into a book.
I got connected with O'Reilly and suggested
that book, and they were really excited about
the idea.
And I went from there.
The first version came out in 2016 based on
my experiences with helping get New Relic
through the initial push.
As the book started growing in popularity,
I started getting interactions with lots of
other companies.
I'd often get comments like, "Oh, you should
hear what we ran into."
and started seeing the breadth of companies
and the problems they've had with scalability,
in general.
I fed a lot of that learning into the second
edition of the book, which came out about
a year ago.
That makes sense.
I know we had some fun times talking with
a lot of enterprises across the globe at New
Relic because when we think about transformation,
it's always people, process, and technology.
It's all three of
those coming together and bringing a book
that hits on the technical parts but also
on some of the people process parts, I know
that's a really crucial component that you
hit on a lot in the book.
It's very clear that you can't solve scaling
and availability by code.
You can't solve it by just wishing it away.
It's a combination of developers and management
doing the right things, and putting processes
and procedures in place in order to do the
right things.
And all those things together, really have
to work as a cohesive whole, in order for
you to be able to build a system that's highly
available and still be able to scale.
Just as a simple example, we've talked about
this topic a lot, Ken, risk management.
The ability to come up with and figure out
what the risks of your application are, in
order to reduce availability risk to your
application and be able to scale, that's as
much of a process issue, as it is a technical
issue.
When you build technical debt into the application,
dealing with that technical debt and understanding
which of it you need to remove versus living
with, that's a process issue, not a technical
issue.
And putting all those things into place requires
a whole cohesive process that's not just technology,
not just management, not just engineering,
not just a key.
It involves everybody working together to
make that happen across all the different
disciplines that are important in building
an application.
Lee, let's double-click for a moment on risk
matrix.
I always think that's interesting because
a lot of times when people first go to a risk
matrix, they say, "Okay, let me identify what
the key risks of the business are.
What are some shaky things"?
But it's also a really powerful tool to not
only understand risk but also understand where
you should invest.
Think about the amount of times that you and
I have talked to large enterprises where maybe
after a major outage or a major impact, they
came back and realized that for years, they
had underinvested in that particular area
because maybe it was running okay.
But no one really had a risk matrix, a data
point to show that this area is risky and
it makes sense to invest.
So,even for technology leaders it's a great
tool to talk about investment with their business
partners.
Absolutely.
I think the under-recognized values of maintaining
and building risk matrices is the ability
to communicate with upper management.
When your management comes to you and is frustrated
because you're not getting the things done
you need to get done or they think that you
need to get done, and you start talking to
them about all these other things you need
to do, it's hard to explain and have the conversations
to understand what's important and what's
not.
When management wants new features and engineering
wants to improve things and operations just
wants things to work no matter what and all
of these different competing requirements
can't be prioritized against each other.
What the risk matrix does is it puts all of
those things together into a single format
and it starts putting measures on these things.
So, you can tell that not doing this capability
is gonna cost us this amount later on because
of this risk that's going along with it.
And by doing that, you can communicate both
technical risk up, but also product risk down
throughout the organization and start being
able to prioritize and make decisions a lot
better on what things are really the most
important things to work on first.
Is it more important to remove this technical
debt or add this new feature?
What's really more important?
How do you make those decisions?
A risk matrix can really help you accomplish
that.
I love how you emphasize that in the book
and it really allows people to take the term
technical debt and, again, translate it into
risk, or business terms.
Business leader, when you're like, "Hey, we
have technical debt," they are usually like,
"Hey, you're just looking for more investment."
But when you can talk on these other terms,
it helps a lot.
Another of the things I really like in the
book is that you not only give the framework
of how to set it up but you actually give
people actionable examples that they can go
to your website and download templates, right?
That's correct.
There's 1,000 different ways to do a risk
matrix.
I have a model that I prefer.
I know you have a model that you prefer and
I make those available.
It’s a simple Excel spreadsheet format available
from my website, you can download and get
to.
And if you go to leeatchison.com, you can
get access to those there.
I believe you can also get access to them
from O'Reilly.
But there's nothing magic about it.
It's not like you have to use a particular
format or it won't work, that you have to
do this, that, and the other thing.
But knowing where to start and having an idea
of where to start can be a great way to synergize
your organization.
I've seen companies that have taken that initial
format and said, "Well, this just isn't gonna
work at all, but they took it and started
with it."
And what they ended up with was something
that looks completely different and I have
a hard time recognizing it.
You can still see it's a risk matrix and it
has the things that they care about the most
built into it.
It's not just likelihood and severity, which
are the two things that I focus on primarily
in a risk matrix, but they've also included
things like revenue impact.
What is the revenue impact for doing or not
doing a particular item within the risk matrix?
And it's a step further.
It's a step deeper into their processes that
work for them and that's great.
So they started with the initial idea of the
risk matrix, took the initial templates, and
built on it from there.
Let's talk a little bit about deconstructing
the monolith into microservices.
You mentioned this with New Relic.
I think companies that are building new, oftentimes
start with microservices.
So, I wanna hit on that too.
But let's talk about companies that maybe
still have some monoliths first.
They're moving to microservices, trying to
go to a services architecture and thinking
about SLOs and SOIs.
You have a lot of great information in the
book about going through that transformation.
What are some of the key takeaways that companies
should consider that they can uncover in the
book?
Sure.
A lot of the devil's in the details.
There's a fear from many people that are moving
monoliths to microservices.
The main fear is past experiences that haven't
gone so well.
If you look at the things that can go wrong
in that sort of transformation, there are
a few things that are common, that appear
that people can always run into.
And by dealing with them upfront, you end
up in a much better shape as time goes on.
One of the big ones is where do I wanna put
my service boundaries?
Do I split this monolith into 5 services or
500 services?
What's the right size and the right model
for that to work?
And it turns out, there's a lot that's involved
in deciding where you wanna put a service
boundary.
And I have a whole process I go through for
right-sizing microservices, if you will.
I call it the Goldilocks process.
You know, it's not too small or too big.
It's just right.
And it's all about the structure of the data,
the structure of the code, the size of the
team it takes to support the code, and how
you build and make that model work as you
go along.
It's too much to properly get involved in
this level of conversation but there's a lot
of information there, and a lot of articles
I've written on this topic as well too, that
talk through the process of how do you decide
where to put a boundary into your microservice.
That's number one, I think number two, and
in many ways, maybe this is number one is
knowing when to stop and when not to stop.
I've run into many, many, many companies that
have started down the process of building
microservices and stopped it halfway in the
middle.
And this isn't just true with microservices.
I've seen it with other migrations as well,
cloud migrations and other things.
They find out that the cost is higher than
expected, the difficulty is higher than expected.
The problem is, there's not a linear grasp
between the amount of effort you put into
migration and how much benefit you get out
of it.
When you put effort into a migration, what
happens at first is, you get a negative benefit
out of it because you go into this trough,
where things are actually worse for your application
than they were before.
You've got a monolith that's broken into 10
parts that are all intertwined in weird ways.
And I'd say it's a more complex and more difficult
to manage situation.
But then you get to a point where you keep
investing in the migration and you start seeing
the benefits coming out of that.
They start outweighing the cost going in.
There's a translation point where the benefits
outweigh the total cost that you put in.
And that's when the migration is a success.
But too many people run into that cost of
the migration and in the middle decide it's
too expensive, they can't complete this, and
they stop.
They've gone to the point where they've invested
money that's wasted and they've made the application
and the technical debt in the application
worse now than they were before.
I've even seen companies stop at that point
and then try and convince everyone that this
was a success.
You know, we proved this was a hard exercise.
So, we got good learnings out of this.
And therefore, things are better off because
of it.
But everyone looking at the mess of code that's
available to them says, "There's nothing better
about this.
This is a bad situation we're in."
But they stop investing.
The second piece of advice is to commit to
it and commit to completion because there
are going to be low points.
There are going to be points in it where you're
convinced it's not going to work.
Trust the process and realize that it will
work and it will complete.
Maybe it'll be more expensive than you initially
thought.
That does happen sometimes.
But you'll come up with a better world when
you're finally done.
I think I know the answer but are there any
key trends that you see of the people who
went all the way and the people who stopped
in the middle?
Is there any secret sauce that if you don't
do this, you won't get to the other end?
Absolutely, planning is key.
Knowing what you wanna do and how you wanna
do it is critical.
When we're talking specifically about a microservice
architecture, it’s deciding which direction
you're going to go, are you gonna start at
the bottom and move up or the top and move
down is critical.
I usually prefer the bottom up, you know,
start with critical components, like user
identity and things like that, and then build
on top of that versus starting at the user
experience and moving down.
Having a plan for which direction you wanna
go and what the steps along the way are.
Dealing with the process changes that are
going to be required to make this happen as
you go along is also critical.
You know, things like CICD processes are nice
to have for monoliths.
They're absolutely essential for microservice
architectures.
Building those in place before you need them
is a critical aspect, focusing on those process
and procedure improvements as you go.
And I think the biggest thing is to understand
it's an investment.
It's taking time away from building new features,
yes.
But the end result is you're gonna be in a
better situation and be able to better respond
to faster-moving trends, in general.
And that's going to make you more responsive
and be able to build a better business.
But you don't get there overnight.
I think that makes sense.
I think you and I have talked about this.
I think making sure the business comes along
for the ride and they understand the business
benefits like business agility.
You just hit on that, I think so spot on.
When I was at Amazon, the very first project
ever worked on was moving from the Obidos
monolithic amazon.com website into their service-oriented
architecture.
I was one of the managers that drove that
migration project.
That project worked, it was successful and
the end result was that the things we were
able to work on in the future grew astronomically
as a result of that migration.
You can just see it on the website.
You would go from slow-moving, new features
being added occasionally, but not very often.
Then we invested in the migration and no new
features appeared on the website for a long
time, a year, year-and-a-half.
And then finally, we finished, and the pent-up
demand of all these new capabilities and new
trials and tests just magically started appearing
and started growing within the organization
and visible to the outside world in a very,
very, fast manner.
And that innovation, that growth was only
possible because of that investment we put
in to do the migration.
The level of management support necessary
to do that was huge because the cost of not
innovating for a period of time was extremely
high for a company like Amazon, but they saw
the investment and they made it work.
And this had support all the way up to Jeff
Bezos.
I mean, Jeff Bezos was involved and knew about
the migration going on.
I have had conversations with him about it,
as we were going through the migration process.
And he was one of the first people when we
finished the project, to come down at our
launch process and thanked us for all of our
work.
This had huge management support from the
very top of the organization down to make
these changes.
These changes were fundamental to allow the
retail organization to continue to innovate,
and grow, and to come up with new ideas as
time went on.
I love that, the business leader getting involved
and supporting the team.
I think that's so critical.
You're usually not quick to share your Amazon
experience but thanks for bringing Beanstalk
to the world.
I know so many companies use that every single
day.
And that must feel great.
Do you actually mention that in the book?
I can't remember.
I'm not sure if I mentioned Beanstalk in the
book or not but I'll tell you, people don't
know when we're recording this, but AWS re:Invent
is going on as we speak right now.
And just yesterday was Adam Selipsky's first
keynote presentation.
He was my manager for Beanstalk and he's now
running AWS.
He went for a 15-year history of AWS.
In the early history, he mentioned S3, EC2,
RDS, and Beanstalk.
And to hear Elastic Beanstalk mentioned on
that stage was a neat feeling because that
was my baby.
That was the thing that they brought me in
to help build that product.
And what was really innovative about Beanstalk,
it really isn't a complex service.
But it was Amazon's or AWS's first platform
as a service versus infrastructure as a service.
And it took the existing infrastructure services
that were there, which were just a handful
of services at the time, and it put a wrapper
around them in a way that provides a business
value to customers.
So instead of having to compute EC2 units
and storage units and a database, and just
all these random components, you had a web
application.
And you can take a web application and install
it.
And we will do all of the infrastructure for
you to make all that work.
It was a really innovative service at the
time because it was the first one that did
that.
Now, a company like AWS has, what, 200, 300
services.
Most of them are platform-level or application-level
capabilities.
But at the time, that was really innovative.
That was a different direction for AWS to
go.
It was great to see that mentioned during
the keynote.
Lee, a lot of people read your book and reach
out.
I think you worked with a lot of companies
now, helping them on these journeys after
they've read the book.
What are some of the key things where someone
read something in the book and is looking
to you to go that extra detail of how you
implement the concept?
What were key themes people learned from the
book and that they are reaching out and asking
you about?
I'll tell you one of the most common things
I do with clients is a survey of their processes,
their procedures and less so their code, but
the architecture of the application.
And I tell them, "Here are places you're gonna
run into problems.
Here are places that are causing you problems
today, whether you're aware of them or not."
In some cases, they are aware, in some cases,
they're not.
But, sometimes it's just hearing an outsider
come in and say, "Yeah you know where the
problem is.
It's right here."
And their response is to say, "Yeah, but it's
great to hear that someone else agrees with
that or someone who knows what they're talking
about agrees with that.
That's what we thought would be the issue."
That alone is extremely valuable.
So, I would say I spend most of my consulting
time doing that sort of analysis.
It's like, let me spend a few days talking
to you, to your engineers, and your organization,
and come up with a list, if you will, or a
recommendation of where you really should
focus on in order to improve availability
and scalability, in particular, but also general
modernization to increase flexibility and
growth and all those sorts of things.
Often the results of that are things that
you already know are true, but hearing it
is good confirmation.
Almost exclusively, when I've been able to
do that successfully, companies have come
back and said, "Yeah, that's changed the direction
that we were moving.
And we took what you said to light."
Maybe even changed staffing as a result of
some of my decisions and helped to put better
procedures and processes in place in order
to do the right things, to get rid of the
technical debt and to make things go in the
right direction.
As far as specific tools that are helpful,
the risk matrix is probably the number one
most important tool that people take from
my book and I'll talk about it in my consulting.
They'll take that and grow with it.
The second one is moving to microservices
and plans to make that happen.
Third is probably data management, data sizing
and data construction.
A lot of people are still falling into the
traps of having the database delivering too
much work.
Let's put all of our data into a single database
and use complex database constructs in order
to recall all the data we need as we need
them versus localizing data where it's needed,
making data part of the service and so you
deconstruct your data, just like you deconstruct
your service code and see how data is much
more manageable that way in a much larger
organization.
Those sorts of things are probably the biggest
things that people take out of what they get
out of my book anyway.
That makes a lot of sense.
You also talk a little bit about operating
for scale, like service level objectives,
error budgets.
What are some of the key takeaways when you
start building a system that's going to operate
at scale that you need to make sure to implement?
I always say that availability and scalability
are the same thing.
I firmly believe that because what usually
happens is, as you scale, your availability
suffers.
And as you build an application, it has more
and more customers, you end up making decisions
that impact availability more than necessarily
and that has an impact on scalability.
So, often, when I'm talking about the operational
aspect of things, I'm focused more on the
availability aspects than on the scalability
access.
So, things like zero-downtime deployments,
things like, you know, the security processes
to keep bad actors out.
I'm not a security expert but security processes
and procedures are part of your risk management
processes.
You have to inject them into that whole process
as well.
Things like, you know, testing at scale.
Believe it or not, I'm a firm believer that
unit testing, code-level testing, you know,
is less critical than production testing.
And I do most of my business, as I recommend
to my clients, what I'd recommend to them
is to spend most of their time testing with
full production in a production environment.
Game days.
What happens if I pull a data center offline
in production?
Do things just continue to work or do they
break?
What happens if I randomly crash computers
one an hour across my data center?
What happens?
Doing that sort of testing, random testing,
doing that in production, not in the staging
environment, not on a desktop but in a production
environment, the net result of doing those
sorts of things is you end up with a much
higher reliability system and a greater trained
staff to be able to deal with problems as
they crop up.
And the cost to, you know, the initial days
of, you know, what happens when I turn off
the computer, well, my whole system goes down?
Those days do happen at the beginning.
But the cost of that is insignificant compared
to the savings later when you get to the point
where random problems occurred, that you're
not planning on and your system's able to
have self-heal self-recover from them.
Self-healing is a big aspect of the things
I teach from the decoding aspects, and they
play into the operational aspects.
So, I'm a huge fan of production level, you
know, game day sort of testing, and that being
the most valuable testing you do to your system.
I hear people focus on test suites but you
can't release code unless you write an extensive
test suite that goes with that code.
Well, most of the time, I could say, I don't
care whether you write test suites or not,
because for the most part, most of the time,
the types of bugs that are hard to find, hard
to identify, and cost your business money
aren't the bugs that are caught by a developer-level
test suite.
They're the bugs caught by production operational
environments.
Now, here are a couple of things.
I think, you know, when you're going to services,
making sure you have defined inputs and outputs
and really have the monitoring on that level
necessarily versus just the code inside because
you might not catch things, but a lot of people
I think might confuse game days with a DR
exercise because I know, you know, we've talked
to many large enterprises and a lot of times,
they quote DR or they might mix up with a
game day is really a tabletop exercise versus
a true game day.
Can you kind of share the differences from
your perspective on what a true game day and
when you're running game days in your organization
versus a DR exercise versus a DR tabletop
exercise?
Sure.
So, literally, when you are running your application
production, turning off production level resources
or causing them to behave inappropriately,
and just seeing what happens without telling
people that you're going to do this, without,
you know, giving a heads up to your development
organization, that is what I mean by game
day.
That has nothing to do with the formal process
of disaster recovery.
You know, you can have all the paper plans
in the world for what to do when your system
fails, and we're gonna roll over to this environment,
and we have these levels of backups and all
these things work fine.
On paper, they can work fine.
In reality, they don't.
And nothing beats being prepared for a catastrophe
than causing a catastrophe to see what happens.
I love that.
And you think about...
It sounds crazy to me to be thinking about
this.
But boy, I would much rather see what happens
when I completely destroy a data center during
the day when my staff is around and perhaps
at a low traffic time for my website or lower
traffic time on my website.
I'd much rather do that than to have it happen
in the middle of the night when my on-call
engineer is just waking up from going to bed
two hours ago, and is still groggy, and all
my customers are complaining.
You know, I'd much rather have the former
than the latter.
And so, I want to make sure that everything
works by testing, that it actually works,
as opposed to doing the paper exercise to
see whether it works.
And so, disaster recovery planning scenarios
that you typically get from...
here's my DR report, so uncovered.
That paper's worth the price of the paper
it's written on and that's really about it
because unless you are certain that things
are going to work in that scenario by testing
it, it's an irrelevant sheet of paper.
So many times, I've seen disaster recovery
scenarios fail because somebody forgot something.
You know, one of the stories I tell in my
book and I tell the story a lot in my talks
is I tell the story about an apartment, you
know, living in an apartment and having a
garage in that apartment.
Now, this apartment that I'm living in, has
poor quality power.
And so, I buy a generator that I can use when
the power goes out.
And this is part of my disaster planning scenario.
If the power goes out, I have a generator,
I can still keep my refrigerator working and
I don't lose food.
So, when I don't need it, though, I put the
generator in the garage.
The problem is the garage is one of these
apartment garages with only the main door,
one door, that's the only door into the garage.
And it's got a garage door opener on it.
And nobody thought to put in a mechanical
release lever for this garage door opener
that's accessible from the outside.
So, when the power goes out to the apartment
complex, you can't open the garage door.
So, you have this generator to solve the problem
when the power goes out but you can't get
access to the generator because the power
is out.
You know, but you don't think of that until
you actually go through this scenario of turning
off the power, setting up the generator, and
seeing if it works.
And then you see that, oops, there's a flaw
in my plan here that doesn't work because
I didn't think about how do I open a garage
door when there's no power.
That step in that process didn't enter the
DR playbook but you would notice it instantly
when you try it out to see what actually happens.
So, I use that example a lot.
It's a great example, you know, of multiple
levels of problems that when...
You know, most of the time when you have a
major outage, it's not one thing that went
wrong.
It's two or three or four things in a row
that goes wrong.
Disaster recovery plans tell you what happens
when one thing goes wrong.
So, when the power goes out, do this, that's
great.
When such and such happens, do this, that's
great.
But they don't talk about what happens when
cascade things occur.
So, in this example, there's two problems
that occurred, power went out, and nobody
thought about what would happen to the garage
door when the power went out.
So, that combination of those two mistakes
together meant that you had a disaster recovery
plan that was inaccessible to you.
Yeah, I always think big outages are always
if, if, if.
It's like three things happen, and then you
have a big issue.
I love how you also talk about, like, you
know, there's terms like Chaos Monkey, but
actually building in your systems chaos, so
it's constantly running, which really forces
that constant, you know, focus on resiliency
by design?
Right.
Absolutely.
Thank you for mentioning Chaos Monkey.
You know, the whole idea of having a production
environment that is chaotic and filled with
unexpected things happening is valuable, not
a problem.
So, people say, "I want my production to run
smooth."
No, you don't.
You want it to run as chaotically as possible,
so that as many things that could go wrong,
happen, so you build the processes in to be
able to respond to them so that when they
happen, and you're not expecting them, that
you're able to self-heal and self-recover
from them.
You know, if you have a solid, continuous
deployment process with a solid ability to
back out of a problem, you know, very, very
quickly and roll back with ability to quickly
respond and get a new capability out quickly,
an outage doesn't have to be a disaster.
It doesn't have to require...
You know, if you make a mistake in a code
and it causes a feature to disappear, well,
you roll it back and fix that problem quickly.
And you'll know never to do that change again,
right?
There are all sorts of things you can do that
create in that risk...that cause a chaotic
production environment.
And you need to be able to build defensively
code that can live in that environment.
And very quickly, if you build code that isn't
defensive enough to live in this chaotic environment,
you'll learn very quickly the moment you deploy
it, there's a problem with it.
Very, very quickly, because you're gonna hit
those corner kind of cases that are causing
these problems very, very fast.
And so, you tend to produce higher-quality
code, higher-quality releases, more responsive
releases, more self-healing releases over
time, by having a chaotic production environment.
When you don't have a chaotic production environment,
when you have a smoothly operating production
environment, you get complacent and you start
assuming things are always going to be smooth
and operate normally.
So that when a problem occurs, it becomes
a bigger problem, a much more serious problem.
Lee, in private lives we both run systems
that, you know, half-hour outage is $40 million.
High pressure.
I always think about when you build chaos
into your system, like, that gives you peace
of mind because you know, the system is constantly
under your attack that you created and you
know it's resilient by design.
So, I always think, like, that gives the team
a peace of mind where you're gonna have less
issues by making that investment, which means
less late-night calls, means less, you know,
high-priority RCA reports and all that, less
D&R plans, all that good stuff.
Exactly.
Yeah.
You know, chaos shouldn't be feared.
Chaos is value.
Chaos is examples to learn.
And the more chaos you have, the more you
learn, the more capable your system is, the
more robust your system is, the more stable
it's going to be as time goes on.
If your application can run in a chaotic environment,
it can run anywhere.
If it can run in a smooth environment only,
it can only run in a smooth environment.
Lee, there are so many other things that you
can learn and unpack in "Architecting for
Scale".
I know we don't have that much more time.
Anything else that you think we should bring
up that, you know, might be a tidbit that
a reader can just take and run with and get
some value right away?
Oh, jeez.
We talked about risk management.
We've talked about the chaos thing.
We haven't talked too much about CICD but,
you know, it should be obvious from what we're
talking about here that a high quality, continuous
deployment, and continuous integration environment
is critical to running a chaotic production
environment that's highly available and highly
scaled.
You know, companies like Amazon do hundreds
and thousands of releases an hour.
And there are still customers today, clients
today...
I had one client, in particular, I was talking
to not that long ago, that is still tied into
the weekly release process.
And the weekly release process, they'll release,
every Thursday, whether they need to or not
something.
And guess what?
Those releases are costly.
They're problematic.
They're undisciplined because they only occur
every week, you know.
But when you're releasing continuously, you
know, hundreds of times a day, you know, then
the release process is just an extension of
the development process.
And you're able to respond and fix things
a lot faster.
So, we didn't talk too much about that but
I would say, that would be one more thing
I would throw into that mix, and make sure
that you understand is that that process,
that CICD process is absolutely essential
to maintaining a robust, chaotic environment.
I agree.
And I think that's also a good point as you
talked about making the full switch to services
because if you're deploying a monolith still
or a hybrid Frankenstein monolith, where you
half went to services, it's really hard to
have like canary deploys or things that are
checking and saying that this thing is functioning
correctly.
And so, it really, I think limits company's
ability to have those continuous deployments,
you know, the bigger, you know, uglier, bulkier
the system is.
So, I think to me, it's just a great point
of why they need to follow through.
Yep.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, you know, you're right.
That's one of the common feedbacks with CICD
systems is I can't deploy my monolith that
fast.
It just takes so much effort to do it.
I can't automate it because it takes 30 people
touching these 20 files all at the same time
to make it work.
Well, that's the problem, though.
Hey, and maybe it's so complex that even if
I did automate all of those things, I don't
know for sure if a particular thing was broken
but, like, in your book, if you have services,
and they're discreet and they're sized the
right way, you know what they're supposed
to do.
So, you know, if they're functioning or not,
and so you can kind of release without fear.
Yep, absolutely.
And I think that's a really, really good point.
Well, Lee, I'm so excited in your next event...
Obviously, do you have any more books coming
out soon or anything you can share?
Yeah.
Yeah, I've got a couple in process.
I've been talking to publishers, but nothing
I can easily talk about right now.
But stay tuned.
There is more coming.
But definitely look at my website.
Besides my main book, I have a couple of...
You know, I've got articles in other O'Reilly
books and a couple of reports written, they're
part of the O'Reilly ecosystem.
And I have a book that I wrote for Redis Labs
on caching, that they give away to their customers.
And so, take a look at that.
So, I've got several books out there.
Certainly "Architecting for Scale" is my main
one, but there's gonna be a couple ideas in
the works here.
There'll be another big one coming out here,
if not next year, then very early the year
after.
And Lee, if companies are kind of on that
journey, on that mission of transformation,
they can go to leeatchinson.com and learn
more, and not only will you help them, but
you also, once you do it, like, even come
with a keynote to explain the benefits, you
know, to the organization, to the tech group.
You still do that too, right?
Absolutely.
Yeah, I can...
You know, just from the content that I write
that can be helpful to you but if you wanna
engage me more directly, I can come in.
I can give a presentation to your team.
I can, you know, do, you know, an educational
webinar or seminar to your team or I can do
one of these analyze and comment and make
recommendation processes.
It's a little bit deeper integration or I
can do more than that.
It all depends on what you're looking for.
But absolutely.
I just gave a keynote last week to a company
that was going through an availability, launching
a whole new availability project, a little
more than a project and a program that they're
working on, and brought me in to talk about
availability from my book.
And I do those sorts of things all the time.
Lee, it was great catching up.
Look forward to our future videos and I will
always love to catch up.
But if you haven't seen it yet, definitely
pick up "Architecting for Scale".
I have it in my book...right behind me and
especially the second edition.
So, good stuff, Lee.
Great talking to you.
Thank you, Ken.
Great talking to you and I'll talk to you
soon.
All right, take care.
