[music] Brookfield letter to
shareholders Q3 2025. [music]
We had a very active quarter. Our
financial performance was strong in the
third quarter as we continue to execute
on key initiatives that are driving
growth across our franchise. We advanced
a number of strategic priorities
including an agreement to acquire the
remaining interest in Oak Tree, a
transformational partnership with the US
government to deliver $80 billion of new
nuclear plants in the US and continued
expansion of our well solutions
business. We also announced new
partnerships to accelerate AI
innovation. Two notable ones including
one with Figure supporting the
development of humanoid robotics and
Bloom Energy to install up to 1 gawatt
of behindthe-ter power generation to
support AI infrastructure globally. Our
well Solutions business continues to
expand globally, signing its first
Japan-based reinsurance agreement during
the quarter and receiving shareholder
approval for its major expansion in the
UK. With the foundations now in place
across key global markets, our well
solutions business is well positioned to
achieve $25 billion plus of annual
annuity inflows. In asset management, we
had our strongest quarter of organic
fundraising in the 3 years since it
listing, raising $30 billion across our
flagships and complimentary strategies.
We closed our second vintage of our
global transition flagship strategy, the
world's largest private fund strategy
focused on energy transition with $20
billion of commitments.
We also closed over $17 billion for our
opportunistic real estate strategy,
which we expect to have our final close
on by year end. And we launched the
seventh vintage of our flagship private
equity fund focused on essential service
and industrial businesses. Capital
markets remain highly supportive of real
assets, facilitating continued pickup in
transaction activity and enabling us to
finance $140 billion of debt across our
operations year to date. Given these
powerful secular trends and the growing
demand for real assets, the outlook for
our business remains strong.
The economy is resilient despite the
noise. The broader macroeconomic
backdrop for our business remains
constructive. The global economy is
resilient despite ongoing trade
uncertainty. In the US, economic
activity and corporate earnings remain
healthy, while some softness in the
labor market has prompted policy easing
from the Federal Reserve to support
growth and maintain balance across the
economy.
Lower real yields, stable nominal
growth, and strong financing conditions
are creating a favorable backdrop for
highquality long duration real assets
that generate resilient cash flows and
deliver strong riskadjusted returns.
Market conditions also remain highly
favorable for large-scale alternative
investment activity. Global M&A volumes
are up nearly 25% year-over-year,
marking the strongest year-to-ate period
since 2021.
This constructive transaction
environment has supported $115 billion
of deployment and $75 billion in
monetizations across our platform so far
this year, underscoring the advantages
of our global scale, diversified capital
base and deep operating expertise.
Investors are looking beyond near-term
uncertainty and are focusing on the
long-term opportunities that align with
the major secular themes where we are
deploying capital. At our annual
investor days, we highlighted how we are
well positioned to lead as the major
trends across AI innovation, retirement
products, and the real estate recovery
continue to drive growth and deployment
opportunities across our business. We
held our annual investor day this
quarter. For those unable to attend, the
webcast and presentation materials are
available on our website. The following
summarizes the key themes and highlights
from each of our businesses.
Brookfield Corporation. Brookfield
Corporation highlighted that its
disciplined investment approach has
produced a 19% annualized return for
over 30 years, significantly
outperforming global equity markets.
This was achieved by continuously
adapting our business and innovating to
invest in the ever evolving backbone of
the global economy. We invest in what's
next. As we continue to evolve, our
unwavering discipline and considerable
scale should allow us to remain
positioned to deliver durable
compounding value for our shareholders
in the years ahead. We also highlighted
the strength of our diversified business
model and the opportunities ahead as we
enter a new phase of growth, one that
positions us to grow distributable
earnings by 25% annually over the next 5
years. These opportunities are being
driven by the powerful secular trends
shaping the global economy. AI
innovation fueling demand for
large-scale infrastructure, aging
populations and individuals driving
demand for new wealth products, and a
global real estate recovery that is
underway and gaining momentum. Our
private holdings, wealth solutions, real
estate, and our carried interests in
funds managed by BAM are key drivers of
growth. The investment insurance
organization is managed to maximize
capital efficiency and compound
long-term earnings while maintaining a
low risk profile. The business has
scaled to $1.7 billion of distributable
earnings since it was launched 5 years
ago while sustaining a 15% plus return
on equity. Our goal is to more than
double insurance assets to $350 billion
in the next 5 years across our real
estate portfolio. Strong fundamentals
and improving capital markets position
us to generate up to $24 billion in cash
and deliver strong NOI growth across our
super core portfolio over the next 5
years. And finally, carried interest, a
significant yet often underestimated
driver of value, is at an inflection
point with $25 billion of cash expected
to be realized by us over the next 10
years.
Brookfield Asset Management. Brookfield
Asset Management highlighted its diverse
business mix, which allows for growth
across market cycles and positions us to
capture the benefits of long-term
structural forces transforming the
global economy with scale,
diversification, and a global owner
operator mindset. Our platform is built
to compound value for decades to come.
We highlighted our core strengths from
our product offerings to our
partnerships, our long track record of
performance, and the expansion of our
distribution channels. All of which are
the cornerstone of our continued growth.
Through our products, we are expanding
our flagship fund leadership in the
largest and fastest growing areas of
alternatives. We also use our expertise
to launch adjacent strategies to meet
client demand across the risk return
spectrum.
We have become a partner of choice for
leading corporates and governments
pursuing strategic initiatives that
require capital execution and operating
capabilities at scale from AI
infrastructure to energy transition to
payments platforms.
Our track record of performance across
cycles anchored in essential assets
remains one of our greatest competitive
advantages and our results earn trust
enable the growth of future funds and
reinforce the strength of our brand.
Finally, we are building the next major
engine of growth by repackaging our
strategies for private wealth,
retirement, and annuity investors.
Similar to the last 5 years, we expect
to double the size of our asset
management business within the next 5
years, growing fee bearing capital to
roughly a trillion.
Achieving this will allow us to double
fee related and distributable earnings
to approximately $6 billion and more
than 17% annualized compound return in
that time. Importantly, these plans do
not yet include a number of business
opportunities including new product
development not currently in the
pipeline, a faster opening of the 401k
market, and accelerated growth of our
capital markets business. Each of these
provides additional pathways to reach
our goal of 20% plus annualized growth.
Listed affiliates.
Brookfield Infrastructure BIP remains
focused on executing its strategy of
investing in and growing a best-in-class
infrastructure business. BIP has
achieved a 14% annualized FFO per share
growth rate since inception. A large
area of focus for this business now is
on the $7 trillion AI infrastructure
opportunity with plans to invest
large-scale capital into AI factories in
the US, Canada, Sweden, France, and
Germany among other countries. At
investor day, Bit reaffirmed its 10%
plus annualized FFO per share growth
target. Brookfield Renewable BEP
highlighted its leadership in delivering
renewable energy and executing a full
cycle value creation strategy with the
development pipeline exceeding 200
gawatt and a leading position in
technologies that provide critical base
load power hydro nuclear batteries. Bet
has become a partner of choice to global
technology businesses and governments
which are driving use of AI and power
demand at scale. An example of this is
BET's landmark agreement on hydro power
with Google which followed a similar
deal with Microsoft primarily on wind
and solar power. And investor day, BE
raised its deployment target and
reaffirmed 10% plus FFO per share growth
and 5 to 9% distribution growth targets.
Brookfield Business Partners BBU
highlighted its operations oriented
approach as the core differentiator of
our private equity platform. This has
enabled us to deliver top tier returns
in our private fund strategies for over
25 years. BBU has realized strong
returns on approximately 8 billion of
proceeds and over the last 5 years its
NAV has doubled. BBU also announced
plans to simplify its structure into a
single listed corporation. This will
enhance trading liquidity, index demand,
and we expect will enable price to trade
closer to value.
Real assets win in this environment.
Over the past 15 years, governments have
responded to successive economic
slowdowns with large fiscal programs.
The global financial crisis, the
sluggish growth of the mid 2010s, and
the pandemic each led to expansive
interventions.
Together, those interventions
contributed to a very significant
buildup of public debt. The combination
of large ongoing government deficits and
higher interest rates has made this
fiscal trajectory increasingly
unsustainable.
Global public debt is heading toward
100% of GDP. In the US, that figure is
about 125% up from roughly 60% before
the global financial crisis. And the
cost of servicing this debt has almost
doubled since 2020. Fiscal spending
remains high where real growth across
developed economies has slowed to less
than 2% annually. With borrowing costs
rising and growth subdued, debt ratios
will continue to climb unless
governments balance their budgets, which
few countries seem to be able to do. For
policy makers, there are a few paths to
stabilize the debt burden. The most
constructive outcome would be faster
economic growth that outpaces the growth
of debt, allowing leverage ratios to
decline naturally over time. Artificial
intelligence and broad innovation can be
the catalyst that drive productivity
gains and support a growthled reduction
in debt. A second alternative path is
reduce fiscal spending. But the
political appetite for austerity seems
to have dramatically diminished across
much of the developed world. As a
result, broad adoption of fiscal
responsibility does not seem likely. The
third alternative for policy makers is
to quietly manage interest rates below
inflation and gradually reduce debt
burdens. We are already seeing this
dynamic play out across the globe.
Central banks are employing forms of
curve control and balance sheet
expansion to ensure that debt servicing
remains manageable. Japan has done this
for decades and both China and parts of
Europe more recently. In essence, short
rates are going to be taken down and
long rates will be twisted down without
the system breaking to alleviate the
interest burden. In the event that
governments pursue this path, the likely
result will be a period of declining
real yields and lowish nominal rates.
This will create a different investment
climate than that which we have
experienced in recent years. This
environment provides optimal conditions
for the real assets in which we invest,
offering inflation linked cash flows
backed by hard assets that protect real
returns. The benefits of real assets are
always evident, but in this evolving
environment, they become an essential
part of an investment portfolio. A
suppression of real yields will further
amplify these benefits. Specifically,
lower rates will further enhance cash
flows by reducing financing costs. Over
the past 25 years, alternatives have
evolved from a complement to traditional
portfolios to a central component of the
global investment landscape,
particularly for investors seeking to
preserve real returns. In a world
defined by low real yields and
persistent inflationary pressure,
investors with medium to long-term risk
adjusted return targets will find it
increasingly difficult to meet their
needs in traditional markets.
Alternative investments in real assets
are the solution and they have been the
foundation of our investment strategy
throughout our history. Nuclear power is
back because the world needs it. We have
owned Westinghouse Electric Company
since before it was fashionable to be in
the nuclear business. With countries in
desperate need of base load power
capacity, the prospects today are
extremely positive. We recently
announced, actually the president of the
United States announced that the US
government will buy from Westinghouse
$80 billion of nuclear reactors to be
constructed in the US. These reactors
built using Westinghouse technology will
help reinvigorate the domestic nuclear
power industry and rebuild critical
supply chains. The initiative represents
the equivalent spend for eight large
scale reactors, enough to power the
state of Utah and more importantly
deliver 24/7 clean energy.
We are also evaluating plans for
Westinghouse and Brookfield to advance a
2,200 megawatt nuclear facility in South
Carolina, which we Brookfield and our
clients will fund completion of and own
the facility. The plant is approximately
40% built today, and we are assessing
the work required to bring the facility
online by 2030. Once operational, the
power is expected to be sold under
long-term contracts to the South
Carolina grid and other buyers. By way
of background, Westinghouse is the
leading global provider of highly
technical aftermarket products and
services to the nuclear power
infrastructure market and government
agencies around the world. It is a
global leader with a large installed
technology base. A large backlog of
contracted revenue, leading technology,
and a highly specialized workforce of
9,000 employees with over 2,500 highly
experienced and trained nuclear
engineers located around the world. We
acquired 100% of this business in 2018
for $4 billion of enterprise value and
initially invested a billion of equity.
In 2023, we sold half of the company to
Chemical, the uranium company feed stock
for nuclear plants, had an $8 billion
enterprise value. At that point, our
private equity fund, which initially
owned the investment, generated six
times their money and an IR of 60% from
distributions and sale proceeds. Our
transition fund acquired the other 50%
of the company at that time. As part of
this recently announced transaction, the
US government will have the opportunity
to participate in 20% of the company's
earnings at a value over 17.5 billion,
creating strong alignment of interest
for Westinghouse continued growth and
value creation. With new orders of
approximately $80 billion for plants and
many more in discussions globally and in
the US, the value of Westinghouse could
be upwards of $50 billion and more,
making this one of the most successful
investments ever by a sponsor group.
More importantly, it looks like we are
only getting started. The US orders for
nuclear plants will catalyze the scaling
up of the nuclear supply chain in the US
and will mark an inflection point in the
growth of the industry globally. These
tailwinds will allow us to grow our core
business, expand meaningfully in the US,
complete our SMR small plant technology,
and further expand the business
internationally. A big thank you to
President Trump, Commerce Secretary
Lutnik, and Energy Secretary Wright for
their vision and support. Private credit
is rapidly becoming a new normal. 15
years ago, the private credit market as
we know it today barely existed. In the
aftermath of the global financial
crisis, a combination of regulatory,
structural, and market forces reshaped
how companies borrow, and how investors
lend. Banks, constrained by higher
capital and liquidity requirements,
shifted from being long-term holders of
loans to facilitators, originating,
syndicating, and distributing risk. This
evolution is one of the more significant
changes in modern finance. At the same
time, borrowing needs began to expand
meaningfully with the growth in global
economies. As banks sought greater
balance sheet efficiency, private
lenders stepped in to meet the growing
need for long-term relationship-based
capital. The result is the creation of a
large and steadily growing private
market that complements the traditional
banking system. What began as a niche
market has evolved into a $2 trillion
industry supported by robust demand from
investors seeking stable risk adjusted
returns. While the primary focus of
private credit is direct lending,
non-investment grade corporate loans,
private credit goes far beyond that,
spanning both investment grade and
non-investment grade opportunities
across multiple asset classes and
structures, increasingly mirroring the
same lending categories that exist in
traditional liquid markets. At
Brookfield, private credit is a natural
extension of our real asset franchise.
We're able to leverage our position at
the intersection of private credit and
real assets to provide meaningful
sourcing, disciplined underwriting, and
execution advantages to maintain a
valueoriented selective approach to
deployment. While large amounts of
capital have been allocated to private
credit in recent years, we remain
focused on areas where capital is scarce
and expertise creates value. With the
perspective of an equity owner, we
underwrite each transaction through the
lens of our operating experience,
evaluating underlying business plans
with the same rigor we apply to our own
plans. Our credit business today
represents nearly $350 billion of assets
under management. A major catalyst
behind our growth has been our
partnership with Oak Tree. Formed in
2019 when we acquired a majority stake
in the business with the goal of
combining Brookfield scale, access to
capital, and real asset expertise with
Oak's deep credit experience and
valueoriented investment culture. The
partnership has exceeded expectations,
fueling the expansion of our private
credit platform, supporting our wealth
and insurance businesses, and helping
drive a 75% increase in Oak's assets
under management since our initial
investment. Last month, we announced the
next step in this partnership, an
agreement to acquire the remaining 26%
of Oakree that we do not already own for
$3 billion. Complete ownership will
fully align our teams and create one of
the most comprehensive and integrated
credit platforms in the world. Anchored
in real estate infrastructure and
renewable energy lending and
complemented by Oakree and our other
partner managers.
Artificial intelligence is just getting
started. Artificial intelligence applied
to the real economy represents a
significant opportunity for productivity
and efficiency gains. While widespread
adoption is years away, current advances
in this field are beginning to bridge
the gap between digital intelligence and
the real world, enabling machines to
perform complex tasks safely and
reliably in the world where we live.
This evolution is directly relevant to
the sectors in which we invest and
operate, where automation and efficiency
can deliver meaningful long-term value.
Humanoid robotics is emerging as the
most important technology within this
broader area. By design, humanoids can
adapt to environments built for people.
That is why they are built to look like
people and perform a wide range of
general tasks, making them well suited
to address structural workforce
challenges and enhance productivity
across a broad set of industries.
The potential impact of this shift may
ultimately rival or exceed prior
technological transitions such as mobile
and cloud computing, unlocking value
creation across the global economy. Our
involvement in physical AI builds on the
same principles that have guided our
success in other sectors. We seek to
partner early with exceptional
operators, bring to them the resources
of our global platform, and help them
scale efficiently within real operating
environments. In September, we announced
a partnership with Figure, a leading
developer of autonomous humanoid
robotics, committing $500 million of
equity capital. Our collaboration
combines Figer's technical innovation
with Brookfield's operating expertise
and portfolio of real assets, creating
an opportunity to accelerate the
advancement of the technology and
eventually deployment that will enhance
productivity across industries.
Physical AI and humanoid robotics
represent a large and transformative
opportunity that will require meaningful
capital, operating expertise, and
long-term commitment. By combining our
scale, capabilities, and global reach
with the innovation of leading partners,
this should position our business at the
forefront of one of the most significant
technological advances of the coming
decades.
Closing. We remain committed to
investing capital for you in highquality
assets that earn solid cash returns on
equity while emphasizing downside
protection for the capital employed. The
primary objective of the company
continues to be generating increased
cash flows on a per share basis and as a
result higher intrinsic value per share
over the longer term. Thank you for your
interest in Brookfield and please do not
hesitate [music] to contact any of us
should you have suggestions, questions,
comments or ideas you wish to share.
[music] Sincerely, Bruce Flatt, Chief
Executive Officer, November 13th, 2025.
>> [music]
>> cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements and
information.
All references to dollars are to US
dollars. This letter to shareholders
contains forward-looking information
within the meaning of Canadian
Provincial Securities Laws and
forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the US Securities Act of
1933. the US Securities Exchange Act of
1934, safe harbor provisions of the
United States Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and in
any applicable Canadian Securities
Regulations, collectively
forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in
nature, depend upon or refer to future
results, events, or conditions, and
include, but are not limited to,
statements which reflect management's
current estimates, beliefs, and
assumptions regarding the operations,
business, financial condition, expected
financial results, performance,
prospects, opportunities, priorities,
targets, goals, ongoing objectives,
strategies, capital management, and
outlook of Brookfield Corporation and
its subsidiaries. as well as the outlook
for North American and international
economies for the current fiscal year
and subsequent periods and which in turn
are based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current
conditions and expected future
developments as well as other factors
management believes are appropriate in
the circumstances. The estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions of Brookfield
Corporation are inherently subject to
significant business, economic,
competitive, and other uncertainties and
contingencies regarding future events
and as such are subject to change.
Forward-looking statements are typically
identified by words such as expect,
anticipate, believe, foresee, could,
estimate, goal, intend, plan, seek,
strive, will, may, and should, and
similar expressions. In particular, the
forward-looking statements contained in
this letter include statements referring
to the impact of current market or
economic conditions on our business, the
future state of the economy or the
securities market, the Castle Lake
acquisition, including its expected
impact on our business, the anticipated
allocation and deployment of our
capital, our liquidity and ability to
access and raise capital, our
fundraising targets, our target growth
objectives, and our target carried
interest.
Although Brookfield Corporation believes
that such forward-looking statements are
based upon reasonable estimates,
beliefs, and assumptions, actual results
may differ materially from the
forward-looking statements, factors that
could cause actual results to differ
materially from those contemplated or
implied by forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, one,
returns that are lower than target. Two,
the impact or unanticipated impact of
general economic, political, and market
factors in the countries in which we do
business. Three, the behavior of
financial markets, including
fluctuations in interest and foreign
exchange rates and heightened
inflationary pressures. Four, global
equity and capital markets and the
availability of equity and debt
financing and refinancing within these
markets. Five, strategic actions
including acquisitions and dispositions,
the ability to complete and effectively
integrate acquisitions into existing
operations and the ability to attain
expected benefits. Six, changes in
accounting policies and methods used to
report financial condition, including
uncertainties associated with critical
accounting assumptions and estimates.
Seven, the ability to appropriately
manage human capital. Eight, the effect
of applying future accounting changes.
Nine, business competition. 10.
Operational and reputational risks. 11.
Technological change. 12. Changes in
government regulation and legislation
within the countries in which we
operate. 13. Governmental investigations
and sanctions. 14. Litigation. 15.
Changes in tax laws. 16. Ability to
collect amounts owed. 17. Catastrophic
events such as earthquakes, hurricanes,
and epidemics pandemics. 18. The
possible impact of international
conflicts and other developments
including terrorist acts and cyber
terrorism. 19. The introduction,
withdrawal, success, and timing of
business initiatives and strategies. 20.
The failure of effective disclosure
controls and procedures and internal
controls over financial reporting and
other risks. 21. Health, safety, and
environmental risks. 22. The maintenance
of adequate insurance coverage. 23. The
existence of information barriers
between certain businesses within our
asset management operations. 24 risks
specific to our business segments
including asset management, wealth
solutions, renewable power and
transition, infrastructure, private
equity, real estate and corporate
activities, and 25 factors detailed from
time to time in our documents filed with
the securities regulators in Canada and
the United States. We caution that the
foregoing list of important factors that
may affect future results is not
exhaustive, and other factors could also
adversely affect future results. Readers
are urged to consider these risks as
well as other uncertainties, factors,
and assumptions carefully in evaluating
the forward-looking statements, and are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on
such forward-looking statements, which
are based only on information available
to us as of the date of this letter or
such other date specified herein, except
as required by law. Brookfield
Corporation undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any
forward-looking statements, whether
written or oral, that may be as a result
of new information, future events, or
otherwise.
Past performance is not indicative nor a
guarantee of future results. There can
be no assurance that comparable results
will be achieved in the future, that
future investments will be similar to
historic investments discussed herein,
that targeted returns, growth
objectives, diversification or asset
allocations will be met, or that an
investment strategy or investment
objectives will be achieved because of
economic conditions, the availability of
appropriate opportunities or otherwise.
Target returns and growth objectives set
forth in this letter are for
illustrative andformational purposes
only and have been presented based on
various assumptions made by Brookfield
Corporation in relation to the
investment strategies being pursued, any
of which may prove to be incorrect.
There can be no assurance that targeted
returns or growth objectives will be
achieved due to various risks,
uncertainties, and changes including
changes in economic, operational,
political, or other circumstances beyond
Brookfield Corporation's control. The
actual performance of the business could
differ materially from the target
returns and growth objectives set forth
herein. In addition, industry experts
may disagree with the assumptions used
in presenting the target returns and
growth objectives. No assurance,
representation or warranty is made by
any person that the target returns or
growth objectives will be achieved and
undue reliance should not be put on
them. Cautionary statement regarding the
use of nonIFRs measures. This letter to
shareholders contains references to
financial measures that are calculated
and presented using methodologies other
than in accordance with IFRS. These
financial measures which include
distributable earnings as defined below
its components and its per share
equivalent should not be considered as
the sole measure of our performance and
should not be considered in isolation
from or as a substitute for similar
financial measures calculated in
accordance with IFRS.
We caution readers that these nonFRS
financial measures or other financial
metrics are not standardized under IFRS
and may differ from the financial
measures or other financial metrics
disclosed by other businesses and as a
result may not be comparable to similar
measures presented by other issuers and
entities. We make reference to
distributable earnings, which refers to
the sum of distributable earnings from
our asset management business,
distributable operating earnings from
our insurance solutions business,
distributions received from our
ownership of investments, realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments, net of
preferred share dividends, and
equity-based compensation costs. We also
make reference to distributable earnings
before realizations which refers to
distributable earnings before realized
carried interest and disposition gains
from principal investments and net
operating income which refers to the
revenues from our operations less direct
expenses before the impact of
depreciation and amortization within our
real estate business. Our outlook for
growth in distributable earnings assumes
growth in fee related earnings and
realized carried interest in line with
our business plans which assume growth
in our fee bearing capital consistent
with our fundraising plans. capital
deployment expectations, maintaining the
fee rates we earn on fee bearing capital
and earning margins consistent with our
current margin. Actual results may vary
materially and are subject to market
conditions and other factors and risks
set out above. For more information on
noniffress measures and other financial
metrics, see Brookfield Corporation's Q1
2024 press release, which includes
reconciliations of these non-IFRs
financial measures to their most
directly comparable financial measures
calculated and presented in accordance
with IFRS.
