Ledger has just released this new hard
wallette and we're going to talk about it in this
video.  Hey there, I hope you're doing well
because today we're going to
talk about the Ledger Nano Gen 5, the new
hardware wallet from Ledger.  I'm going to
tell you everything you need to know about
this new hardware wallet, its
features, its advantages, but
also its disadvantages.  In addition to that,
Ledger made a few small announcements
and we'll talk about them at the beginning of the video.  You'll
see, it's very interesting.  But
before we begin, and as always
when I present a new
Wollette hardware, I would like to make a few
small clarifications.  First of all, Ledger did
not pay me at all to make
this video.  Let's be clear, they
'll discover this video at the same
time as you, and you'll see, I also have some
negative things to present.  However, they
sent me this hardware
wallet for free for the purposes of this video
and by the way, I really thank them
from the bottom of my heart because they
sent it to me as a preview and there were
very few of us in that situation.  So, a big
thank you to Ledger for their
trust.  And finally, the only way
I would actually make
money is if you decide to buy
a Ledger product through
my link that I will put in the
description and in the pinned comment.
A big thank you to everyone
who does this, it supports my work.
Okay, that was just a little bit of
transparency.  So
now we're going to quickly talk about
Ledger's announcements because there are a couple of
interesting things.  First of all, the
first announcement is that Ledger's software suite
will be renamed Ledger
Wallet, meaning it will no longer be called
Ledger Live.  And for the second
announcement, what you need to know is that
Ledger will use the term wallet less and less
to refer to its products.
Instead, they will likely use the
term "sign".  Well, that's perfectly
consistent with what
their products actually are, right?  And that's why
Ledger is doing this.
For what ?  Because today, when
we talk about wallets, we inevitably have this
image of the wallet in which we will
store our cryptocurrencies.  Except that's
not how it works.  In
reality, cryptocurrencies remain on the
blockchain.  But what about our wallet
?  He signs
transactions in order to move our
cryptocurrencies and perform certain operations.
So in the end, Ledgers wants to be more
consistent in this regard.  So
now, is everyone going to
follow this?  I'm not so sure.
By the way, I'm curious to know
your opinion.  Leave it in the comments.  And
finally, the third
important announcement will inevitably concern this
new Signer.  You'll have understood.  So
what does this Nano GN5 have under the
hood and what does it allow us to
do?  Well, to present it to you in a
more natural way, I'm going to
compare it a lot with the flexed one on this
channel because in the end they are quite similar
.  So to
put it simply in one
sentence, the Nano Gen 5 is a
less pretty but also cheaper Flex.  Yes,
because it costs €70
less, and that's quite a
saving.  So when we see
this price difference, we can
ask ourselves, what does it lack
compared to the Flex?  And in reality, it has
almost the same features.
That is to say, we will find a
2.8-inch screen like the Flex.  We'll
see the return of NFC and Bluetooth.  We will
also find the same autonomy of
10er.  The Ledger Recovery Key that I
also presented to you on this
YouTube channel will be provided free of charge.
It also has the same secure element
as the Nano S+, the flex and the stax.
So, by the way, that's something you
really need to understand with Ledger.
They make no concessions in terms
of security, meaning that the Ledger
Nano S+ will be just as secure as the STX.
So, there will still be some
small differences, right?  So, first of all,
the chassis will be made of plastic, right?
So it will be made of slightly less
premium materials, but there is also the screen which
is of lower quality.  That is to say,
yes, it has the same resolution but
not the same definition, meaning there are
slightly fewer shades of
grey than on the Flex.  So you can see that in
the photo I'm going to show you
.  I used the same
wallpaper for the flex.  and the nano Gen 5.
And you can see that there are a little less
detail on the new
Bolette hardware.  So the font
is also a little less pretty.
It's a little less rounded, isn't it, if
I can put it that way.  On the other hand, I
also find that it stands out better because
it has more contrast against
the white background of the screen.  Now, between
you and me, is this really going to
change how you use the
hardware wallet?  I'm asking you this
because, honestly, I don't care at all about having a
slightly prettier wallpaper
.  Another difference
with the Flex is that there is also no
audible beep.  That is to say, on the flex and
the stax, when we have certain
operations, we will have a small additional beep
.  So it's an
added convenience in terms of ease of use.  Now, will this
change your life?  Hey, I'm
asking you the question.  Honestly, I don't care
.  And finally, the
last difference I found, and
this is purely aesthetic, is that
you can see there is a small hole at the very
bottom of the hardware wallet.  So, it's not
for attaching to our keychain, but
on the contrary, it's made for putting
badges on to decorate our hardware
wallet.  So, they are available on
the Ledger website.  Honestly, I
think it's a bit expensive for what it is,
and I don't care at all about
decorating a hardware wallet.  On the contrary, I think
Ledger will
distribute these as promotional items for
events, but that's just speculation on
my part.  Time will tell if I'm
right.  So, another question we
could ask ourselves is, will
the box contain exactly the same
thing as the flex?  And the answer is
yes.  So I'll show you a picture of the
complete kit that's included in the box.
But basically, when you open it
, you'll find
the wallet first, as usual.
Next, you will find the Lederger
recovery.  So, let me clarify, this is very
important.  It's another way
to protect our portfolio.  Let's be clear, that doesn't
replace the good old phrase
.  And by the way,
if you look at the floor below, you have
a box with documentation, a
USBC to USBC cable, but we will
also find the cardboard sheets to write down
our site phrase.  So, regarding
the initialization of the hardware
wallet, I haven't been able to test that
simply because I received the
hardware wallet as a preview and I
used it.  in a rather
developer-oriented mode on Ledger Life.  So, I have
n't used it in a typical way
yet.  So what I
propose is that I'm going to make
another video with this hardware wallet
to show you how to set it up,
but this time from a smartphone.
It doesn't change anything compared to the Flex, but
I'll do it on my smartphone.  This way
, people who want to use
their harddoir wallette mainly
from a smartphone will be able to discover
how it works.  As for the advantages
and disadvantages, what
can I say about this sign
?  So, as usual, we'll start with
the advantages.  So the first one, I would
simply say, well, it's his
screen.  And yes, a touchscreen
is definitely a real convenience.  This is
really something that will change
the way we use a
hard wallette, I think.  So we'll have
better visibility on the
transactions we're going to sign, right?  I am
thinking especially of people who already have
vision problems on small
screens like the Nano X or the Nano S+.
But also more generally,
when you're going to do lots and lots of
transactions during the day, it gets a
little annoying navigating on the
buttons of the Nano S+ after a while.
Whereas here, with this type of screen, well,
it immediately appears much
clearer.  And I'll also add a small
feature that
Ledger touchscreens have: when you
sign transactions on DeFi, for
example, make a swap, you also have
the transaction check option that you can
activate, and in fact you can simulate
the transaction, meaning that your
hardware wallet will generate a QR code
that you can scan with your
phone and see what
the transaction will do to you.  And we're going to tell you, "
Watch out, this stinks a little bit, you're
on a slightly dubious contract."
So this is an extra security feature
offered by Ledger, and it can be really
nice, especially for beginners.   The
second advantage of signing this contract
is simply its price.  And yes,
believe it or not, it costs €180.  So it's going to
be a price for some people
and we'll come back to that, but I still think that this is
much more
affordable than a Flex and definitely even more so than a
Stax.  Besides, that Stax one
, I don't recommend it
precisely because of its price.  It's a very
good wallet, but frankly, for what it
offers, I find it overpriced
.  Whereas this one, at €180, I
honestly think is very good value for money
.
Another advantage I found is
the Ledger ecosystem.  First of all,
French is available.  So
people who are allergic to
English will find what they're looking for
.  And above all because the
Ledger Wallet software suite, formerly
Ledger Live, is very practical.
It's an all-in-one application that will
allow you to do just about
anything.  So for the most
advanced people, it may be a little
limited after a while, but
for people at a beginner
or even intermediate level, it also offers a
much
safer environment.  And I think that's something we don't emphasize enough
.  That is to say,
I found that there are many
people who, when they go on the
DeFine, they sign their
transactions, they say to themselves "Yeah,
OK, it's to do a swap," but they do
n't really look at what they are signing, and in the
end, some of them end up having
their wallets slashed.  So, some people
will say, "Well, it serves her right
, she'll be careful."
But on the other hand, Ledgers don't really like
seeing that either.  And
they have developed an ecosystem that
allows for much better
visibility on what you sign and that
avoids all these
blind transactions.  So, I
made a video on the subject, I invite you
to go and see it if you want more
details, but basically for
beginners, it's better to stick with
Ledger Live.  Another advantage, and in my
opinion, I'm going to have people who
will completely disagree with me on this,
is regarding the security of Hard
Warte Ledgers.  They are highly regarded
in this field.  So, I know some
people are going to tell me "Well, that's
not true at all, they've already been
hacked, their database has been compromised and
so on."  So, I'll just ask those people if it was
the hardware wallets that were hacked,
huh?  Because what we're talking about here, right?
Securing our
cryptos.  At no point did these products have
a vulnerability that was
exploited, and that's what you need to
understand.  So yes, Ledgers, they
totally messed up on this very
specific aspect and they know it very
well too, believe me.  Now we
also need to put things back into perspective
and understand that when we talk
about securing our cryptos, we are talking about
hardware wallets and currently
Ledger hardware wallets have
never been hacked.  So what you
also need to know is that Ledgers
are the big leaders, they've been around
for 10 years and everyone wants to take
them down.  So naturally, they
have a Hard wallet that is among the
most tried and tested, if not the most tried and tested on
the market.  And finally, one thing should not be forgotten
: Ledger probably has the
most competent team for developing
hardware among all other
manufacturers.  Hey, they're all top-notch
.  I invite you once again to
go and type Ledger Donjon on YouTube and
you will see the technical profiles and the
equipment they have available.  And
finally, one last little advantage
I found with this hardware wallet
is that the plastic rim around
the screen is a
little thicker, even much thicker than
on the Flex.  And I think that in
some falls, it will be better protected
than the flex.  Now, this is where I
will allow myself to transition to
the disadvantage section.  It's not
Vergori, mind you.  That is to say,
I think The Signer will be
much more susceptible to scratches and
direct impact on the screen than the Flex.
So that's something we also need to be careful about.  I
think we'll have to take a
little more care of it than the Flex, even though we
normally take care of it because it's still
relatively expensive.   The
second drawback I noticed
is the side button for
locking and unlocking the device.
I don't find it very pleasant.  You have to
force it a little bit and honestly, I don't
think it looks very Cali.
Now, I think it's pretty
solid, you know, let's not get carried away.
But here's the thing, I don't find it very
pleasant compared to the Flex and the Stax, for
example.  Another drawback, which
was also one of my advantages,
was simply its price.
So yes, I said it was very
good value for money, but I still think
this Hardware Wallet will be
too expensive for quite a few people.
In other words, if your goal is
just to hold Bitcoin for the long
term, a little bit of land and
occasionally make a trade on
DeFi every 6 months, then I think an
AnOS Plus will be more than
enough.  There's no point in buying
more.  On the contrary, keep the
price difference you would have spent to buy more
Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies
or to treat yourself; it will be much more
profitable for you.  Honestly, I prefer
to be honest about it because I think
getting this hardware wallet would be
overkill for quite a few
people.  For me, the Nano S+ will be
more than enough for at least 50%
of crypto users.  And finally, the
last drawback I wanted to
highlight with this Signer is
that if you look a little
closer, it doesn't look very Ledger-like.  In
reality, we are used to having
quite beautiful products made with
aluminum.  So, I'm not saying it's
ugly either, but it's true that it's
the least attractive Ledger design.
Now, is that what
you want again?  Do you want to have a
beautiful product?  Well then, in that case,
go for the flex or the stax.  But
otherwise, honestly, this one will do just fine
.  And that, in fact
, is my conclusion
regarding this signature.  For me, it's
excellent value for money.  If
I were to buy a
wallet today, it would probably be this one
or the Flex.  For people who do
a little bit of crypto, who
occasionally trade DeFi and
who just want to hold,
the Nano S+ will be more than
enough.  Don't overthink it.
So there is also one last thing
I wanted to point out, which is that I
think this new Signer will
eventually replace the Ledger Nano X.  When you
think about it, the Ledger Nano X is the
only hardware wallet now that has a
different security feature than an
older generation.  So for me, it
will always be updated.  I hope
Ledger will actually do it because this is
n't a memory issue.  He has
everything he needs stored in his memory, right?  I
even believe it has a
superior memory compared to the new
secure elements.  It's just that it's a
little less efficient and so,
naturally, I think Ledger
will withdraw it and it's not for nothing that
this hardware wallet is positioned in roughly
the same price range.
So if you were ever planning to buy a
Ledger Nano X, I would
really recommend that you go for this one instead
.  I think that will be more
consistent.  So once again, for
those who are interested in
Ledger products, I put my link
in the description and in the
pinned comment.  A big thank you to everyone
who uses this service.  And
if you want to learn more about
the Nano S+ and the Flex, I have these two
videos to recommend.  I'll tell you everything you need to
know about these clever Willette.
