When your attention isn't divided, your
decisions get sharper.
Your execution gets smoother. It gets
faster.
If you're going to go after something,
you might as well go after something
[ __ ] huge. You have to give up the
good for the great. There's nothing
wrong with that. It will feel weird, and
the people around you will probably tell
you you're being crazy. Tell them, "I'm
young, and I want more for myself, and
my family, and my team, and my company."
Hello. My name's Greg LaVecchia. I am
the co-founder and CEO of Bloom.
I have been for about 8 years now. I've
been in entrepreneurship, or an
entrepreneur, for about a decade now.
This year, Bloom will sell over a
quarter billion cans of beverages with a
Bloom trademark on the can. That is
rounding down quite a bit. And
I co-founded the company with my wife. 8
years ago, I started entrepreneurship
with my wife out of our college dorm
room a decade ago. And turning 31
yesterday, I now have a son, I'm
married, I'm sitting in the backyard of
our
vacation home here in Aspen, Colorado.
I reside generally in Austin, Texas. And
there are a lot of lessons that I have
learned in the last 10 years, or
throughout my 20s, that if I had learned
them earlier in my 20s, I would be even
further ahead than I am today. And if
there's one thing that I would love to
do with my time in my 30s, it is pass
down the wisdom that I have acquired
through
receiving scars on my body, receding
hairline, gray hairs, wrinkles on my
face, sleepless nights. If I can save
some of y'all the tribulations that had
to come with that, and just give you the
lessons ahead of time,
I
would love to see the next generation
achieve the things that I have achieved
even faster than I have. And that is how
I will pass down the torch to the future
generation of entrepreneurs. I have
about three lessons, or I don't know how
many I have, a few lessons that I want
to go through today. Hopefully, I will
establish some value for you guys. You
know, your 20s are a wild year, cuz you
might not know if you're headed in the
right direction. You might feel like you
are headed in a direction fast, but it
might be the wrong way. You might have
no idea what you're up to. And I don't
even know if all of these lessons will
be something that you can apply today,
but I hope that you can remember them,
and they will pop up
when it when a scenario presents itself
in your universe. It might be tomorrow,
it might be in a year, might be in 3
years. And you will remember this lesson
and say, "Wait,
Greg told me this may happen, and now I
know how to react." So, let's get into
it. This is the advice
that I would give myself if I was in my
20s now, and I believe I would be
further along than I am today if I heard
this in my early 20s.
One of the biggest advantages that I had
in my 20s was recognizing when it was
time to level up. And the simplest
analogy that I can give to this is when
we grow up playing video games like a
Grand Theft Auto, and you would unlock
pieces of the map, there were certain
kids who just loved continuing to play
the game when they beat the game. That's
not how you should play life. Once you
beat a game, you should move on to a
more challenging, higher risk, higher
reward game next.
You will have lessons from the previous
game that you played that you will have
to apply to the more challenging game
that you are now going to face. And they
are necessary to level up one by one.
You will not become the man that you
want to be in the speed of pace that you
want to become that man if you do not
regularly level up the battlefield that
you are playing in. I have seen many
entrepreneurs stick to the venture that
they found out of college, or out of
high school, or whenever they started
their entrepreneurship journey.
They get to a place where they're making
some okay money, it's going fine, and
they just stick doing that. And that's
fine for them. But if your goals are to
push yourselves to the limits, to figure
out what are you capable of, how big can
you make this? If you truly believe that
you want to make your life a moonshot,
and sit down at 75 years old and say,
"Shit, I [ __ ] did it." Then you
should look in the mirror every 6
months, and not even be able to
recognize the man looking back at you.
And so, how that looked in my career
is Mari and I started a brand called
Mari Fitness when we were still in
college. She had dropped out of college,
I was finishing my degree, graduated
college with a 2.6.
We weren't exactly academics, we didn't
have any money to start with, so we
started with a business that cost no
money to start, which was selling
instant download PDFs.
We scaled that business to a couple
million bucks a year, and we used it to
over-provide value for our community.
And then our first physical product,
once we had some saved up money, was the
booty band. Everyone wanted a giant ass
in 2018, or whatever year it was. And
so, my whole life was working with
Pakistan, or Pakistani manufacturers,
and we sold millions of booty bands.
Maybe a million. A million booty bands,
but they're 20 bucks a pop, so we had a
hell of a booty band business. And we
took everything we learned from the PDF
business, and applied that to the
physical product business, but now
learned about physical products supply
chain.
At that point, we were starting to gain
validation with our consumers, and our
community asked us to provide
supplements for them. They said, "You
guys make great products. I would love
to try some supplements from you guys,
cuz there's nothing else that I'm
enjoying." So, we launched Bloom. We
launched Bloom with a pre-workout for
women who lifted weights, and were
trying to lose body fat, or you know,
lose lose weight. That business was
great, but needless to say, there's
never really been
a $100 million female pre-workout
business. There's there's a low ceiling
to the female pre-workout business. And
so, once we maxed out But it's a higher
ceiling than booty bands. So, once we
maxed out that business, we went to the
recovery powders, and then we went to
the greens powder. So, we unlocked a
whole new possible total addressable
market with the greens powder, and we
bootstrapped that to $180 million.
And then, of course, we said, "You know,
I don't think there's much more space
left in this greens business.
We kind of beat the game. We've learned
so much from this game, and our
community has gained so much trust in us
because of how much value we've provided
through this product."
So, we did the [ __ ] unthinkable, and
we said, "We're going to launch an
energy drink, and go after the [ __ ]
Monsters, and Red Bulls, and Celsiuses
of the world." And we applied everything
we had learned, and everything that we
didn't learn, we brought in strategic
partners. And now, we have energy drinks
on Dr. Pepper trucks in 70,000 doors in
the country. And of course, we also have
this soda in about 40,000 doors in the
country. So,
it's easy for me to sit here today, and
sip this Shirley Temple in front of you,
and say,
"This is where I'm at now." But the
reality is is everything that has gone
into this product, and everything that
has gone into the, you know, half a
billion dollar energy drink brand that
we have today, were lessons that we had
learned from the PDFs, the booty bands,
the greens powder, the pre-workouts. And
it was an accumulation of all of that
knowledge to become
the beasts that could create this very
competitive beverage company.
It would have been very easy and
comfortable for us to stay just selling
booty bands, for us to stay just selling
greens powders. There's one crucial
point that I potentially admitted from
that, which is when you move on to the
next challenging game,
or the larger challenge of a game,
you have to leave the easier game
behind.
Two important points there. Number one,
if you time it properly, and you say,
you know, "We're approaching the top of
this bubble. We're approaching the top
of this bell curve."
If you switch to the next game,
the previous game, well, on a revenue
level, right? The previous business will
not just fall apart. You can give it 5%
of your time, keep it afloat, put it on
autopilot, and put 95% of your time into
the next thing. And then, a couple
months in, once you have some traction,
then you put 100% of your time into that
next thing. And yes, you may be giving
up the good for the great. We no longer
have a booty band business. I don't
[ __ ] care. The energy drink business
does more in a day than that booty bit
band business did in a week. Truly, it
is it is 75 times the size of what that
booty band business could have ever
been. You have to give up the good for
the great. There's nothing wrong with
that. It will feel weird, and the people
around you will probably tell you you're
being crazy. Why would you give up such
a good thing that you have? Tell them,
"I'm young, and I want more for myself,
and my family, and my team, and my
community." That's what you tell them.
Or you don't say anything, you just
[ __ ] leave. Anyway.
This leads me to my next lesson.
Focus is king, baby. Remove the noise.
When I said you level up to the next
When I said you level up to the next
challenge, and you need to
give up the good for the great, and
forget the last challenge,
that's because of focus. And let's break
that down a little bit. Everyone that I
have met in my life
who has done exceptional things, or any
point in my life
in the last 12 years of my journey,
who when I am at my peak performance of
growth, revenue, income, community
value, whatever it may be,
it is during times where I'm at a 100%
focus. I am so anti-diverse
portfolio.
I know our parents, the older
generation, Warren Buffett's of the
world, college professors, high school
teachers, whatever the hell they are,
they tell you to have a diverse
portfolio to diminish risk.
Nobody ever got highly successful in a
short period of time, right? This is a
This is a
a high eight-figure home.
I don't know anyone who's 31 that has a
high eight-figure home that had a
[ __ ] diversified portfolio. I've
never heard of that in in my life.
Everyone who I have met that has done
incredible things in a short period of
time put 100% of their mind share in
that thing. Everything I think about for
the last 7 years is Bloom. I don't think
about other businesses, I don't think
about my stock market plays, I don't
think about real estate. I let other
people handle those things. I am 100%
invested in this brand and that's why we
are winning. That's why we are climbing
the ladder at least, right? And I
remember this like it was yesterday.
My best friend Leo,
who's now the president of Bloom, my
son's middle name is Leo, he's he's my
best friend
since high school.
He was selling biotech deals on Wall
Street to super high net worth
individuals and he was calling thousands
of them a day. And one day I was like,
"Leo,
what's something in common that you see
amongst these super high net worth
individuals who are like, you know,
40-ish? Like y'all young enough where it
was really impressive."
He said, "Bro,
they're all just all in all the time.
Like none of them have diversified stock
portfolios like we've been told to do
our whole life.
They're savages. They do a ton of
diligence around one deal and they bet
the [ __ ] house. And the thing that
happens when you bet the house is the
reward is tremendous. And you can take
that risk when you are young. Maybe you
can't when you're 50 because you can't
recover after you're 50, right? Maybe.
But in your 20s, who gives a [ __ ] if you
start back at zero?
Who gives a [ __ ] I've started back from
zero a few times, but if I never went
all in as many times as I did when I was
right, I would never have Bloom the size
that it is today. You have to go all in
on things and I don't just mean through
your capital allocation. I mean through
your mind share. You are your most
important asset.
You are your most powerful asset. Your
mind share is your most important
portfolio that you organize. And you
need to give 100% of that to the most
valuable thing that you are working on.
That's how you will leverage your
resources for the most reward of
anything else. And you know, read the
room. When it's time to move on, it's
time to move on. Sometimes bets don't
work out. I mean, I've had products that
completely [ __ ] flop. I move on. I'm
onto the next thing. Every day starts at
zero. You just move on the next day.
When your attention isn't divided, your
decisions get sharper.
Your execution gets smoother. It gets
faster.
And everyone that you partner with,
whether it's me partnering with Walmart,
whether it's my team who I partner with,
whether it's my distributors like Dr.
Pepper,
they see it in me. They see it in my
soul. You can't fake this [ __ ] People
want to partner with people who are 100%
committed. They know I'm rock solid
focused. And nothing can nothing can
hurt that. Nothing can take that away. I
[ __ ] blinders on. And if you can keep
blinders on
for a decade straight, you will do what
takes most people the entire life, if
not more. The progress compounds like
nobody can ever tell you because they
don't want to show you this [ __ ] in the
textbooks. They want to show you to be
diversified. They want to show you to be
low risk. But what they don't tell you
is low risk is low reward. And this
video is about high reward in your 20s.
This next point is probably my favorite
of all of them. I guess this is lesson
three. It may sound cheesy, but stay
ready so you don't need to get ready.
The reason you need to stay ready so you
don't need to get ready is because the
greatest opportunities in my life have
been things that were impossible to plan
for. And so many people think that you
should plan for two, four, five years
out, even a decade out.
If you're trying to move at the speed of
culture and you're a proper entrepreneur
who is responding to cultural macro
movements, you can't plan for these
things. You just need to stay ready.
Every day, you can't be hungover. You
can't be having [ __ ] relationship
problems. You can't be out of shape. You
can't be cognitively out of shape. You
can't miss a day at the office. That's
what staying ready so you don't need to
get ready means. And what happens when
you do that, I'll tell you. COVID hit.
It was 2020. Mari and I were living in
Brooklyn. Bloom was just kind of
starting. We launched Bloom in 2019.
Nobody knew how to react and everyone we
were competing with had large corporate
offices that were just completely shut
down. No one could even respond to it if
they wanted. Bloom responded. We doubled
down on protein. Everybody was baking
protein goods at home. We doubled down
on gut health and overall wellness
through our greens powder. And we
[ __ ] blasted these products around
the country through established
e-commerce channels like Shopify and
Amazon and we were not changed to just
brick and mortar retailers. So we stayed
ready for any scenario with our sales
channels, with our products portfolio.
And when COVID hit and we saw how
culture was responding, we were able to
sell protein for at home baking and
greens for at home wellness and we rode
those to the moon before any other
business that we were competing with
even knew how to respond. They were
still just trying to figure out how to
set up work from home with Zoom calls,
right? Number two, TikTok. TikTok came
out of nowhere. It was a social media
channel that no one had even heard of.
Kids were just [ __ ] dancing on it. We
took a bet. We said, "We're ready for a
new social media channel. We get
Instagram. We get YouTube. We get
Snapchat. What's the [ __ ] difference?
Let's give this a shot." So we built
what is without today the largest
in-house influencer marketing agency
inside the walls of Bloom in our LA
headquarters and our Austin-based
headquarters.
And we have
12 billion views across our influencer
program. Maybe it's more at this point
and it's definitely more at this point.
That was just the last time I checked.
[ __ ] We were able to accumulate such a
cultural impact through 12 billion plus
views because we were ready to hop onto
a new social media channel. We didn't
need to move at a at a corporate
sluggish rate and just continue to post
on [ __ ] Facebook or whatever social
medias were getting antiquated at that
point. We were ready. And when new
opportunities pop up, you jump on them.
And there's been other social media
channels that we, you know, give the
time of day and they don't work out and
then we move on to the next, but getting
early on TikTok was substantial for our
business. Opportunity three that we
could not have planned for. GLP-1s.
Half the [ __ ] country is taking these
things and their consumer behavior is
completely different and a lot of these
people are in the Bloom community.
We have incredibly tasting low-calorie
products that are pro gut health,
something that people taking GLP-1s need
to consume. I mean, this is a
pharmaceutical intervention that nobody
could have possibly prepared for.
Completely demolished culture and
consumer demands and palate trends. An
amazing tasting energy drink. Caffeine
is one of the most important products
for somebody tired not eating enough
calories, right? Our protein products.
We made a clear protein once we realized
how much this was affecting culture and
their macronutrient needs have
completely changed. They're diminishing
away with a lack of appetite. They need
protein. We launched a clear protein. I
mean, I think we just broke like a
TikTok Shop record with clear protein.
It's completely demolishing the Target
shelves right now. You think a
corporation can respond to GLP-1 that
fast? No. That's your job as someone in
your 20s, as a young man who's an
entrepreneur. You need to be fast and
respond to these cultural movements.
Number four, TikTok Shop. Very different
than TikTok, by the way. Two very
different cultural movements. TikTok
Shop is a brand new marketplace that
came out of nowhere like two years ago.
Pepsi, Coke, Dr. Pepper, Mountain Dew,
none of them are even on there still. I
sell soda on TikTok Shop. It's [ __ ]
ripping. I think we've sold 14,000 cans
of our Shirley Temple energy drink. It's
only been on there for Sorry, cases, not
cans. Cases, that's like 12 12 cans per
case. 14,000 cases of our Shirley Temple
energy drink. Hasn't even launched in
retailers yet. I bet you Red Bull's not
on [ __ ] TikTok Shop. We're ready.
We were ready to hop on that
marketplace. I flew to their LA
headquarters over at TikTok Shop and we
did [ __ ] business because we were
ready. We stayed ready. In conclusion,
instead of trying to map out the next
three, five, 10 years of your life, I
have found it far more valuable to just
stay ready for what life throws at me
across the next three, five, 10 years.
And all that means is staying
cognitively, physically, emotionally,
socially smart,
ready, and capable. Honestly, I would
say lesson three is two lessons. I would
say it's it's it's lesson three and
lesson four.
Stay ready so you don't need to get
ready is frankly how I think of
discipline. Obviously, discipline is the
greatest form of self-respect.
If you're not a disciplined person, I
don't know what to tell you. You should
probably change videos.
But if you're open to changing,
I would highly recommend it. Being a
disciplined person who is able to show
up more days in a row than anybody else
has increased my chances of luck.
It has increased my chances of being
prepared for whatever the universe
throws at us, whatever opportunities
present themselves. And when you receive
people who go, "Oh, they just launched a
business in 2018 when Meta ads were
cheap. Oh, they just launched their
business early on TikTok. Oh, they just,
you know, blew up because of GLP-1s."
What the [ __ ] kind of victim mentality
is that? Every year, there's
opportunities that can be the thing
people say that about you because you
were ready. The only victim mentality
that people should be saying is it,
"Fuck, I wasn't ready." And that's on
you, homie. That's on you if you're not
ready. And you're not ready if you're
not disciplined. So lesson number four
is just master discipline. And it takes
time.
I wasn't as disciplined as I am today
when I was 22, 25, or 27. Again, we
level up completely every six months.
Six months ago, I was less disciplined
than I am today. You're born with the
hand that you are dealt. Shaq is born at
7 ft or whatever the [ __ ] he is. Some
people are born with money. Some people
are born with, you know, whatever
attributes they can try to wield as
their highest wielding tool. There are
things that you can do to control your
luck.
You can be in the rooms. You can shake
the right hands. You can be in the right
states. You can stay ready so you don't
have to get ready. The amount of times
that I have
organized meetings with
powerful people by just pretending I
happened to be in town when I knew they
happened to be in town. You want to do
business with Walmart and the buyers of
Walmart are walking around a trade show
happening in California, go to that
trade show. If you're looking for a
top-tier marketers and you know that
there's a marketing convention in New
York City, just book the plane ticket.
If you have no money,
just stay at a [ __ ] hostel. I don't
care. Be in the room.
By the way, speaking of location and
geographic luck,
Mari and I moved five times in five
years. We went from Philadelphia to New
York to LA. We launched Bloom and Bold
before all of that. And then now we're
in Austin, Texas. We moved five times in
five years because we were controlling
our luck and making sure we were in the
city in the country that provided our
business and and careers and therefore
the output to our community with the
most value as possible. When we were
building an influencer program, it made
the most sense to be in LA. When we were
launching a beverage business and we
partnered with Dr. Pepper who's in Texas
and Nutrabolt who's in Austin, Texas, we
moved to Texas. We increased our chances
of better luck. This isn't rocket
science.
Move out of your hometown. That is the
easiest way to increase your luck.
Surround yourself with people who keep
you out of trouble. Surround yourself
with people who motivate you and inspire
you. Never find yourself as being a
shark in a pond. That is the worst way
to hurt your luck. If you are a shark in
a pond to the friends that you hang out
with, if you are a shark in the pond to
the city that you live in, if you are a
shark in the pond to the media that you
consume, if you're watching some [ __ ]
loser ass media on social media while
you doom scroll, that is the pond that
you are swimming in.
That will decrease your chances of luck.
All right, lesson number six or seven or
whatever the [ __ ] we are.
JJ's going to hit me for saying that.
JJ's
runs my media team.
He's the [ __ ] One of the worst pieces
of advice that I hear told to people in
their 20s is to move in silence. I think
privacy is a beautiful thing. There are
things that are sacred to me that I do
not share with the world.
That said, your business,
I am a massive believer in building in
public.
If a tree falls in a forest and no one's
around to hear it, does anyone hear that
it fell? I don't [ __ ] know, but I
know that if you're building something
special or believe that you're building
something special,
you will get very frustrated at the lack
of attention and status that you receive
if you do not build in public.
And I'm not talking about your ego when
I say that. I'm talking about the
opportunities that present themselves
going back to controlling your luck. The
opportunities that present yourselves if
you let people know what you're working
on. We have always been very loud on
social media about our business
achievements. When we, you know, hit
certain metrics on Amazon, when we serve
250 million consumers, when we are
number one at Target or break a record
at Walmart or
get a get a get a number one seller on
Instacart. I don't care what it is.
Share this stuff. This will attract
talent that
is looking for the next big thing. It
will attract partners that are looking
for the next big thing. It will attract
retailers that are looking for the next
big thing or potentially strategic
acquirers or investors that are looking
for the next big thing. If there is
almost no disservice and only upside
that I have found to building in public
on a relatively intimate level. And one
of the worst things is if you think
people are going to like steal your
ideas,
dude, no one will.
No one will steal your ideas.
I'm an open book with everything that I
do. And honestly, if someone were to
take some of the ideas, that's [ __ ]
awesome. They're not going to be as good
at executing them as you are. And there
it's going you're all you've already
used the idea, right? So now now now
give it off to somebody else.
The simplest way to say this is is is it
opens doors. If you are building in
public, you will notice that doors open.
You get invited to rooms that you would
not have been invited to if you were not
making it known what you were building.
And by the way, it's an incredible way
to build a community around a brand. And
if you're trying to build a brand and
not to sell a product, one of the
coolest ways is to bring your community
along for the ride. If you bring your
community along for the ride, they will
know who they are supporting. They will
know what they are supporting. They will
know the brand that they are supporting
and why. And we have been so open over
the last decade about the businesses
that we run, whether it's before Bloom
or during Bloom or even up until today,
people root for us. And it's incredible
feeling, right? Like it's fulfilling.
It's attracted talent. It's attracted
deals. And it lets people be part of
what you're doing, which is just what's
more special than that. This is a lonely
game already, entrepreneurship. Why
would you make it even lonelier? Lesson
number eight. You don't need to recreate
the wheel. A lot of people think that
they need to come up with a completely
new and original idea in order to start
a business or release a product. And the
reality is is I've never done that.
We were not the first better for you
soda. We were not the first energy
drink. We were not the first booty band.
We were not the first fitness guide. We
were not the first greens powder.
In fact,
we were a few we were a little late to
those things. I love being late to the
party. Because what happens is if you
enter an existing category and instead
of recreating the wheel, you just take
the wheel that already exists and you
make yours 10 times better, there's so
much less education that you need to
fund in your marketing practices. And
that is how you will create a healthy,
profitable, efficient business. Right?
You don't want to spend all of your
money explaining what a product is.
There's a great reason why we put our
soda into a soda can that Coca-Cola
uses. I didn't want to have to change
cultural habits with my product. I
didn't want to recreate the wheel and
put this soda in a [ __ ] milk carton.
That would be weird even if it would be
really hilarious. I wouldn't do that
because you don't want to recreate the
wheel.
I love entering existing categories. It
has allowed us to be profitable every
single day for the last 10 years. And it
has allowed us to take existing products
and just make them better. That is what
people want.
And that is what I have found to be a
really great way to operate as an
entrepreneur. Lesson number nine-ish.
Connect the dots.
This is this is awesome. And this is
honestly going back to the whole genesis
of the idea behind this video. You will
learn things throughout your journey
that you need to note. And you will find
that you will use the learnings from
every chapter of your journey in future
chapters. So going back to the story I
told previously, crisp apple and glacier
crush were our top selling pre-workout
flavors six, seven years ago. Now it's
our number one selling energy drink
flavors. There are so many negotiations
that I had to go through when our
businesses were small. And through those
negotiations, I learned the lessons
about negotiating that I was able to
apply to
multi-hundred million dollar
negotiations that I've done in the last
two years. Because life is learned in
the arena, you need to make sure that as
you are leveling up to each game that
you are playing and each new challenge
that you are approaching, you are
bringing the lessons from the previous
game that you played. Every lesson
compounds. Every experience compounds.
Every handshake compounds. If something
feels right, it is worth your time. And
what I mean by that is I have had
experiences where I meet somebody or I
go to a trade show or I go to a
marketing event or I go to a pitch and
it feels like nothing comes out of it in
the short in the short time.
But
six months later, a year later,
that person will follow up. And it was
worth my time then. I'll go into my last
lesson as the sun sets. This is a
beautiful evening right here.
Oh, my cigar went out. This will really
be my last lesson cuz I don't want to
light this again. Moonshots only. If
there's one lesson that you take away
from this video, it's this last lesson
that I go over now and it's moonshots
only. And what I can teach you so you
don't need to learn this the hard way
is that
a small venture
will take the same amount of time
and the same amount of resources as a
large venture.
And what I mean by that is I know people
who have $100,000 a year businesses,
million dollar a year businesses, 10,
100, billion dollar a year businesses.
We're kind of all the same amount of
stressed. We're kind of all have the
same amount of gray hairs. We have the
same amount of sleepless nights.
We have the same amount of [ __ ] that
we need to put up with.
If you're going to go after something,
you might as well go after something
[ __ ] huge. Even today with Bloom,
I'll just, you know, try to tell
my perspective or my point of view of
all of this. My team knows that we won't
go after something that isn't
potentially a $100 million opportunity.
Because we have learned that going after
$10 million opportunities takes almost
the same amount of effort as the $100
million opportunity. That's kind of
crazy to think about, right? But it that
that is the perfect example of how
a moonshot takes the same amount of
resources as a small shot. So you might
as well just go after the [ __ ]
moonshot. Apply those examples to
whatever it is for your journey. But I'm
telling you right now, you might as well
take the [ __ ] moonshot because
chances are it's honestly the same
amount of risk. It's the same amount of
chance of success. That's what I have
found personally. Moonshots only is how
I'm approaching my 30s. It's how I
approached a lot of my 20s. And I have
never regretted going that way. The sun
is properly setting.
If you're serious about leveling up your
20s,
this is what it takes.
It takes somebody who does not recognize
themselves in the mirror every six
months. Every six months you should look
at yourself in the mirror and not
recognize the man looking back. You will
find yourself leveling up at a rapid,
rapid pace. And if you are sensing even
the approach to a plateau, it is time to
level up. It is time to find a new,
larger challenge. A larger market to go
after. A larger business to go after. A
larger goal to go after. It means
putting yourself in rooms that you
aren't ready to be in. It means putting
yourself into challenges that you aren't
ready to be in. It means maybe going
against
the advice that you're getting from your
close circle or close family around you.
I look forward to making more videos
like this. I am so passionate about how
much entrepreneurship has set up my
family and my team and the community
that we've provided for over the years
in ways that I could never have
imagined. In ways that society never
told me that somebody like myself would
be capable of doing. And I just wish
that for so many of the viewers watching
this now.
Your life starts changing the second you
start taking action. Stop planning. You
know what to do.
My name is Greg Levekia. I'm the CEO and
co-founder of Bloom.
Thank you for watching.
Cool.
