[music]
Hello and welcome to the Insight by Otry
Capital. We've got a special episode
today live from the Oak Tree office in
Los Angeles covering the topic of the
liquid private credit convergence. You
can also watch the accompanying [music]
video to this podcast on the insight
section of the Oak Tree public website.
Now over to you, Armen. [music]
Hello, I'm Armen Penosian, co-CEO and
head of performing credit at Oakree.
Today I'm delighted to be joined by my
colleagues Ragav Khana and Danielle
Paulie. Ragav is co-portfolio manager in
our global private debt platform and
Danielle is assistant portfolio manager
in our multiasset credit platform. Today
we're going to be talking about a
critical topic and that is the
convergence of public and private credit
markets as distinctions blur between
direct lending on the one hand and
broadly syndicated loans on the other.
At Oakree, we've been investing in
public and private credit markets for
many years and are acutely aware of the
evolution of this market opportunity.
First to level set on the context and
the history of public and private
credit, Ragov, can you open and give us
a sense for the history of the private
side initially?
>> Sure. First, maybe to provide some
context, it'll be helpful to define what
is the private credit market. And there
are five large components to it. The
biggest one is direct lending, which is
40 to 50% of the market. Sometimes
confusingly it is used interchangeably
with private credit. It's the biggest
piece of private credit but not the only
one. And direct lending is a senior
product. So it's first lean or unit
trunch lending usually to corporates
mostly owned by private equity sponsors
sometimes owned by non-sponsor actors.
Then you have junior debt which is the
same concept but second leans mezzanine
debt preferred equity. You have of
course the distress debt and
opportunistic credit sleeve which is of
course more cyclical. And then a big and
growing area in the market is assetback
finance. This is interesting because it
is lending not to a corporate or a
corporate borrower unlike the other
categories I mentioned. You're lending
against a pool of assets such as loans,
receivables, equipment and capital
fleets. And most of these assets are
self- advertising. They pay off pretty
quickly. So one you diversify away from
corporate risk but second their duration
is much lower. Then lastly, I would say
another area of growth is NAF financing,
which is a type of fund level financing
where a manager such as a private equity
firm will go and raise financing against
the portfolio of their holdings. There
are other areas in private credit.
There's of course venture lending,
there's infer lending, but these are the
five biggest pieces. And look, the
market's grown a lot. Now, what opened
the door for private credit, I think we
all know, was the postGFC regulatory
changes which forced banks to retrench
from this space, especially in the below
IG space. But if you look at private
credit, the reason it's had staying
power is because it's produced a good
track record, strong results, low
correlation to public markets, and low
losses through multiple market cycles.
So at this point, it's not a novel
category. It's a core allocation for
most LPS and especially the larger and
more sophisticated LPs. So private
credit is a very broad term means a lot
of different things. Corporate direct
lending, assetbacked, opportunistic, and
very significant growth. a lot of
development in terms of the subasset
classes and a lot of acceptance on the
part of investors as to how it is a
permanent allocation in their
portfolios. Now let's compare that a
little bit to the public side
specifically to broadly syndicated loans
or high yield bonds. It'd be great to
understand Danielle from your
perspective how has that evolution
occurred?
>> Well, there's a really interesting
parallel there between private credit
and the growth and evolution in that
market and high yield bonds and
syndicated loans. both kind of started
as more niche strategies. They've become
mainstream. If you think about when Oak
Tree's founders first started their
investment activities in the late 70s,
early 80s, high yield bonds were
referred to as junk bonds. And that
market has developed with thousands of
borrowers, large companies, sometimes
enterprise values over a billion. These
are household names, and it's really
become a mainstream part of the liquid
credit markets. broadly syndicated
markets took root after in part because
of investor demand for floating rate
senior debt. That market is now a
similar size to high yield. And then the
CLLO market which buys loans and
securitize them has taken off in size.
So I think the market has just become so
broad and what we're seeing is the
symbiotic coexistence between these
different areas of credit as there's
just a broader continuum of financing
solutions available for borrowers. Yeah,
it's very clear that at this point
borrowers have a lot of choices. They
could go down the private credit context
and get a negotiated loan with a
bilateral counterparty. They could go
down a syndicated context with the
broadly syndicated loan where that
position is put away in dozens if not
hundreds of potential CLLOs or other
types of owners. So investors have the
opportunity at this point to have both
public and private credit in individual
or in collective portfolios or multiple
portfolios that are well diversified.
And you didn't really have that
opportunity in broadly syndicated loans
or high yield bonds 30 years ago. You
didn't have that opportunity in direct
lending maybe 10 or 15 years ago. But
today we've seen a pretty meaningful
expansion across the board and the
opportunity to develop diversified
portfolios.
Let's switch gears a little bit to the
borrower decisions or in the case of
private equity sponsors buying
companies. What influences their
decision to go on the public side and
the private side? Brav walk us through
how a sponsor or a borrower thinks about
the options there.
>> Sure. So you're absolutely right Armen
especially for the larger borrowers and
the larger sponsors. So think companies
that need a financing of a billion
dollars or more. Those sponsors
definitely see the markets the public
market and the private market as
complimentary and they will more likely
than not go into both markets and
they'll pick the market that gives them
what they need for that specific
financing. So, as an example, if they
care about speed and certainty of
execution, or if it's a more complex
credit than average, or if they need
some flexibility like a delayed draw
term loan, they will more likely go to
the private credit market. If they care
about a cost of financing, they will
more likely go to the broadly syndicated
loan market. The one trend that we're
seeing which is kind of interesting and
somewhat new is that we're now seeing
single name borrowers go from the BSL
market or the broadly syndicated market
to the private credit market and vice
versa. And this is happening now more
frequently. So in the first half of 2025
alone $28 billion of paper has migrated
from the BSL market to the private
credit market and vice versa. The other
trend we're seeing and again I expect
this trend to continue is hybrid capital
structures. So historically a borrower
would go to either the broadly
syndicated loan market and fill up their
financing needs only from that market or
go to the private credit market and do
the same. Now you're seeing hybrid
structures where you could have as an
example a broadly syndicated first lean
held by CLOS's and a privately placed
second lean or you could have a bank
held term loan A with a private credit
term loan B. So you're starting to see
the market converge around these options
and then mix and match these options
more and more. So if a manager has the
ability to traffic in both the liquid
and private credit markets, as you can
imagine, they just have a much wider
funnel of deals and hopefully quality
deals to pick from. It seems like a
private equity firm or a borrower that
is a repeat user of the markets would
have the benefit of having a highly
functioning public market and a highly
functioning private market to be able to
have options as their opportunity sets
change. I remember during the pandemic
period there was a period of time there
that the public market really seized up
because I think the CLLO buyers were not
really buying. There was a general
concern in that market which resulted in
eventually some loans that were
committed to by banks were hung for a
period of time. Meanwhile, the private
credit market that has a different
investor base, a different technical was
able to come in and provide an option or
a solution to those same private equity
firms doing deals. If you're a private
equity firm, you really want to have
options for both. And on that point,
Danielle, can you talk us through as
businesses may change a swapping back
and forth between broadly syndicated and
private? I mean, Raov mentioned, but
what are your views on that kind of
migration?
>> Well, I think that's exactly right. When
issuance in public market slows, that's
an opportunity for private credit
lending to pick up. You highlighted the
COVID period when banks were hung with a
significant amount of deals on their
balance sheets and private credit
lenders stepped in in some cases to save
the day. We also saw as macro volatility
picked up related to rates in 2022 and
2023 a number of deals get refinanced
into the private markets from the
syndicated markets. Now as pricing is
normalized last year we saw that trend
reverse and so syndicated markets
refinanced a lot of that paper at lower
rates and then today as Ragav mentioned
we're right it around par which I think
really speaks to the trend of
convergence that we're talking about
today. But I do think having those two
markets is going to lead to an overall
healthier market and a variety of ways
for companies to get financing even in
more challenging economic backdrops.
>> Great. Maybe switching gears a little
bit. Want to talk about the market
opportunity? Can we actually deploy this
capital that people are interested in
investing with managers in the credit
space? Is there enough going on? Sure.
It's actually quite interesting and
timely. A strategy consultant recently
came out with an estimate that to fund
all the AI related data centers that
have been planned. 7 trillion will be
needed globally through 2030. 4 trillion
on computing hardware, but that still
leaves trillions for real estate
development, power infrastructure and
the picks and shovels. I think data
center is obviously the capex story of
this decade. But I think it also
highlights an interesting transformation
that I think the western economies are
going through which is if you look back
at the previous decade. A lot of the
growth in GDP was driven by quote
unquote asset light sectors such as
financials, technology and healthcare.
For the next decade I suspect we'll see
growth in GDP driven by capex heavy
sectors. AI data centers is obviously a
big one, but you have an increase in
defense, you have reshoring, you have
the energy transition, you have all the
fiber and telecom capex that's being
laid out right now. So combined, it's
trillions of dollars of capex that's
required that will need to be financed.
It will be financed by commercial banks.
It will be financed by money center
banks. It will be financed by the liquid
credit markets and by private credit.
And by the way, this will be across both
investment grade and subinvestment
grade. So I think there's just a ton of
capex needs over the next decade where
private credit will take its normal
market share and provide that financing.
>> There's a lot of thematic areas of
investing that are going to require
private credit or just credit generally.
In addition to that, there's a lot of
sponsor to sponsor trading activity that
occurs. Sponsors selling their assets to
other sponsors and they need private
credit or broadly syndicated loans to
help finance those transactions as just
in the normal course. Daniel, what are
you seeing in Europe and just in the
broadly syndicated markets, the public
markets generally? I mean thematically
obviously some of that I would say plays
through but what's your sense of that
overall market opportunity? Yeah, I mean
thematically we're seeing the same
things because I think if you think
about big picture 10,000 PE owned
companies 90% of companies are private.
They need financing solutions AI tech
that's driving it. A lot of the private
credit issuance has been in tech and
healthcare about 40% of the issuance so
far this year but that still leaves this
huge other amount across various
different industries. You mentioned
Europe. That's been interesting,
especially in the liquid credit markets
where you can pick up a little bit more
yield. It's a smaller, less efficient
market today. And there's also some
secular trends there with certain
countries increasing their defense
spending, infrastructure spending.
>> You know, it seems like some private
equity firms and just investors
generally globally are trying to balance
out their exposures a little bit between
the US, Europe, and potentially other
regions. I know Ragav, we're seeing on
the direct lending side some uptick in
some of the European investing that some
private equity firms are doing on the
marginal dollar looking to where they
can either the UK or continental Europe
for opportunities. And I think maybe the
basis is that those economies have been
not invested in or underinvested in
mainly because of the war in Ukraine and
some other country to country legal
regime separations. But today that's
caused I think an opportunity to invest
at reasonable valuations and with
reasonable capital structures. So I know
as a global investment manager we're
always interested in relative value
between US, Europe, emerging markets and
other kind of developed economies. So
it's good to see expansion outside of
the US as well and I think we'll have
further opportunities to invest globally
in some of these thematic areas but also
in private equity backed companies.
Let's talk a little bit about structure.
What's happening in the private credit
markets and how would you compare that
over time with the public markets? Are
we sort of converging or is private
credit still meaningfully different
either in terms of pricing, legal
structure, leverage levels? How many
dimensions do you think Ra?
>> Sure I think first you have to break
down the private credit market by size
and typically and this is fairly common
most practitioners would divide the
market into the lower middle market
which is usually 25 million of IBIDA or
lower the core middle market which could
be depending on one's definition
somewhere between 25 and 75 million IDA
and then what's known as a large cap
which starts at 100 million of IBITa but
really you're looking at financing needs
of a billion dollars or more. So really
if you assume five turns of leverage,
200 million of Ibita or higher and the
reason you need to break down the market
that way is it's only the upper end of
that market that the businesses that are
looking for a billion dollars of
financing or more that can access both
the liquid market and the private credit
market. So naturally you would then
expect that it is that part of the
market where we are starting to see
convergence in terms of credit
agreements uh pricing and leverage
between the public market and the
private market. the private market even
for those really big borrowers will
still give you better LME what's known
as liability management protections but
away from that LTVs leverage and pricing
are starting to converge so you
mentioned private credit transactions of
a billion dollars those borrowers having
options in the public market versus the
private market in the private market
context is that a single lender
providing that billion dollars or more
of leverage is it a consortium of
lenders right so that's actually a
pretty interesting dynamic because if
you go back even 5 years ago, even for
large deals, you could find what's known
as two-handed deals where two lenders
speak for the entire deal. In the
smaller deals, the middle market deals,
you may even find single lender deals.
So, what's happened now is that the
private credited market, even for really
large deals, looks and feels a little
bit more syndicated than it did 5 10
years ago. Even though there are some
very large lenders that can speak for
500 million to a billion dollars per
deal, private equity sponsors have just
realized that they do not want to take
lender risk if you will. And so they
will naturally create a deal where there
are four, sometimes as many as 10
lenders in a deal, which is starting to
feel a little bit more like the
syndicated loan market where you have
multiple CLOs's. So for the bigger
deals, maybe gone are the days of the
two-handed deal. Are you seeing or
hearing of trading or the interest of
trading in these private assets? Because
as we think about the corlaries with
broadly syndicated loan markets and
obviously there's a lot of trading and
that impacts outcomes actually in the
broadly syndicated loan market. Are you
seeing that kind of trading activity
starting to pick up or not? We are a
little bit this is known as secondaries.
So you do see secondary trading of
mostly portfolios of loans as opposed to
single loans. So that aspect is still
different from the BSL market or the
high yield market where most of trading
is single name uh loans or bonds. So one
you're seeing these trades happen on a
portfolio basis and second usually the
ones that go up for sale are more of the
stress portfolios as opposed to the
pristine portfolios that are performing
well. Now if you have another
dislocation like a co where lenders are
seeing redemptions and have to dispose
of the pristine portions of their
portfolios. I do think you'll see this
step change up in more portfolio trades
even for performing loans.
>> Yeah, I mean on this topic of
convergence between public and private,
it just seems like this particular point
in some ways makes that convergence look
a little bit faster possibly. So it is
something that we're watching in terms
of trading activity and private loans,
the interest of investment managers to
create trading platforms in these areas.
>> So we're obviously seeing convergence in
structure and pricing between the two
markets. We're also seeing convergence
in the buyer base. And this is
interesting because high yield bonds,
senior loans, these used to be
institutional asset classes. They're now
wellowned by everyday investors and
mutual funds and other types of
portfolios. And you're seeing that
adoption with private credit, too. It's
moving from more of an institutional
market to the wealth market. It's being
incorporated in different types of
hybrid vehicles, evergreen vehicles,
BDC's, interval funds, tender offer
funds. as that buyer base shifts, I
think you'll just continue to see the
two markets become more of one and
coexist as a single asset class.
>> So, as the buyer base becomes uniform
across all of these public and private
asset classes, credit and otherwise, how
do you think about portfolios? How do
you think about portfolio construction?
It used to be the case, or maybe it
still is the case, that investors say,
"This is my private credit allocation.
This is my public credit allocation."
Are we seeing a little bit of
convergence in that thinking? Are we now
talking about credit rather than public
credit versus private credit?
>> I I think that's right. I think instead
of thinking about it as two different
asset classes, allocators are thinking
more about outcomes. What do they want
to achieve from credit? Is it income? Is
it inflation protection? And they're
structuring portfolios that way. When
you can combine public and private
credit in a portfolio, I think it
optimizes your portfolio construction.
You can really pick that right mix of
yield and liquidity. We talked about
private credit giving enhanced yield
because of the illi liquidity and the
less frequent marks. That can be great
in a certain market environment. But if
markets are dislocating, how great to be
able to go into public markets where you
can buy things at a discount and quickly
and also have some dry powder in a
portfolio to then fund those private
deals because that's a great time to
step in as a private lender. We use
liquid credit as a funding mechanism too
for private credit so we don't have cash
drag in our portfolio. We could be more
selective as we pick the private
positions that we want in such a
portfolio. We could camp out in public
credit and earn a nice income as we wait
and nice sort of risk protected or
riskadjusted returns that pay us to wait
and we don't have cash drag. That's a
good point.
>> Armen, the other tactical reason for
combining liquid and private credit in a
single portfolio and thinking about
portfolio construction across the two is
that one, you know, private credit
usually will throw off more current
income at the expense of not having much
original issue discount. in a market
dislocation. If you combine discounted
securities, whether it's discounted high
yield and discounted BSLs, which
naturally have a lower current income
with the high current income from
private credit, you create a very
interesting portfolio where you're still
buying down your bases quite quickly
because of all the coupon that's being
thrown off on a blended basis, but you
also have a pull to par opportunity.
Meanwhile, because of the discounted
purchases, you've lowered the overall
cost of the portfolio. The other nice
thing about adding private credit to a
public portfolio is as we all know
private credit marks based on
fundamentals not on psychology which can
infect the liquid credit markets more so
than the private credit market. So when
you add private credit to a portfolio
which has liquid and private the private
portion acts as a volatility dampener.
So you just get a much more smooth
experience which is more reflective of
the underlying fundamentals of the
borrowers and the economy as opposed to
just pure psychology.
>> Yeah. So I guess to say what you said
but in my words so the private portfolio
gives you stability and income and the
public portfolio to the extent you get
added to it helps to manage liquidity
and helps to actually get opportunistic
when there's a technical dislocation in
that market for you to buy assets at a
discount. So we talked a lot about
private credit and specifically when we
were talking about private credit we
were talking mainly about corporate
direct lending sponsored direct lending
and in the case of public credit we were
talking about broadly syndicated loans
and high yield bonds. I think those are
pretty well understood and we're
definitely seeing that convergence. But
what else is out there in terms of other
asset classes either in the public land
in the credit space or on the private
side that you think are attractive or
will be interesting as we look forward
in the next couple years?
>> Sure. So I mentioned this briefly but I
do think assetback finance is very
interesting. If you believe as I do that
we are entering a period of high capex
across data centers, defense, aerospace,
what have you, then I think assetback
finance is naturally an area that's
going to grow and benefit by financing a
lot of that capex spend. I also think
adding assetback financing to a broader
portfolio of largely direct lending
other types of corporate credit is an
interesting diversifier because
assetback financing you're not lending
to a single corporate so you're
diversifying away from just pure
corporate risk and there are certain
parts of that market which are not
covered by insurers or banks which are
below the IG they're below IG rated
where there is a complexity premium that
you can also earn in addition to adding
a source of diversification in larger
portfolios the Other more thematic thing
we're seeing is sectoral niches. So
there are certain smaller parts of the
private credit market such as life
sciences and infraet where there is a
above average complexity where you need
a lot of subject matter expertise. You
cannot be a generalist and cover these
markets nor can you frankly originate by
being a generalist in these markets and
because of that tougher origination the
tougher underwriting as well as the
structuring you get a yield premium. So
again, if you add those to a broadly
diversified private credit portfolio,
you again get the benefit of more
diversification in sectors which are
sometimes not very correlated to the
broader economy.
>> What about in the public areas or areas
that might touch some of these public
markets? Danielle, what are you seeing?
You know, when I think about the global
credit markets and oak trees opportunity
set as we're constructing multi-asset
portfolios, the core is usually high
yield bonds and senior loans. And then
the alpha strategies that add some spice
to the portfolio are structured credit,
emerging market debt and convertibles. I
think the opportunity and structured
credit is very attractive today on both
the corporate side in the form of CLO
debt and equity as well as in real
estate and in particular in residential
mortgage back securities. Clos are
somewhat mainstream but a lot of
investors aren't utilizing them in the
way that we are in a multi-asset
context. So oftent times the largest
trunch of a CLO AAA is what many will
buy. Our focus has tended to be in the
double B. It's an unloved subinvestment
grade rated part of the securization
where you can get on average 500 basis
points of excess spread compared to
similarly rated debt. So it's an area
we've been allocating too. It doesn't
come without its risks in the terms of
marktomarket volatility and so it pairs
really nicely in a multiasset portfolio.
On the real estate side, the residential
side is interesting given the rate
backdrop in the US. Not a lot of people
have been going out to buy new homes or
refinance their homes at the prevailing
6 7% mortgages for a fixed 30-year
mortgage. And what that's done is it's
provided some disruption in the RMBBS
market. These are instruments that we
can buy at a discount to par. Should
rates fall and refinancing pick back up,
we can actually outear our stated yield.
So, there's a little bit of a technical
in that market. And just generally, I
like the backdrop of housing compared to
the financial crisis. We have under
supply. We have much higher borrower
FICO ratings. So, that's an interesting
part of the market that we're mining
opportunities. And then you add in some
convertible bonds, emerging market debt.
This really gives you diversification in
your liquid allocation and then of
course adding in private credit can only
enhance that.
>> Okay, great. Really distilling what both
of you just said, it seems like although
there's this very well understood core
in the private side of corporate direct
lending on a firstling basis to private
equity sponsors and on the public side
high yield bonds and broadly syndicated
loans that seems like the core of the
private credit market and the public
credit market. But if I was to think
about what you said in addition was to
really tap the best of the private
credit market and the public credit
market, you need to have skills beyond
just that core. In the case of public
markets, Danielle, you talked about CLO
tanches and R&Bs and having specialists
and experts in those particular areas to
be able to assess the relative value
benefits whether it's in risk or return
or both as those markets move. And
that's a huge differentiator I think for
a credit strategy or a credit platform.
And on the private side, Ragav, you
mentioned life sciences and asset back
finance and opportunistic credit as
other private credit areas that can
provide additional return and
diversification. I think that is a very
important point in both because you
often do want to have uncorrelated
investments so that if there is a shock
to the economy or a shock to the markets
that you're not having all correlations
going to one. In the case of life
sciences, you're right, those businesses
are really not derivative of GDP. In the
case of asset back finance, in terms of
diversification, I think it exposes or
offers investments in industries that
you often don't find in corporate direct
lending. I think of these pools of
assets in aircraft or rail cars or
student loans or credit cards. You don't
really see a borrower that gives you
that exposure. And as a result,
globally, the total market opportunity
in asset back finance is in the many
many trillions of dollars. In the case
of asset back finance, you're not
attaching at the net net bottom line
cash flow. you're attaching at a
critical cost line for a borrower. So
let's take for example an aircraft
leasing company or an aircraft company,
an airline. They have revenues, they
have costs, and one of those costs are
leasing airplanes. And that lease is
what forms the basis for an assetback
finance deal. As long as that company is
in business and wanting to fly a
diversified pool of such aircraft, then
they will pay that lease. And you could
say the same about rental payments,
royalty payments on medical royalty or
life sciences royalties or music. It
just is so far reaching and a very
attractive diversifier in an overall
credit allocation. I think next steps
would love to hear what you think we're
going to see in the private context, the
public context going forward. Is the
convergence going to go the other
direction? Is there going to be more
opportunities or less?
>> Yeah, I think the conversion is going to
increase. And we talked about liquid
versus private. Armen, you also
mentioned non-corporate lending such as
asset back financing. If you look at the
market in terms of what private equity
sponsors want, what investment banks
want, what management teams want, they
want lenders that can offer the entire
breadth of capabilities across liquid
versus private, corporate versus
assetback financing, US versus rest of
the world, and then also performing
versus more opportunistic. And I think
the managers who have the greatest right
to win will be the ones that can bring
all of these capabilities to bear to the
market because the market prefers
one-stop solutions as opposed to having
to go to dozens of different lenders for
a dozen different needs.
>> For me, diversification is the key. When
you're combining these asset classes and
you're going outside of core markets,
you're adding diversification and
uncorrelated asset streams to your
portfolio. When I think about how we at
Oak Tree can add value to our investors
portfolio, specifically in the multist
strategy space in order of importance,
one is exposing them to things they may
not otherwise invest in that have higher
potential. Two, it's going into those
markets and through our bottomup
fundamental research doing better than
the markets, avoiding the losers,
letting the winners take care of
themselves because we are credit
investors. And then three is an
opportunity for asset allocation and
thinking about relative value when
markets dislocate and shifting capital
between core strategies and some of our
alpha strategies. And I think that
really opportunistic piece is core to
Oak Tre's DNA. It's shown in how we
approach our borrower community and the
flexibility of solutions we can offer
them as well as how we flexibly design
portfolios for different market
environments. So dare I say maybe the
markets are converged and that plays to
Oak Tree strengths as being able to
offer this in both ways.
>> So maybe if I could just wrap up, it
seems like there's a growing level of
convergence between public and private,
a growing opportunity set in some of
these other areas that are new and
esoteric and offer diversification,
additional return, some complexity. I
think that this range of opportunities
is great for investors. It's also great
for borrowers. borrowers now can tap so
many different ways with the markets or
with particular managers and for them to
offer assetbacked solutions or corporate
credit solutions or public credit
solutions to that same set of borrowers
or private equity firms or
intermediaries or counterparties. And I
know that at Oakree we value very much
our ability to work on many levels with
the same counterparties as they are
repeat market participants and are
excited about what the future will hold.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Notes and disclaimers.
This recording and the information
contained herein are for educational
andformational purposes only and do not
constitute and should not be construed
as an offer to sell or a solicitation of
an offer to buy any securities or
related financial instruments. Responses
to any inquiry that may involve the
rendering of personalized investment
advice or affecting or attempting to
affect transactions and securities will
not be made absent compliance with
applicable laws or regulations,
including broker, dealer, investment
adviser, or applicable agent or
representative registration requirements
or applicable exemptions or exclusions
there from. This recording, including
the information contained herein, may
not be copied, reproduced, republished,
posted, transmitted, distributed,
disseminated, or disclosed in whole or
in part to any other person in any way
without the prior written consent of
Oakree Capital Management LP, together
with its affiliates, Oak Tree. By
accepting this document, you agree that
you will comply with these restrictions
and acknowledge that your compliance is
a material inducement to Oak Tree
providing this document to you.
This recording contains information and
views as of the date indicated and such
information and views are subject to
change without notice. Oak tree has no
duty or obligation to update the
information contained herein. Further,
Oakree makes no representation and it
should not be assumed that past
investment performance is an indication
of future results. Moreover, wherever
there is the potential for profit, there
is also the possibility of loss. Certain
information contained herein concerning
economic trends and performance is based
on or derived from information provided
by independent third-party sources. Oak
tree believes that such information is
accurate and that the sources from which
it has been obtained are reliable.
However, it cannot guarantee the
accuracy of such information and has not
independently verified the accuracy or
completeness of such information or the
assumptions on which such information is
based. Moreover, independent third-party
sources cited in these materials are not
making any representations or warranties
regarding any information attributed to
them and shall have no liability in
connection with the use of such
information in these materials.
Copyright 2025 Oak Tree Capital
Management LP.
Audiation.
