We've been building one of the largest
discretionary pools of capital globally,
which today on our balance sheet is
around $180 billion of capital. There's
135 now in the uh insurance business and
almost and just over a trillion dollars
in the asset management business today.
The business is in 50 countries. It's
built to be extremely nimble. But one
thing we're not nimble with is our
discipline on how we invest your money.
Um that has led to 19% annualized
returns for 30 years, which um always
doesn't sound like that much, but that's
a 27,000%
27,000%
return over 30 years. What's more
interesting,
most investment strategies get worse as
you get bigger. Our 20-year returns are
16, our 10year returns are 17, our
5-year returns are 22.
What it means is the business is
maturing and getting better over time.
And scale actually is assisting us get
better returns.
We've achieved that by evolving the
business and innovating within the
strategies. Once we understand an
industry, we move fast and we deploy at
scale. 50% of the assets that we operate
with today didn't exist as an asset
class for investable purposes
15 years ago. But despite widening out,
our investment approach has remained
consistent and has essentially been a
methodical and proven capital allocation
process. We're in the midst of three
things which are going to foundationally
change what we do in the business in a
positive. Uh AI
is going to drive enormous things within
businesses if you get it right and we
believe we can get it right. Second,
aging populations
are demanding wealth products and are
increasingly going to need those
products to service their 401ks and
other retirement systems. And third, on
a more micro level, the real estate
recovery is here and it's um it's coming
back. So, welcome to the next chapter of
Brookfield. We have delivered earnings
growth of 22% on an annualized basis
over the last 5 years, and we've grown
our plan value ahead of our long-term
targets. And we're really well
positioned to continue to scale our
earnings at 20% plus. And that growth
comes from two key areas. The first is
us participating in the growth that is
delivered by our core businesses. The
second area is capital allocation. We
take the excess cash flow that we
generate in the business and we reinvest
it planting the seeds for future
earnings growth. And this continues to
be underpinned by a conservative balance
sheet that's conservative in terms of
our capitalization and maintaining high
levels of liquidity, providing a
platform for the franchise to deliver
its evolution and its growth. We raised
over $95 billion of capital in the
business. We deployed $135 billion into
new investments. We executed $155
billion of financings and we monetized
over $75 billion of assets. Now, five
years ago at investor day, we set our
targets to grow our DE before
realizations
to $4.8 billion. We targeted 19% growth
and we plan to grow our plan value to
$100 a share. We didn't grow by 19%, we
grew by 22% taking DE before
realizations to $5.3 billion. But better
yet, as we've grown the business, we've
also diversified our earning streams.
But as you can see, from 2023 onwards,
the contribution of our wealth solutions
business, that's us taking our excess
capital, seeding it into the business to
build new earnings drivers for the
franchise. The scaling of BWS as a core
part of Brookfield and an increased
integration into the business is going
to allow us to sustain our growth for
the long term.
The generational investment
opportunities for AI will be a
foundational com component of many of
our products that we offer to clients
and where we look to deploy capital. And
then more specifically, we expect
declining interest rates, strong capital
markets, the real estate recovery, and
increased transaction activity to
directly benefit our earnings over the
plan period. And we believe with the
foundations that we have in place with
the business today, we are really only
just getting started. Over the past
year, our balance sheet assets have
performed extremely well. We've signed
15 million square feet in leases across
our office and retail businesses at
rents 11% higher than expiring rents. We
grew our NOI and monetized $5 billion of
our balance sheet assets. Going forward,
our portfolio is going to be segmented
into three groups. Our super core
assets, which will comprise 34 of our
most irreplaceable assets, our premier
properties located in key global
markets. Our transitional and
development assets will become our core
plus and value ad portfolios. Core plus
will be a collection of 57 assets
growing NOIs that we intend to monetize
over time. The the key differentiating
factor between core plus and super core
is not quality of our assets. Our core
plus portfolio in almost any other
business would be considered super core.
We set out 5 years ago to build uh at
the time what we thought could be a
scaled global uh wealth solutions
provider and I'd say where we are today
we our conviction is only stronger. We
think we can build a business that can
compound capital for many decades to
come and in many ways is almost the
perfect match to the things we do inside
of Brookfield. If you go back a 100
years in the United States 1 in 20
people were over the age of 65. Today
it's 1 in6
and by 2050 it's 1 in4. And if you sum
it up from a math perspective, it means
that in today's dollars you have a $7
trillion retirement deficit. We've
talked a lot today about what is
investmentled insurance. It means that
as an organization, we are not
passengers or passive participants on
the investment side. We're very active.
We sold off virtually every longduration
asset inside the balance sheets of the
companies we acquired. We shortened the
asset book down to four years. We stayed
very liquid. We kept our liabilities
long because they were written at low
rates that were very attractive. That's
an investment approach to running an
insurance business. And capturing all
that value allowed us to build a capital
base gave us the confidence that we
could then continue to grow and look for
acquisitions. Maybe the most important
thing we've done in the last 5 years is
build the foundation for scale. The
building blocks of this business are now
in place with distribution,
with the discipline that we have, with
the capital we have, our regulatory
expertise. As long as we stay committed
to this investment approach, we'll have
an amazing business.
