[Music]
Welcome to Educational Alpha. I'm Bill
Kelly, your host, bringing you on the
ground conversations with business
leaders, educators, and industry
colleagues from around the globe.
Educational Alpha is sponsored by I
Capital, the financial technology
company with the mission to power the
world's alternative investment
marketplace. Part innovator, part
educator, and part navigator of the
alternatives industry, IIC Capital
offers intuitive, scalable digital
solutions that have transformed how
private market and hedge fund
investments are bought and sold. With I
Capital, financial adviserss, wealth
managers, and asset managers around the
world now have access to everything they
need to deliver the return and
diversification potential of
alternatives to high- netw worth
investors. To learn more, visit
icap.com.
In this episode, Bill welcomes Steve
Novakovich, managing director of
educational programs for Kaya
Association to discuss the evolving
nature of endowment investing, the
growing role of total portfolio
approaches, and the shifting
responsibilities of asset allocators.
Steve shares his journey from working at
the Cornell University Investment Office
to shaping the KA curriculum,
emphasizing how events like the global
financial crisis and modern portfolio
theory shaped his views. They also
explore the role of diversification in
portfolio construction, the importance
of due diligence in manager selection,
the rising impact of retail
democratization, and the ethical
foundation needed to support long-term
credibility in the profession. Steve
further outlines how KAI is adapting its
curriculum, introducing proprietary
ethical principles and leading with new
educational tools like the Unifi
platform.
[Music]
Steve Nobakovich, welcome to Educational
Alpha. Oh, thanks for having me, Bill.
Excited to be here. It's going to be an
excellent discussion and being out of
Kaya for fourish months. It's a gift
that keeps on giving to me. I have a
global network of friends both within
Kaya and you fall into that category.
and outside of KA where you once fell
into that category. success has many
parents but I'm going to take credit
first you finding me and me then
bringing you into Kaio I feel so good
about the role that you play and person
sitting in that seat and I think by the
end of this discussion I think the
listeners are not going to require much
convincing that you sit in a very very
important seat true to format of this
program I'll ask you to give a little
bit on your background and maybe to
complete my circle of life with you. I
did not know you at all and I think you
blindly reached out to me I think on
LinkedIn and asked me to come in and do
a guest lecture when you were an adjunct
at Ithaca and I really enjoyed your
style and approach as a teacher and
enjoyed the classroom and as they say
the rest is history but maybe I'll let
you fill in some of the blanks. Yeah,
really fortunate timing to make an
introduction and have you come in and
the rest is history as they say. It was
a great experience to get to see you in
action in the classroom and everyone
talks about how fantastic of a presenter
you are and your skill as an orator and
I got to see that up front and it was
awesome. It was great to then be able to
connect and move on to become a big part
of Kaya now after having been a member
of KA for almost a decade prior to
joining as an employee. So, it's
awesome. You've have an interesting
story and it's going to be germaine to
this
conversation. Both your time at the
Cornell endowment and your very
interesting reason to leave where your
wife Joanne is an equestrian coach and
unless she's going to take care of the
stables in Central Park, not exactly a
transferable skill set to New York City.
So maybe you could talk a little bit
about the formative experience there and
that's going to play into the rest of
this conversation. Yeah, absolutely. So,
I started my career in 2005 at the
Corner University Investment Office. I
couldn't have asked for a better
starting gig in a couple of ways. Number
one, to be with one of the most
sophisticated institutional investors in
the world, you get exposed to
everything. When you're in undergrad in
college, doesn't matter what program
you're going to for the most part,
you're just learning about stocks and
bonds. You have no idea what else is out
there. I sort of got lucky to stumble
into the job that I had out of college.
But then to be able to have my eyes
opened to a broader world of finance
that I didn't know exist was just so
fortunate but also amazing to learn
about hedge funds and private equity and
real estate and all that. And this was
at a time when alternatives were still
not fully mainstream per se from a media
standpoint, from an investing
standpoint. Talk about private debt. For
a lot of folks, private debt is
something that's kind of newish in the
last couple years. Well, Cornell had
been private debt for a decade already
at that point, and that was an important
part of our investment portfolio, but I
got to watch it as it was still probably
described as being a nent part of the
industry and growing and participate in
that. And then the other element that
was just so rewarding about my timing is
a I got to go to a great place to just
be exposed to the industry, but then b I
mentioned I started in 2005, three years
later, great financial crisis. If
everybody could start their job at a
time of volatility and craziness, that's
when you learn the most. You know, it's
like you don't really wish it upon
people, but you learn so much in those
environments. I was fortunate to working
in a job that I knew had some job
security. I know a lot of people in the
industry had a lot of concerns and may
lost their job during that stretch, but
you learn so much in a crisis and you
learn about things that you would have
never been exposed to. operational due
diligence, risk management, those types
of things that people don't think about
when life is good. And so it really
forms you and trains you in a way that
you can't get trained in any other way.
That was really kind of the roots of my
career, getting to spend a lot of time
across the world of alternate
investments until segueing into academia
and then now with Kaya kind of a foot in
each door of being the educational
programs leader here and getting to
teach folks about what's going on in the
world of alternative investments and
allocating. Thanks for that, Stephen.
Before we leave, the past and this line
of questioning so to speak, is very much
relevant to the now and the future. And
just by happen stance, not coordinated,
we're recording this on the very last
days of April. And this episode's going
to come out in the first week in May,
about I think a week from today. And the
episode being dropped today is with your
former Cornell colleague, Roger Vincent,
who I got to know. I forget if it was
through you or I forget the exact
lineage that got me there, but certainly
a lot of mutual respect I know. But that
discussion was recorded several weeks
ago and I think we might have been into
this liberation day, but we didn't
really get into the endowment model as
much as I recall. The episode may tell
me something different, but it is an
evolving story. And it's interesting
when you just mentioned you were at the
endowment during the great financial
crisis when a lot of these endowments
had to put some merchandise back on the
market because they have capital calls
that need to be met and the pesky
corporation asks for 5% a year and you
do have to have some dry powder to pay
for maybe other expenses that come up
when crisis like this hit. So now we're
staring in the face of terrorists and
liberation days and lawsuits between
universities and the federal government
and it's causing these universities not
only to take on a fair amount of debt on
the other side of their balance sheet
but to rethink the asset allocation.
There's a lot going on there and you're
not in this mix anymore. So you can be a
semi or fully informed bystander,
however you want to approach this, but
maybe your views on what this means
visav the endowment model that you knew
circa 2005 through the GFC and what it
means visav TPA and the machinations and
pivoting that are required by any
investor of scale. Yeah, I mean there's
a lot to unpack there. At the end of the
day, it's going to be a bit of a unique
answer for for every institution. Let's
go back to 2008 for a moment and think
about how all the different institutions
responded during that crisis. You
mentioned the endowment has a payout.
That's one of the most important
aspects, the whole reason the endowment
exists, if you will. What we don't think
about is how impactful that payout is or
how meaningful that payout is for each
organization behind that endowment. And
what I mean by that is what percentage
of the budget that the organization
spends is supported by that endowment.
All endowments have a quotequote 5% plus
or minus payout, but that might
represent half of the annual budget. It
might represent 20% of the annual
budget. It might represent 10% of the
annual budget, right? It just depends on
the size of the budget, the size of the
endowment and all those things. When you
have a time of crisis where like assets
fall and even though the 5% payout is
still the same, the asset base is
smaller and so the number coming is a
little bit lower that can have a huge
impact depending on how proportionally
it is to the overall budget. the
organizations, the universities that had
that greater of a reliance on the
endowment were that much more I don't
know if trouble is the right word that
much more challenged than those where
maybe the endowment represented 10% of
the budget or 10% of the revenue
whatever you would want to call it in a
given year. The other thing too to keep
in mind is that what are other sources
of funds? Tuition of course, but then
gifts. Not surprisingly, gifts are also
correlated with how markets are moving
too. So you've got this sort of double
whammy of markets declining and then
your payout may be impacted and then
you're also gifts are getting impacted
and so that puts a lot of stress and
pressure on organizations that sort of
have a disproportionate amount of their
funds coming from those areas and then
you have your trustees or other
fiduciaries who then say well what can
we do to stem this tide? You asked
questions about can you raise more funds
from the endowment? Do you have special
payouts, things of that nature? And that
leads into your question sort of around
liquidity and whether or not the
endowment model can support that type of
chaos and uncertainty that exists in the
marketplace. And there's a lot more to
unpack there, but I'll pause for a
second to see if anything else you
wanted to unravel before further going
down that path. Maybe a couple things
not directly responsive to that but
maybe partially but also maybe in bigger
totality of the conversation as I think
about the evolution and you can choose
another word of the endowment model to
TPA something that I think remains
sacrosanked which is manager selection
that certainly the endowments and I
think Harvard as an example goes back to
the 1800s so they were a pool of capital
before the private markets even existed
so to have that kind a manager selection
early with exclusivity and relationships
is a big big plus. I don't know the
merchandise that's on sale now to reach
the liquidity goal they're looking at.
But I suspect that if it's of a certain
vintage, it probably could be trading
above par and maybe at an attractive
value. I simply don't know. But also I
look at well what does this mean visav
TPA and cash is an asset class and if
TPA means antibbucketing and every
portfolio idea is competing with the
next one out there when there's a need
to get more liquid cash is the ultimate
TPA play. So again, packed a lot in
there for you to unpack, but I guess
maybe commenting on both manager
selection and how the endowment model
reconciles with TPA. So I think that
your comment on manager selection is one
that I got to see evolve firsthand while
I was at the university, which is to say
that going back way back back, there's
no question that there was a perspective
that you could harvest alpha across
pretty much any asset class or any
strategy. As we've advanced and evolved,
the markets have become more efficient.
thanks to technology and so forth.
Increasingly, we're questioning whether
or not their alpha is easy to come by or
even exist in certain markets. And
looking at endowments, that's one thing
you can see front and center is that
going back to the ' 50s, '60s, '7s, '8s,
whatever, you'd have active management
in every strategy. You know, we had
active managers in the equity
portfolios, active managers in fixed
income portfolios. Hedge funds obviously
were harvesting a lot of alpha, so on
and so forth. Today, if you look at what
a lot of the average endowments do,
there's more and more passive in those
portfolios, certainly in public markets
in particular, whether it be in large
cap equities in the US or even in fixed
income markets potentially. That's been
a big shift. And so, manager selection
is something that's of essential
importance when you feel like there's
alpha to be had and inefficiencies that
can be taken advantage of by skilled
expertise. in areas where you don't feel
like you're earning that premium, you're
seeing more and more investors sort of
shift over to just accessing the beta.
And so that's one trend that I think is
taking place irrespective of whether or
not you're in the endowment model, TPA
model or what that will be. And to a
certain degree, when you're in beta,
that does help with liquidity. You don't
have to worry about manager lockups
necessarily or any kind of notice
periods and so forth. If you just have
exposure to the S&P 500 via an index or
an ETF, that liquidity is quite great.
And the endowment model always viewed
liquidity as being sourced from your
equity portfolio predominantly. Fixed
income is a very small portion of most
endowments. And so you'd use your equity
portfolios to be your liquidity source,
which is great when markets are sideways
or up, but obviously a problem when
markets are going down. And that sort of
adds to the crisis and chaos. To your
point, that's sort of another thing that
endowments have to kind of think about
more so in today's environment is does
it still make sense to have equities be
a primary means of liquidity or sources
of liquidity for them or do you start to
put greater emphasis on cash or
tolerance for holding cash? There's good
reasons why not and I'll go into those
in a moment. There are people that put
the knock on the endowment model and the
knock on private markets. And I think
maybe somewhat misunderstood in terms of
where Kaya fits into this ecosystem is
that KA is not for or against
alternatives. They're for
diversification. Sylvia Quan, who's a
Kaya member, a friend of KA, a friend of
mine, now the CEO and CIO of Elst. I was
on a panel with her a couple of years
ago with some very learned investments
and Mark Anson of the common fund and
former KAIA board members in the
audience and a lot of views, but she
summed it up so very very well when we
talked about accessing alts and she said
she tries to get uncorrelated risk
premia for her clients and if she can't
find that in the public markets she
looks privately and it's interesting I
don't know if this data exists Stephen
and you more than me would know if it
does. But a favorite chart of mine and I
might have used this one day in a
certain classroom in Ithaca virtually
was back in 1982 there were 24 private
equity general partners in the entire
world. I'm not sure if we made a
distinction between venture buyout and
growth. It was just private equity. Of
those 24, I would think, and I've made
the statement on this platform before,
Alpha was there for the taking. But what
I don't know is I don't think Prequin
existed back then. I don't think
Pitchbook existed back then. And I never
recalled seeing charts around
performance dispersion circa 1982. But
it is alive and well today. And if that
24 number of GPS has now been segmented
to different types of market cap and
there's over 10,000 of them, a natural
byproduct is very wide performance
dispersion. Nobody wants to be the
median, but the median's the median. And
those returns are pedestrian at best.
And if you rinse them through a public
market equivalent, they kind of look
like the time weighted return I could
get in the S&P 500. But the distance of
travel between that median to the top
cortile is thousands of basis points.
And therein lies the opportunity set. So
again, I happen to be very verbose with
my statements with no question at the
end, but I'm just throwing that in as
maybe a last point before we turn the
page and maybe move on to what Ka is
doing about this. I think the last
couple things I would just say about the
endowment model for people to keep in
mind is we always got the question is
like when is too big too big right like
oh my gosh Harvard deal whatever they
have 30 40 $50 billion do they need that
much money I think that's a very sort of
fair question to ask I'm not suggesting
that that's a bad question the notion
then that it's just so simple to sell
half of that and distribute it out or so
forth that's more complicated and what I
mean is is that the endowment exists
Because people often give donations,
right? Well, those donations aren't
always completely just unrestricted
donations. A lot of times they are
restricted and for specific causes. The
whole point of the endowment sometimes
is people can say, "Hey, I want to fund
a certain thing. I want to fund a
certain program." And barring extreme
circumstances, the fiduciaries
responsible for that endowment are not
allowed to use those funds for anything
other than specific restrictions that
were placed on it by the donor. So when
people go, "Oh my gosh, like why is it
that so and so has to do a secondary
sale or why can't they just liquidate
part of the endowment and give it out?"
It's like, well, you know, it might be
the case that only 20% is unrestricted.
And so I think that's something that
people need to be keeping in mind is
that the pool itself, you can do
whatever you want to with that pool in
terms of how you allocate it, but in
terms of then distributing it, a lot of
times you have your hands tied with the
way the money came in and what the donor
required you to do with the proceeds
from a use standpoint. So that's one
thing I think people need to keep in
mind. The other thing too is that
endowments, their goal is to be in
existence in perpetuity, meaning
forever. At the end of the day, your
goal is to maintain the real purchasing
power of those funds. I donate money so
that you could fund a research program.
I want it to be the case that every
single year that 5% payout continues to
be able to impact the exact same way
every single year. So meet inflation
expectations. So that means that off the
top I'm giving out 5% roughly every
single year. So I need to earn that back
so that my pool doesn't shrink. Number
one, there are costs associated with
running this, the human capital that's
there and so forth. And then there's
inflation to make sure that you maintain
the real growth of that capital. And so
when you put a couple percentage of
points of inflation together plus the
payout plus whatever costs there are to
run this, you're talking about needing a
return of 7 8 plus% per year just to
maintain your purchasing power, right?
And so when people go and say, "Boy,
endowments are really aggressive in
their positioning. They have a lot of
alts." Well, that's a big part as to why
that's the case. I know that everyone
goes, "Oh, you could have just done all
stocks the last decade and a half
because the US market did so great." But
that's a very naive comment in the sense
that how many times have we had a
15-year stretch with equities performing
at double digits annualized over that
time period? That's just not something
you can bank on happening over and over
and over again. And then to your point
on diversification, you would be a
terrible fiduciary if you basically put
all of your money into the stock market.
That's just not a good well- diversified
portfolio. And so alts typically are
viewed as a a source of diversification,
but b can get some greater return,
greater risk into your portfolio, which
will be needed to get that 8% plus
return that you need to maintain your
purchasing power. And that's something
that all endowments have to deal with.
And a big part as to why that sort of
endowment model makes sense there. This
has all been very good table setting,
Steve, and we're about maybe at the
halfway point of our time together
today. And in the second half, I want to
take part of this conversation and talk
about what it means visav the kaya
curriculum, democratization, which is a
favorite topic on this platform and one
of mine because it is two sides of the
same coin in terms of opportunity and
risks and some things that scare me a
lot. and then finish up with the future
of credentiing. So maybe starting with
the curriculum. You have a very
difficult job but fortunately you have a
lot of subcontractors out there which
are some of the smartest investors in
the world. So you can know what they
know, see what they worry about, see
where they see opportunities and that I
know from history informs the curriculum
in a very very big way. So you can run
with that. But maybe just to prompt it a
little bit, geopolitical risk is
something that's relatively new to the
curriculum and we are long geopolitical
risk across the spectrum, but we began
these conversations probably going back
to almost the day you arrived. I would
like to think that Kaya had very good
forethought in introducing something
that now is driving probably most of the
volatility in the market and volatility
as scary as it can be if you can maybe
understand it which is part of the
problem volatility does beget alpha. So
maybe talk about the advancement of the
curriculum, maybe what's been added, and
if there's a short list of things you're
thinking about going forward without
getting the test prep providers all up
in arms, that would be good to know. You
and all of your listeners already know
this, but one of the things that I
discovered when I entered into the
industry and graduated from college was
that your learning doesn't stop after
you get handed your diploma, right? The
other thing that was a part of that too
was in your first couple days you feel
like you have to prove that you earned
your paycheck and you hand something to
your boss at the end of every day saying
look what I did and then finally one day
you kind of had a day where you didn't
hand them something because you spent
time reading reports or doing other
knowledge gaining and you went wait a
second I just got paid to read and it's
like no that's important your employer
wants you to grow and learn and become
smarter so you can do even that much
more for them and it was kind of a
little bit of a mind-blowing thing for
One of the greatest things now about the
current position I'm in is that it's
like I get to do learning on steroids
for myself, which is just awesome. But
then it to your point, it's funneling
all that and figuring out what we want
to pass on to our next candidates and
learners and our community at large. The
thing that, you know, we try to find
that balance of is you don't want to be
on the bleeding edge, but you certainly
want to be on the leading edge. So
geopolitics is a really good example of
us sort of being on the leading edge
there. And that was some really exciting
stuff to bring into the curriculum and
create some material that could help
allocators think about how to manage
geopolitics and incorporate the analysis
into their asset allocation process
whether you're talking about TPA SA or
whatever the case may be. You know going
forward kind of looking at the next year
or two the biggest announcement that we
had is Kaya taking its first step into
having its own ethical principles for 20
plus years. We were really delighted to
partner with our friends at CF Institute
and take advantage of their code of
conduct. But we realized increasingly it
was time for us to have our own voice
there. The world of alts is different
from the world of traditional
investments. In a lot of ways, the CFA
code is a little bit more fine-tuned for
traditional investors and may not cover
all the complexities of allocators and
alternative investments. And so I was
really proud of the fact that we develop
our own set that we can hang out and
showcase to the world what we're all
about. The integrity that we really
promote a client first mindset that's so
important to us. So I know that that's
kind of something that most people are
not excited about necessarily. Talking
about ethics is probably going to cause
a lot of people to turn off the podcast
and go somewhere else. But as a Kaya
member, I hope people are as proud as I
am about that advancement. If there's a
topic more important than ethics, I'm
not sure what it is. So, that's just
something that makes me beam inside to
know that we've put this together and we
have our voice there for the first time
as a sort of a standalone. So, that's
one I'm going to kind of be really proud
of in particular, as you should be,
Steve. And maybe just a quick pause in
that because it's a favorite topic of
mine as well. I've had this conversation
with a lot of people including John
Bowman and some folks at his former
employer, the CFA Institute. I don't
know. And I'm of the mindset I don't
think we ever can be a profession
because it's too complicated of an
industry and it started hundreds and
hundreds of years ago and a credential
or ethics was not a founding principle.
I go back to the Buttonwood agreement
and I think a founding principle was
more collusion on pricing than anything
else when these two dozen brokers got
together on Broad Street. But that
doesn't mean we shouldn't try and try
very very hard to bring a greater degree
of
professionalism to this industry and
having organizations that not just by
slogan make this part of their offering
in terms of their culture. So so very
important. We do have a fiduciary
responsibility, but we're still debating
about suitability versus best interest
standards in 2025, which to me is kind
of absurd. So then going back to your
question and kind of finishing that off,
we revise our curriculum every single
year, right? And so this the question
every year, oh, what do you add? What's
new? And going back to my days at
Cornell, it's like one answer people are
thinking you're going to give is like,
well, what's that new investment that's
out there? What's that new strategy that
exists? So, I was there for a dozen
years. Arguably, there was maybe one
asset class that kind of poof appeared
in that 12-ear period, and that would
have been infrastructure. And it's not
like new asset classes just come about
every single year. That new investment
strategies, universes just come up all
the time. It's a very increasingly rare
occurrence that something like that
happens. So, in any given year, it's not
like we're suddenly adding 200 new pages
on a new strategy or new investment. The
most recent one that I'd say kind of
appeared, if you will, would be digital
assets, crypto. That took time to find
its way into the institutional investor
world, but it's there now. And so, we've
got material on that and are continuing
to add material that's designed to
support institutional investors work in
that marketplace. But we're always
looking at what's sort of increasing in
portfolios, what is evolving. So,
examples of that would be growth equity.
That's an area that's been around for a
while but is evolving, becoming more
prominent as a standalone strategy,
subasset class, whatever category you
want to use. Infrastructure I mentioned
was one of those ones that in my view
grew out into prominence during my time
at Cornell. That's an area that we
continue to add as that works its way
across the industry. The other thing
that's really Kai has been talking about
quite a bit, this sort of goes to your
sort of TPA endowment model type
question, is the evolving limited
partner and the tools that they need to
further manage their portfolio. Again,
going back to my Cornell time, which is
not to say all endowments go this way,
but my experience at Cornell is we were
basically just fund investors period in
the story. Had a little bit of
co-investments, but not really. Didn't
do any direct investments in
secondaries. At the time, there was no
such thing as a GPLE secondary. there's
an LPLED secondary and you only did a
secondary when you were in a bit of a
crisis mode. You needed liquidity or you
just had drags in your portfolio or
trying to get out get 70 cents on the
dollar whatever type of a thing. But now
all these tools are must haves for LPS.
If you don't have a co-investment
program, if you're not thinking about
secondaries more tactically, if you
don't know how to underwrite a GPLE
secondary, etc., etc., you're not using
some of the quivers in your bow, if
that's the right phrase. And so we're
adding more material there to help
support that next generation investor to
take advantage of all of their tools.
And the last thing I want to say about
this is going back to the TPA point. I
was involved in the research and the
production of our TPA material and it
was a really great experience for me to
understand what it was all about. You're
talking about that flexibility, getting
rid of the buckets and categories,
competition for capital. I was in
Toronto a couple times in April talking
with more of our TPA friends and I heard
another comment that really further
unlocked TPA and competition for capital
for me in a way that I hadn't heard it
before. And so previously I'd really
thought about TPA, this competition for
capital and this lack of buckets is this
notion of you're not trying to force a
hedge fun allocation and you're thinking
about competition for capital across
buckets and strategies. But then they
added that layer of but we're also
thinking about it across access too. If
I'm a TPA person particularly in the
Maple model as an example where direct
investing is a commonality you're not
only thinking about do I want to do real
estate versus private equity but then
you're saying okay within real estate do
I want to do it directly? Do I want to
do it through co-investments? Do I want
to do it through secondaries? Do I want
to do it through fund managers? And now
you have this sort of like matrix where
you're not only going across
horizontally strategies, but then you're
going vertically within the strategy of
how do I want to access this? And this
is where LPs are now with this
flexibility of you're not just looking
on one dimension, right? You're now
looking at multiple layers and multiple
dimensions of what risk premium am I
targeting and how am I going to access
it? And that's kind of that next level
that I think is really interesting, but
is essential, I think, for allocators to
truly add value. And the last thing I'll
say about it, going back to my time in
Toronto, is one of the allocators was
talking about the decision process they
were making. And they ultimately landed
on leaning more into co-investments of
late. And their analysis was is that
they were adding 500 basis points to
value by going the co-investment route
relative to what they were doing
previously because they were able to be
more harsh in negotiating with fees and
get that fee down. And then they felt
that they could use their value adding
skill to assess and select
co-investments that they really had high
conviction in. And so that combination
of beating up on fees and using a bit of
a direct skill but in a different way
through co-investments, it was a huge
source of value ad for them. And so I
just think that further amplifies a the
power of TPA, but b the kind of the
tools now that allocators need to take
advantage of if they're really going to
distinguish themselves and earn as much
as possible in the marketplace. So a
helpful summary and before we leave
curriculum, maybe a rhetorical
observation on secondaries and then
maybe finish with one final question.
Yan Robarts from Dawson was on with me
about six months or so ago and he had an
interesting observation which stuck with
me and I thought a lot about it which is
by 2030 the secondary space in the
private capital and maybe here the
equity more than the debt will be a
trillion dollars. A lot of people think
that he's crazy and it's a big number.
If he's crazy, he's probably got the
number too low in my opinion. And
listening to you just now, Steve, as a
secondary market circa 2005 to8 when you
were at Cornell, probably a place where
you went kind of holding your nose and
maybe Cornell had better ass spreads,
but even today it's gotten a little bit
more efficient, but it has become a very
interesting exit and entry point for
assen owners. you can get very good
vintage year diversification. Asset
owners are selling not out of stress but
maybe they want to get into that next
vintage year fund but even today the
secondary space is about 1% of the total
capital. So I think in order to have a
more efficient market and this may be a
good segue toward democratization in a
moment. You need to have more liquidity
in secondary space and we can't possibly
be promising 5% quarterly liquidity in
an interval fund when the market's only
delivering 1%. Somebody is taking that
into inventory at a NAV that is not
subject to thorough price discovery. And
I think that could be a risk or a reward
depending on which side you're on. One
other thing, you can comment on that or
not because I do want to move on to uh
democratization. But I had lunch
yesterday with the crowd at FDP and
Alpha Development that's taken over the
FDP credential and I'm on the advisory
board there and very smart group in a
freeranging discussion on a lot of
different things. But one of the
observations they brought up was and
maybe this is what occurred to me in the
course of the conversation. I made the
analogy that being of a certain vintage
year myself, I have a very good sense of
direction. I know north,s,outheast,
west, and my wife Liz is amazed when I'm
taking shortcuts and I end up in a spot
which never occurred to her. So I think
she's just born with less directional
input than I was. But I look at my kids,
they don't memorize phone numbers
anymore. They rely on an app to get them
from point A to point B. And they can
get the most efficient route through
ways. They know where the traffic jams
are. They know where the cops are taking
radar, but they don't have a sense of
direction. And I think some of these
basics including understanding the times
tables make sense. And one of the
criticisms I sometimes see of the kayak
curriculum list upon list upon list and
I say that's should be by design. When I
think about certain acronyms like FTX
and SPF, there's a list of things you
should have assumed. And if you're going
to rely on somebody else's due
diligence, at least understand what they
looked at and what they didn't because
collectively there are blind spots. And
I think the more we leave this to
chance, I think the more risks we have.
So I think we should utilize some of
these tools that are available to us.
But you have to have a wholesome
curriculum where you're actually coming
away understanding a little bit of the
basic timetables of what it means to be
an investor. This is such a great
question, right? because it's something
I think about all the time of like how
important is it for us to if you will
force our candidates to memorize certain
things. Another analogy would be sort of
the calculator like, oh, why do I have
to know this formula if I can do it on
my calculator or why do I even have a
calculator if I can do it on a
spreadsheet? Whatever the case may be,
right? It's all a fair question. There's
a couple answers that immediately come
to my mind. The analogy I'd like to use
is just reflect on something like let's
say you are in your boss's office and
there's a conversation going on. Maybe
you're talking to a manager or whatever
and the manager goes and says, you know,
hey, last year our sort ratio was ABC
and your boss mutes the call or whatever
goes, hey, hey, Steve, can you remind me
what the sort ratio is? If you turn to
your boss, give me a second. Let me pull
up chat GPT to tell you what sortino
ratio is. How do you think that
conversation would go? Do you think your
boss would say, oh, no worries. Yeah,
absolutely. Take a couple minutes to
pull it up on chat GPT. My guess is 99
out of 100 times your boss would be
like, why did I hire you? if this is
what you're going to do for me, there is
a base level of expectation that you
just are going to know things. And even
though it might sound kind of wrote or
annoying to memorize it, that's just
sort of what's expected of you within
certain positions within the industry.
It's just this building of knowledge. Do
you have to memorize how to calculate
sort of ratio every single time or is it
okay to just go on to Excel or go into
Bloomber and have it do it for you?
maybe it's a different question, but
just the base knowledge of certain
things is table stakes to use a term
that you like to use. Now, if your boss
turns to you and asks you something
that's more complicated and you don't
know the answer, and their response is,
well, I'm not offended that you don't
know it, then that's a different story
because there are some things that are
so esoteric or complex or niche or
whatever that maybe it's not imperative
that you have that a down path. But then
the follow on to that is it's one thing
to say, okay, great. I know it's sortino
ratio is I have that memorized and can
rattle it off. But then what you're
really getting at is then the other
skill that's so in demand and essential
to all of us from a career progression
standpoint is then critical thinking and
judgment. It's one thing to be able to
say, okay, I know how to calculate the
sortino ratio. I know what it is. But
there's another thing to say, okay, can
I apply it and use my judgment to
evaluate what that means and give it
context and so forth. That's something
that I don't think can be as easily
taught at this point, at least through
AI tools that are out there. And so
that's a skill that Kaya still has a
very strong place for developing and
supporting with its current and future
candidates and members and something
that I expect us to continue to lean
into as a important part of our
curriculum and our value ad. a good
summary of the approach, Steve, and I
may or may not have stuck pins in my
Novakovich voodoo doll as a recent
candidate, but having come out the other
side now as a very happy and proud
member, those underpinnings have stuck
with me. And if you embarrass me and ask
me to recite any one of these ratios, I
might come up a little bit short, but
the totality of what I took away from
that was just outstanding. So, I would
say uh keep on keeping on there. So,
we're probably going to go into OT here,
Steve, but this is a bit of an important
home game, which I'm totally fine with.
So, I do want to talk about the
curriculum clearly and the future of
credentiing in a moment, and we can
maybe wrap these last two pieces
together. But along the investment road
comes a bit of a fork and on the one
side I have the individual investor, on
the other side, I have the institutional
investor. in terms of optionality and
options and risk premia, they should be
able to access one and the same. But I
do fear that the helpers between the
individual owner and the actual GP or
asset manager is enormous and it would
be very rare unless I was a very big
single family office or ultra high net
worth that I'm even going to meet the
person running my money. So that
anonymous approach I don't think is
helpful. As I've said on this platform
before, I think liquidity in the public
markets in terms of what it means to the
end investor is a feature, but it is a
bug to accumulating wealth. And we're
taking that same bug and making it part
of a feature of democratized access
where these leaky windows have a direct
effect on my irr. And we haven't even
begun to reconcile IRRa to time weighted
returns. I feel Kaya under you and Aaron
Philback have stepped up and created
this Unifi platform. And it'll be
interesting to see how this plays out.
And I said at the same lunch yesterday
when we talked about democratization,
it's quite possible that Unifi could be
as significant to the marketplace as the
Kaio credential is because you've got
more and more people coming in there.
And the goal was and hopefully always
will be is to try to solve for pockets
of ignorance and not try to get the
totality of a wholesome exam which still
is going to make a lot of sense for a
lot of professionals. But what we're
hoping or I shouldn't say we anymore
because now I'm on the outside looking
in. What Kaio is hoping to accomplish is
to create a series of these learning
modules. Not to make anybody an expert
on anything but to give them the courage
and vocabulary and how to approach one
of these perhaps new asset classes. So
I'll let you talk about what that means
on the curriculum and then also for
unify and democratization. Look, I think
the most important thing is that you
just have to know what you're buying,
right? And that's the biggest challenge
for a lot of investors particularly in
the retail space or wealth management
space is if you don't know how to
evaluate it, you're uncertain of what
you're getting into, then you might be
buying something different from what
you're expecting. You made the comment
about interval funds and liquidity.
Okay, great. They might be advertising
that you can get 5% liquidity every
whatever quarter or every other half a
year or what, but it's your
responsibility to actually look through
and say, "Okay, is that actually
available? Is that achievable? What's in
there?" We're starting to see some of
these hybrid funds that suggest that
they're private debt funds with high
liquidity. Then you look at it and
private debts actually capped at 20%,
30%, 40%. The rest of it's just high
yield bonds. And that's, you know,
similar cousins maybe, but it's not the
same exposure, right? You kind of talked
about alpha earlier and different risk
premiums. What is it that you're trying
to get? What is it you're trying to put
in your portfolio? Some of these tools
that are available now from a
democratization standpoint, they're
great if you're looking to get kind of a
beta exposure. And don't get me wrong,
right? Like it's a way to get access to
return streams that are different from
what are out there. You can't delude
yourself into thinking that you
mentioned the spread between second
quartile and first quartile or third
quartile and first quartile. If you
think that you're going to go and get
this first quartile fund investment and
returns by going into one of these newer
products that are more kind of liquid
type products, I'm not bullish on that
being the outcome. But if you're saying,
hey, I believe that the beta profile of
private debt is very attractive and
worthwhile to be in my client's
portfolio. I know there's some liquidity
here, but not liquidity I'm going to be
counting on. Then that's great. put it
in, you know, and it could be a great
diversifier and access to a different
stream of risk, awesome. But if you're
going and saying, "Okay, I'm gonna put
this in. I'm going to get first quartile
returns, and if I need to liquidate the
whole darn thing in a quarter, that's
going to happen." Like, no. Don't trick
yourself into believing that's what's
going to be the case. A lot of I think
what we're doing here is trying to give
the tools and information to investors
so that they can look through the
marketing, look through the vehicle and
truly understand what it is they're
buying and then thinking about whether
or not those exposures are relevant and
useful for their clients. to just leave
us enough time to talk about the future
credentiing. Maybe an exclamation point
on this is that you often times when we
have these interval funds were maybe
appealing to the needs of one cohort of
investors but maybe not all of them. And
if I'm in for the long term and have
bought with the intention of never
selling, but if the market gets very
volatile, investors normally hit the
exit button and their exit nav is my nav
as an investor that believed in this
long term. And I still maintain and
we'll see how this develops and I think
Hamilton Lane and KKR have done some
movement in this direction. But as a
recent Kaya candidate, as I said on
level two, there was one of the required
readings on permission blockchains. And
I think that could prove to be maybe
very interesting in terms of if somebody
wants liquidity, they're on the
blockchain with me, but they got to get
it from somebody else. And my investment
remains fully flush and in line Perry
Pasu with the Cayman base fund. And I
think that maybe solves for a few
problems, but I'll leave that future up
to you. And finishing with the future
future of credentiing here you have a
hard job Steve is the invasion of
genative AI and how that can or can't
impact
credentiing what the credential does and
here not just KA here I'm talking about
the CPA the CFA the CFP what used to
have a pretty long shelf life maybe is
not as long so much anymore because what
that average candidate needs is changing
quite quickly and they're sitting now
next to a data scientist and they're
maybe working with Python and R and
they've got to understand how to work
with data sets and what it means to
overfitit. So how do you think about
this and maybe you delegate it to your
asset owners around the world but
ultimately you're in charge and it's not
an easy job. I don't want to come off as
sounding naive here because this is
something we're thinking about a lot but
I would sort of categorize it there's a
short-term answer and then there's a
long-term answer. In the short term, I
still if anyone were to say, "Oh, yeah,
I can do everything I need to do with
chat GBT or any other AI program
equivalent." I think that's them being a
bit naive. We've all fooled around with
it. We've all used it. Everyone knows
the term hallucination at this point,
right? Currently, I don't think that
we're at a place where we could say that
we can fully trust what we're getting
when we put in a question. And maybe
there's some questions you have higher
level of trust over others. But a lot of
your trust comes from the question of
how readily available is this
information? How many different
information sources are there? Well, the
world of alts is a very opaque world for
the most part and partly by regulation,
right? If I were to go into chatpt and
ask a question about small cap buyout
funds in Europe, am I confident that it
has a lot of data sources that I can
pull from to then give intelligent and
correct information on that type of a
strategy? Maybe. But I don't know that
I'd have that 100% confidence. And so in
the short term, Kaya continues to be a
source of credibility, reliability, and
confidence that what we're sharing is
accurate, complete, and appropriate. And
I think that that will remain relevant
for several years. I don't know when,
but it will take some time before we all
can say with a high degree of confidence
that the questions we're asking the bot
are going to come back with a high level
of confidence that we can just accept
that that's true. So that's one thing
that I think is really important for us
to keep in mind and will continue to be
the reason why organizations like Kaya
exist and need to exist is that kind of
source of truth and credibility. But in
the long term I think it's a very very
fair question and so that you have to
kind of ask yourself what is it that
we're offering? There's still several
important answers to that. Some of them
include that there's rigor that we can
bring and a process that just can't be
replicated with chat GPT. You know, to
say, "Oh, I had chat GPT test me on
this." It's like, but then the other
thing too is like what can't be
replicated is the human element of it.
At the end of the day, KA is more than
just a test. It's more than just a
curriculum. It's the people who are
around it. It's the community members
that participate in our ecosystem. KA's
got so many touch points beyond just our
curriculum, our chapters, our events,
our podcasts, our webinars, all that
stuff. And you can't replicate that with
AI. At the end of the day to have human
connections, human interactions, human
engagement, that's the value of the
community and that's the value of an
organization like Kai is facilitating
that, bringing that together, creating
these touch points and creating
opportunities to to learn and engage
with others that's never going to be
able to be replicated by AI tool. Great
capstone observation, Steve. So, I'm
going to let that sit because it's a
great way to end this conversation. But
one final question for you and I think
we originally had this scheduled after
the seasonal break and I'm glad we got
it in because I believe there's enough
lead time for this current exam here and
I'm not asking you to shill an exam. I'm
asking you to jump up and down for why
professionalism matters. So how far into
the exam window and when is the next
exam offering? Our next exam window
takes place in September. Registration
is open now and will be open for the
next few months. We offer our exams
every March and every September. If this
September is not the right time for you,
then there's always next year. But we
welcome folks to join our community and
take that first step towards showing
their interest in being a continuous
learner and growing their knowledge and
expertise about the world of alternative
investments and allocating. Steve,
thanks for a great discussion. And I
once was a pretend academic in your
classroom, then a colleague, and then a
friend, and now still a friend and a
fellow member. I continue to learn a lot
from you, and I will put a bold
underscore on what Kaya is, and it is
much more than a curriculum and exam,
and I continue to learn a lot from the
various platforms and touch points, and
it's just been a fantastic experience
for me, and thank you for all that you
do. Well, Bill, I appreciate your
mentorship over the years and guidance
and to use your story about your compass
and that your ability to get from one
direction to another. I got to see that
firsthand. But the other compass that I
saw firsthand that just again, it's
maybe the highest compliment I feel like
I could pay anybody was your moral
compass. I always knew that we were
moving in the right direction in that
regard with you as our steward. The
advocacy that you had for our industry,
for our clients, for our members, as a
member myself, it just made me so proud
to have that association. And so I
really thank you for that. It was
something that I cherish. Well,
hopefully that candle does not go out
until I'm six feet
under. But I appreciate that, Steve.
It's how I've been wired. And I had a
very important mentor, Desi Heathwood,
who's also been on this platform, and
he's in his 80s, and he did it as a
favor to me. I don't think it was his
favorite thing to do, but he ingrained
on me early on when I was in the asset
management business, as we've heard
about this dual responsibility that
Bogle talks about where you have
responsibility to partners and
shareholders and also clients on the
other side. You've got to be transparent
when that coin is being pushed one way
or the other. But he would always say,
what would the client think? what would
their reaction be if this was on page
one of the Wall Street Journal when
people used to buy and read newspapers
and that stuck with me and it's an
important way to end this because so
many professionals early on in their
career hopefully you'll be listening to
this hopefully sign up for Kaya but as
you said earlier and it's a great way to
conclude this conversation you can be
the smartest investor you can understand
every aspect of the Kaya curriculum
nobody's done it yet I don't believe but
you could
100% on the exam. But unless you have
some form of an ethical compass, you're
dead to the investor. You're dead
certainly to me. And your value in this
industry is of very little worth in my
opinion. So, a great way to end it,
Steve. And you allow me to quickly jump
back up on a soap box that's very
important to me. Absolutely. Couldn't
say it better myself. So, thank you for
that.
[Music]
Thank you for listening to Educational
Alpha. I'm your host, Bill Kelly. Learn
more about the KA Association and
subscribe to the show at kaya.org.
That's
caia.org. See you next time.
