Novlex is a sustainable packaging
company. We uh produce thousands of
products used mostly in food service but
also industrial markets, egg markets.
Noble X is one of the largest packaging
players in the US. They supply a number
of products that people use in everyday
life. McDonald's, Kroger's, Burger King,
the full suite of kind of food and
delivery providers, quick service
restaurants, and grocery. Novlex is a
company that we've tracked as a firm for
almost a decade since its inception.
Actually, it really checked the box of
everything we look for in a packaging
company. Sustainability orientation and
exposure to the food and delivery and
markets. The goals that we had at the
time of the Apollo transaction was
really driven on finding a partner that
understood and wanted to be a part of
our journey. You know, Apollo has been
in the packaging space for a long time
and so they knew it, they understood it.
They brought to the table their
organization, the Apps Group, really to
help drive value inside of of our
company.
[Music]
The Novlex acquisition of Pactive is
really transformative and created one of
the largest packaging companies in the
entire industry. We had the
relationships to really drive that
acquisition, but we've helped them raise
the debt financing for the transaction.
>> We're really focused on continuing the
the great legacy that that Stan and the
team have built and furthering the the
growth profile, whether that's from more
rapidly growing product lineups, whether
that's from sustainability. Many of the
kinds of projects that Novo X is doing
right now around energy efficiency and
renewable energy, those are things that
bring dollars to the bottom line. We
were able to really uncover where there
were significant energy efficiency
opportunities which is active
decarbonization.
>> The success of the company is not me,
it's not one individual. Uh it's that
team that every day is making products.
Novlex's broad-based employee award
program is extremely important to me.
The Apollo team was extremely supportive
and very excited about making that
happen. And so now as we grow value, all
family members share in that growth. I
can't tell you where we'll be in 35
years, but I know that we'll be a better
company.
[Music]
