[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives.
Today we have another edition of Deal
Debrief where we get the download on
recent transactions from the people who
put them together. On this episode, Matt
Hutton from our infrastructure group
walks us through the turnaround and
successful exit of NGPL or the Natural
Gas Pipeline of America, one of the
largest and most geographically diverse
longhaul natural gas pipeline systems in
North
America. Matt, welcome to another
episode of Deal Debrief. It's good to
have you. Thanks for having me. I'd love
for you to just tell me a little bit
about yourself, how long you've been at
Brookfield, and what you do. Great. I'm
a managing partner with Brookfield's
infrastructure platform. So, in that
role, I oversee our investment
activities in energy and industrial
infrastructure. All in, I've been with
Brookfield for about 9 years now. And
over that period, I've been fortunate to
witness really the substantial growth of
our infrastructure platform, which has
grown about six times from less than 50
billion of assets under management a
decade ago to about 320 billion today.
That's quite a number for such a short
period of time. In the way Brookfield
thinks about infrastructure, what does
that platform contain for our firm?
Sure. When we look at infrastructure
opportunities, it really encompasses any
type of businesses or assets that really
have a consistent set of core
characteristics. So those are
investments that are essential hard
assets that provide critical services to
society. It's businesses that have high
barriers to entry and those that are
underpinned by long-term predictable and
inflation protected cash flows. So
typically the types of businesses there
encompass transportation assets, data
and telecom businesses,
utilities as well as energy
infrastructure and midstream businesses.
Cool. NGPL falls into that
infrastructure platform, right? Can you
just give us a breakdown on what NGPL
does and how that business has evolved
in recent years? So NGPL which really is
an acronym for the natural gas pipeline
of America. It's a longhaul natural gas
pipeline system in the US. So in that
role it transports natural gas around
the country on behalf of customers which
comprise some of the largest utilities,
energy producers, power generators and
LG exporters in the country. It is one
of the largest and most geographically
diverse systems in North America. It
comprises over 9,000 miles of large
diameter pipeline and almost 300 billion
cubic feet of natural gas storage. And
with that, it connects to every major
gas producing basin in the US.
Everything from the Perian Basin to the
Marcelus basin in the northeast and the
Eagle Furd in southern Texas. Maybe just
to put that size into a bit of
perspective, if the pipeline were
stretched out end to end, it would span
from New York all the way to Sydney,
Australia. It's like halfway around the
world. It's very large. And on the gas
storage side, there's enough gas storage
capacity across the system to fit 8,000
Empire State buildings. Wow. Is there a
way we can conceptualize how much of
that gas is being used all the time?
What is the run rate of that fuel? Yeah.
So, the way to think about it is this
system transports about 6% of all gas
demand in the US. So, not an
insignificant amount. There's a lot of
pipelines that are transporting fuels
all over the world. This is obviously a
very big one. Why were we as Brookfield
attracted to this business and
specifically to NGPL in particular? How
do we evaluate those kinds of
opportunities? Any infrastructure
investment has core characteristics.
Essential hard asset, critical to
society, high barriers to entry, and
underpinned by long-term predictable
inflation protected cash flows. So,
pipeline investments, especially NGPL,
really check all of the boxes on this
one. Now, our history on NGPL, it's
quite a storied one. Our original
investment goes back to 2009. And at
that time we opportunistically acquired
a portfolio of infrastructure assets
from Babcock and Brown which was an
Australian asset manager that was on the
brink of liquidation. NGPL was a
component of that portfolio and we had a
minority interest in the business. In
2015, we then partnered with a strategic
partner who also had a minority
ownership in NGPL at the time really to
opportunistically recapitalize that
business and buy out the minority
shareholders which allowed us to gain
full control of the business and that
was really a step change in our
investment. we really saw an opportunity
to take this control position and
reposition the strategy of the business
to focus on both growth as well as
deleveraging and that was a strategy
that was ultimately successful and
culminated in a recent exit. So I'm
curious, obviously coming into this over
15 years ago, were we already gaining
some experience in pipeline type
operations and businesses or was this
still early days for Brookfield
infrastructure at that time? One theme
that we've seen really over the past
couple of decades is we have seen
perpetual growth in energy demand really
globally, but also especially so across
the US. And part of that step change was
with the shale revolution that started
in 2008. And that growth in energy
demand, we see it continuing today. And
we've been a major investor in those
types of energy infrastructure
businesses. Not just natural gas, but
our portfolio also spans renewables. It
expands into nuclear power as well. And
that's a trend as we look forward. we
very much expect to continue today just
across pipeline and midstream businesses
that we manage. It includes pipelines in
the US, in Canada, in Mexico, in Brazil,
India, in Abu Dhabi. So, we have a long
storyried history of knowing how to
manage these businesses in order to
create long-term value creation.
What kind of use cases or power
frameworks is natural gas used in
specifically that might be different
from the rest of the energy ecosystem?
Natural gas plays a wider role than what
we see other types of traditional
sources of energy or sources of power be
utilized for. So when we think about
natural gas, one component is for
electricity through natural gas fired
power plants which continue to be a very
important component of energy demand
especially so in this country. But
secondly, gas is used for things like
home heating. It's used for industrial
processes, but also importantly in the
US, we are one of the major exporters of
natural gas through liqufied natural
gas, which is a very important component
of trade with our allies around the
world. There's many chapters to this
book. It's not just one moment in time
or one use case. Many chapters. Speaking
of chapters, we had this relationship
with NGPL that really evolved and
changed over time through these
different phases with the business and
different partners. Can you give us a
general summary for what ultimately we
prioritized in our work with them during
that ownership cycle to support this
really critical piece of infrastructure?
I think the easiest way to think about
our NGPL investment is really in three
different phases. In phase one, which
I'll call before 2015 recapitalization,
there was a time when the business was
owned and controlled by six separate
shareholders, of which we were just one.
And with such fragmented ownership, it
was challenging to establish consensus
and really a clear direction or strategy
for the asset. We also saw the business
experience some regulatory headwinds
which led to an overleveraged balance
sheet and an unclear deleveraging path
just given the lack of consensus from
the shareholders on whether to pursue
growth opportunities which would have
ultimately benefited in deleveraging the
balance sheet and that really led to the
second phase which began in 2015. That
was when we saw the opportunity to
partner with Kinder Morgan to buy out
the other shareholders to recapitalize
the balance sheet and to increase our
respective ownership to about 50% each
which allowed us to take a co-control
position and be able to determine the
strategy of the business. Now critically
here by consolidating decisionmaking and
strategy we were able to leverage our
operating expertise to refocus the
business really on pursuing highly
accreative growth opportunities
alongside a very like-minded worldclass
partner in Kinder Morgan which resulted
in substantial EBIT dot growth and
deleveraging and that ultimately led to
phase three which began in 2021 when we
felt like that goal was accomplished.
pushed as far as implementing our
strategy and we began to
opportunistically explore an exit of our
investment and there was a bas in there
once we were really in deep with Kinder
Morgan around expansion of the pipeline
and some of these other strategic
initiatives some really tangible
movements in the business that's right
and as far as the opportunity that we
saw it was really around three key
initiatives the first was improving the
base business secondly was pursuing
those highly accreative growth opport
opportunities that you mentioned and the
third was deleverting the business. But
it was really a combination of all three
of those phases that we thought would
best create long-term value in this
investment for us and ultimately derisk
the investment for our subsequent buyer.
How do we get to this precipice of
considering an exit and thinking about
this very important handing over of
something that we've poured a lot of
focus and attention and care into? How
do we go about that? Our strategy was
really to put the asset into a
d-risisked and stable position that
would make it a strong and highly
desirable investment for our future
buyers. So in 2021, we thought this
objective was largely achieved. So we
began a disciplined and programmatic
sellown just given the size of our stake
at that time which was approaching $2
billion. Ultimately, we sold down our
interest via three separate patient sale
processes in order to maximize value and
to attract the widest prospective buyer
universe. Our latest sale, which
occurred earlier this year, just
represents the complete and successful
exit of this business. All told, our
exit has generated total proceeds of
about $1.7 billion, which crystallized
an attractive 18% irr and a three times
multiple of capital on our investment
since that 2015 recap. Typically, for
high quality infrastructure investments,
the target return level is often in the
mid- teens. So, we do feel that the
successful implementation of this
business plan allowed us to outperform
what our expectations were when we
originally made the investment. I'm
curious, did we learn new things as part
of this experience with NGPL or was this
really about seeing something here that
we might have seen before and really
knowing that we could bring a playbook
to this partnership? First off, what's
exciting about our business is we're
always learning new things in each of
our investments. That being said, we've
been around over a hundred years. We
manage over a trillion dollars of
aumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumumum.
Over that period of time, we've gained a
lot of insight on what can go wrong at
businesses, but also how to fix it and
how to maximize these assets in order to
achieve the best long-term value and
ultimately a successful outcome. With
that, one of the consistent themes is
being able to take a very
operationsoriented approach into these
businesses, but really coupling that
with opportunistic and patient capital
that leads to successful investment
outcomes across different market cycles.
Now often times our operating expertise
is at its highest value when we have
control over an asset and the power to
make decisions on both the capital and
operationsoriented side of the business.
We do often see situations where we are
acquiring businesses that have had
legacy fragmented ownership and we have
the ability to come in in a control
position and utilize our experience,
utilize our hands-on approach in order
to best position the business going
forward. As an example, we did just
announce another large marquee pipeline
investment in the US, which is the
acquisition of the Colonial Pipeline.
That's a business we'll also be
acquiring from a fragmented ownership
group of five settling shareholders. And
we think our experience with NGPL does
provide a very good reference playbook
for the type of opportunities we're
likely to see within that business.
It's interesting. I'm hearing you say
this is coming at this from both sides.
You can't have the operations without
some of the balance sheet and you can't
go into a company or a transaction like
this and only focus on capital structure
or allocation. You have to have it
handled from both sides. Has that been
your experience in other places too?
That's exactly our experience. You need
to have the capital to go in and support
the business and ensure that in every
capital allocation decision, you're
making that decision wearing a hat of
what is going to generate the best
long-term value in that business and
ultimately in your investment. But then
at the same time, you need to have a
active business plan and value creation
plan of how you're going to grow this
business and how you're going to
continue to derisk this business over
time. We think both are essential in
creating long-term value in any of our
investments. That sounds like the
definition of the high barrier to entry
you were mentioning earlier. That's
right. Is there something you've learned
from this experience with this specific
transaction or recently at the firm
that's surprised you that you didn't
expect from this experience? One of the
positive developments that I think we
saw through our NGPL exit but also we
continue to see in the market is despite
the uncertainty that we see in the
market today and we see in various
different times quality assets continue
to attract investors. So having exit
optionality and patience is a critical
thing when economic conditions are more
unpredictable like they are at the
current moment. Given we spent a lot of
time with NGPL across these different
phases as you mentioned, how have we
leveraged some of those learnings in
some of our other businesses? When we
look at the NGPL business, it spans
across the US and touches every major
pocket of natural gas demand across
North America. Being invested in that
business for over 15 years gave us
substantial insight into where we were
seeing pockets of growth on both the
demand side as well as the supply side.
Ultimately, that was a key learning that
helped underpin a number of subsequent
energy infrastructure investments that
we made across the continent. That
included everything from our investments
into US GF Coast LG export as well as a
number of investments we made in Western
Canadian gas infrastructure. So, not
just where to look, but what to look
for. It sounds like what to look for and
what are the key themes underpinning
long-term natural gas demand. It sounds
like there's a lot more out there for us
to take a look at, especially as things
continue to evolve in this space in
particular. We think there will be.
Great. Well, thanks for your time, Matt.
It was great to speak with you. Thanks
for coming on today. Thank you very
[Music]
[Applause]
much. Audiation
