Welcome to this demonstration on how
wealth management firms can use MSCI's
factor-based similarity score to quickly
and easily create a customized portfolio
solution while adhering to a client's
unique investment needs and preferences
inside MSCI Wealth Manager. Client
expectations are evolving, driving
increased demand for personalization
inside their investment portfolios. MSCI
wealth manager provides firms with the
capability to enable them to meet this
demand. We are starting with an existing
client
portfolio. This client already has a
model portfolio assigned from the wealth
management firm which is being used as a
benchmark.
This is the firm's recommended model
portfolio for this specific client based
on their goals and preferences. As we
compare the client portfolio to the
model portfolio, we notice the model
portfolio contains exposure to
alternatives and real estate, which are
asset classes that are not in the
client's current holdings. We can
compare the two portfolios across a
variety of metrics, some of which are
presented at the top. Reviewing the
asset allocation data table allows us to
obtain greater insight on the
differences between the model and client
portfolios and see the individual
holdings of both. In choosing the model
portfolio to act as the benchmark to
compare the current holdings against, we
see today there is a tracking error
against the model portfolio of 6.0%.
Next, let's look at Wealth Manager's
proprietary similarity score. The
similarity score provides a unique value
that is calculated using MSCI's
factor-based framework and evaluates the
true source of risk and return between
portfolios. Currently, the client's
portfolio has a score of 64%. Which is
not ideal and shows
misalignment. As we begin formulating a
recommendation to rebalance the client's
portfolio to better match the model
portfolio, there are personal
preferences that this client has that we
need to take into consideration. For
example, we will want to stay within the
prescribed investment policy statement
balance. Equity and fixed income ranges
are listed below. They would also like
to sell any exposure to tobacco and to
hold on to their energy infrastructure
investments. MSCI Wealth Manager also
allows for the client or firm to specify
individual securities that the client
might not want to sell. Here we are
adding a constraint on the fly to help
avoid the purchase of any mortgagebacked
securities or assetbacked securities.
Here is the list of the client's
individual constraints that we can
overlay on top of the investment policy
statement bounds in addition to the
firm's bounds and opinions of the
marketplace. With all the constraints
outlined, both individual and firm
based, a user can simply select the run
rebalance button and get a new third
rebalance portfolio that incorporates
all those individual preferences while
bringing the client's current portfolio
closer in line with the target model
portfolio. After we run the
optimization, we can see we have
successfully brought the new proposed
portfolio in line, improving the
tracking error and similarity score
while still adhering to our clients
unique needs. Whether it is optimizing
to individual preferences or other
wealth management needs, MSCI Wealth
Manager helps investment teams and
advisers streamline their portfolio
management workflows at scale. Learn
more at mseci.com/wealthmanager.
[Music]
