[music] Hello and welcome to the
enterprising investor, the flagship
investor podcast for CFA Institute. I am
Raymond Pang, senior researcher at CFA
Institute, and I'm thrilled to have Greg
Fischer on the show today. Greg holds a
PhD, is a CFA charter holder, and is a
fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. He
is a researcher and practitioner whose
career spans central banking, asset
management, think tanks and academia.
Greg's research sits at the intersection
of complexity science, economics and
finance where his research is
practitioner grounded and directly
relevant for the asset management
industry.
He began his career at the Bank of
England where he worked on monetary
policy, financial stability and asset
allocation before moving into the world
of global macro strategy and investment
management. Later he led a policy think
tank and gave speeches at the OECD and
the UK Parliament on applying complexity
thinking to economic and financial
systems. Today, Greg is a research
fellow at the Institute of Economics at
the Satana Institute for Advanced
Studies in Pisa, where he continues to
bridge research and practice. His recent
paper, Complexity Arbitrage, brings
together different areas of research in
complexity science into how emergent
behavior narratives and systemic
dynamics shape asset prices.
In this wide ranging conversation, we'll
explore what complexity means for
uncertainty first risk, implications for
financial modeling and applications for
systems level investing, and how
practitioners in the asset management
industry can use such areas in their
workflows and decision-m. Welcome to the
show, Greg.
>> Thank you very much. It's it's great to
be here. I think the CFA Institute holds
a really important role in the financial
sector. So, it's uh I'm honored to be
here.
>> Oh, great. Great. Let's uh let's jump
in. So maybe we can start the
conversation by really giving the
context of our discussion as we may have
those in the audience who may not be
aware of this topic or those who are
aware but only of one area of complexity
and less so of the broader field. So
from your perspective uh what does
complexity and systems thinking mean for
financial markets particularly for the
asset management industry?
>> Okay, that's uh that's a big question.
Let me see. It'll take a while to unpack
that question actually or rather unpack
my answer to that question. But let me
start with pointing out that the word
complexity is really terrible. Uh and it
and I really wish we could go back in
time and and sort of stop using it and
and just, you know, nip it in the bud.
But unfortunately, it's been locked in
and we're stuck with it. uh for
listeners who are not familiar with with
complexity science for now can maybe
simply uh replace the word complexity
with systems because really
fundamentally complexity science is
about this the study of of systems and
and the sort of parts of systems and how
they interact so so complexity horrible
word uh just think systems for now and
in a few minutes I I'll come on and try
and unpack what I mean what I how I
define um complex systems so to to
answer your question what what I think I
I I would do. So one one of the
principles of complexity science is that
context matters, right? And and I know
that that's understood outside. So I
complexity science as well, but it but
context does matter. And so what I want
to do is put complexity science into its
historical context. Uh and so if you
just let me do that for a little while,
I need to kind of go back uh to to the
enlightenment. And then once I've done
that done that I will uh try to uh
define what I mean by complexity science
and then address the question you've
asked which is about the relevance for
for asset management. Um okay so the
historical context we um we have I'm
going to try and do this fairly quickly
but and I'm going to use very broad
brushstrokes. uh we have to go back to
to the enlightenment um two to 300 years
ago uh where
a a particular way of thinking emerged
and that that had two main features. One
came from Isaac Newton and and mechanics
so Newtonian mechanics and that that
treats the universe as like a clockwork
machine and and we're quite familiar
with that and it's it's based on cause
and effect. Um uh so that's that's
something we're very familiar with. But
the second the second uh issue or theme
within this mindset is really comes from
the spontaneous order literature. Uh and
we're used to thinking of this in
economics in terms of systems
gravitating to equilibrium. But there's
actually a broader literature and a and
a sort of broader sort of body of of
thinking which is specifically about
spontaneous order. And Friedrich Hayak
was was uh one of the most vocal
proponents of this in the 20th century.
But this does go back to the the likes
of Adam Ferguson and Adam Smith in the
alignment. And the broad idea is that is
that social systems gravitate to a state
of order that is beneficial to the to
the parts of that system system. And
they obviously this links with the idea
of self-organization.
So those two principles and we can go
into that into much more detail. I I
actually gave a speech at the London
inter London interdisciplinary school a
couple of weeks ago. So I've done a lot
of thinking about this recently and that
talk was was about this exact subject.
Uh we can go into that in more detail if
you like a bit later. Um but so this is
this is what I'm calling the mechanistic
mindset. And so it's this these two
principles of of mechanics or cause and
effect plus spontaneous order or
self-organization.
And I think a really good illustration
of how the world is complex and uh
doesn't quite work like a machine but we
tend to treat it as a machine is co 19.
So this this you know the world is
interconnected and dynamic and this
COVID 19 spread across the world very
quickly and took a lot of governments by
surprise um largely I think because a
lot of public policies kind of built on
this mechanistic uh mindset or
assumptions uh and so we're kind of
unprepared for these network type
effects. Um so lots of governments are
caught uh and then having to make a
policy mostly on the fly. Okay. And a
lot of those policies uh end up being
quite poor. Um but anyway that's so I
think COVID 19 is a good example of of
how we tend to frame the world and how
the world actually is uh and can catch
us out. Um so complexity science in this
context can be seen as a reaction to the
insufficiency
of that mindset that emerged from the
enlightenment to the mechanistic
mindset. Uh so so there and there are
something like five ancestral subjects
which from which complexity science is
is sort of from which it sort of emerged
and these ancestral subjects are I'll
I'll list them. They are uh general
systems theory, dynamical systems
theory, cybernetics, complex systems
theory and AI/information
theory. And if people want a really good
visual on this, um, Brian Castell, Brian
Castellani and Las Garretts have done a
really good map of this and it's called
the map of the complexity sciences 2021.
Uh, and your listeners can look that up
if they have access to the internet now
just to give a sense of of you know
these ancestral subjects. And it's and
and so this is now a huge subject. Okay.
It's it's it goes back decades and lots
of very clever people and lots of people
uh have contributed to it and now it's
and it's very large. Um so so that's so
what what I'll do is I think I'll pause
there and and just ask if if that's
clear so far and then I will go on to my
definition of complexity site.
>> Yeah. No, absolutely. You're absolutely
that absolutely and I think just hearing
the different areas which complexity
touches uh physics, biology, economics,
psychology, you know, there's so many
areas which you know complexity resides
and you know of course while our podcast
will be mainly focused on you know on on
finance particularly you know asset
management um it's really I think quite
useful to keep that sort of broader
picture in mind um and also just the
history as well of complexity. um you
know you mentioned some of the sort of
the earlier um areas u you know general
uh systems theory dynamical systems and
AI and you know AI has become quite a
bit of a a buzzword as well so you so
the fact that you know already you know
from you know that time it's already
been discussed really shows that
actually there's a long history to some
subjects um that you know are are quite
are quite hot or quite interesting now
but they really do have that long
history um so really it's been really
yeah very Good to get get the context.
>> Okay, great. So, I'll a couple of points
before I I start to talk about um the
relevance of complexity science for
asset management is uh first of all,
I'll I'll use the word patterns a lot in
this conversation, I think, and it's a
word that's used a lot by complexity
scientists or at least the ones I know.
Uh and we think of those as structured
relationships between the parts or
actors in the system. uh and it's a
quite a vague term. So let me be clear
about what I mean. It's things like
technologies such as circuit boards are
you know how they patterns of rel they
have like kind of they're patterned in a
way that kind of controls the flow of
information but also things like
business processes um and you know just
the way that in some companies or
organizations set up their processes to
kind of so they so there's a flow of
information and resources and so forth.
uh social norms I mentioned earlier are
a good example but also you can think of
sports teams and the tactics they use
like set pieces in football right um
those are kind of patterns that are
designed to sort of win a game um so the
idea of patterns is quite broad um the
second final point I'll may make by way
of context is is this that it's it's
very tempting to think of complexity
science as sitting to the side of um the
mechanistic mindset and sort being just
a different perspective. But I think
it's really important uh and I I realize
what I'm going to say is slightly
contentious. It's important to
understand I think that that complexity
science is a generalization
of the mechanistic mindset. And what do
I mean by that? So if you look at Thomas
Coon's work on paradigm changes in
science, he made the point that most or
all paradigm changes, the new paradigm
is a generalization of the previous
paradigm. which is to say that you know
so I'll give the example of of classical
physics and Einstein so Einstein
basically showed that classical physics
is a special case of relativity general
relativity uh so so and also within
within economics we have orthodox
economics and something I discussed in
my PhD thesis is if you break down
complexity economics into various
features if you take each of those
features and then constrain it
sufficiently you arrive at orthodox
theory
Okay. So, so complexity economics in my
opinion is large is essentially a
generalization in economics. Um, so, so
that's I think that's important because
I I don't want the audience to think
that complexity science is just a
different perspective actually in a
sense is a meta perspective um that that
can that actually values and can include
in a sense the mechanistic mindset and
realizes that that's that can be helpful
in many different contexts. But it but
it it also recognizes that that that
framing isn't particularly relevant in
in other contexts that are are much more
sort of comp complex and fluid. So
that's I think those those two things
are really important. Um is that am I
being clear?
>> Yeah, I I hope I'm not being too
abstract about this. That's that's kind
of one of my concerns.
>> No, I think yeah, I think that the
clarifiers which you put very important.
The firstly is again the mechanistic
mindset. there are situations where you
you know you would want to adopt that
sort of you know thinking and then you
know there's others where complexity and
that sort of is more suitable. Um and
then also again you you're sort of
differentiating that it's not about know
it's not a completely different
perspective again as you say it sits it
can sit on top you know of of the
mechanistic mindset and I and I think
that's important because again this is
not some detached theory but actually
all of these things you know um you can
you can create links and think about
together um and so yeah that's important
particularly for the you know financial
industry as we have some methodologies
and so we're thinking about you know
other methodologies I think having that
connection is you very you know is
important.
>> Okay,
>> great. Excellent. I I I I'm I'm glad I'm
being relatively clear. Uh but I realize
the difficulty here is is that we have a
finite amount of time, but these things
are very abstract and they're quite and
they're you know they're big subjects
that a lot of philosophers have got
their hands dirty and and and they're
quite difficult to kind of grasp in in
simple ways without without losing
people in you know deeply philosophical
terms. Um okay. So, so what I what I'll
do now is is now address the question
that you asked which is what's what is
the relevance um of this field for uh
for asset managers. Um and I'm very I I
have to say I'm very motivated by
practicalities. I I really want to
ensure that any theoretical work in this
area isn't just vague and abstract that
it's actually directly relevant and and
actually supports investment management.
Yeah. Um I think the first point I would
say that a lot of the theory in in
finance and also specifically directed
at asset management a lot of it's
actually founded on the mechanistic
mindset. Um so if you look at things
like modern portfolio theory and capital
pricing models and arbitrage pricing
theory that there actually a lot of
those are are built on the foundations
of the mechanistic mindset and there's
also there's also an assumption of what
we call erodicity um within within that
framework. Um I won't go into that in
detail because that's that's a very
that's a very complicated subject. Um
but so there are a bunch of assumptions
from the mechanistic mindset that
actually has made its way into theory.
Um and actually what we find is that a
lot of asset managers
uh have a tendency to ignore a lot of
this theory because it's unrealistic.
Okay. So I I had a I was back at my old
college having a reunion a few weeks ago
and I I was speaking to one of my
friends who was a successful asset
manager. I said, "Do you use any theory
at all in what you do?" No. Okay. And
and it's, you know, it's it's it's
there's a whole conversation as to why
that's why that's the case, but um so
that's that's one point I would make,
but I I'd also make the broader point
that the mechanistic mindset is pretty
ubiquitous and and it kind of gets we've
all of us in the west really have been
educated and and grown up in the west
will have the mechanistic mindset in our
mental models, right? We often treat the
world in that way in in a general sense.
And it can help in some ways if if you
know I'm if I'm catching a bus to get
get here I you know that mechanistic
mindset of kind of well I need to kind
of queue up and then get on the bus and
so on and so forth and lots of cause and
effect and it can be really helpful. Um
but actually uh so a lot of a lot of our
general thinking so even so if asset
managers uh ignore theory I think the
the the mechanistic mindset still creeps
in to decision making. Okay. Um so so
it's I think that that's those two broad
points are are I think important in
terms of what's the relevance for com of
complexity science uh for asset
management. So now I think I'll what
I'll quickly do is is uh talk about the
the paper I've written called complexity
arbitrage.
>> Yes. uh and that's that's relevant here
because what the premise of that paper
is essentially starts with the points
I've just made which is a lot of asset
prices
have been formed uh or have been heavily
influenced by the mechanistic mindset
right by asset managers just applying
that mindset and I should say I'm not
being critical of anyone here
>> I've grown up with this mindset I've had
to spend a lot of time thinking away
from it and and sort of rewiring my mind
but I've grown up in this in this
mindset. I was I worked in a pension
fund in a hedge fund and you know I was
I was using that way of thinking uh when
I was making decisions and making sense
of things.
>> Um so I'm guilty of it as well. So I'm
not being critical um of people but what
I so complexity arbitrage starts with
this point that um that prices are
essentially uh heavily influenced by the
complex by the um um financial prices
are heavily influenced by the
mechanistic mindset. And one my opinion
is that if you take complexity science
and you start to make sense of your
context with complexity science and make
decisions with it, you can improve your
decision- making within asset
management. And that's not just about
making more money. That's about kind of
managing risk and uncertainty better.
>> Um that's about, you know, considering
environmental, social, and governance
features as well. uh and also managing
you know your assets better over time.
So the the erodicity non-urgodicity um
theme within complexity science shows
that shows that actually we there are we
need to be careful about how we think of
returns over time. Um so that's that's
the general point and I should obviously
flag that I'm using arbitrage before
people kind of you know contact me and
say you're using arbitrage in a terrible
way. I am using in a very general way.
Right? So I know that arbitrage has a
certain technical definition in the
finance literature. Um but I'm using it
in a very broad sense that you can
basically improve how you make decisions
and run your portfolios better using
using complexity sites. Um so that's it.
That's that's my that's that's my answer
to your question. I realize I've
probably taken 10 minutes to answer your
question. Uh do you have any how how
does that sit with you?
>> Yeah. No, I think the one point as well
is you know it's you know just hearing
what what you had to say is sort of the
educational context right I think you
know maybe there's a way of thinking or
the way that you know whether it was
schools or universities maybe there's a
certain structure um to the
methodologies were introduced um and so
as you you know you learn that and you
take that within your you know within
your job or you know within your as
asset manager you know I suppose that
sort of carries on so and And I think
you know and that's a whole you know
another subject on the educational part
of course that we could we could sit
down and talk about um and how that's
from sort of financial thinking but I
just thought that was really interesting
because again it kind of it adds another
dimension into okay we're using these
methods as well but you know where are
we hearing about these methods and so I
think you know thinking about this area
it's not just about you know doing it in
practice but also actually how could
that those ideas be formed you know even
in the early stages when we're at school
or university. Yeah.
>> Um so, you know, that was, you know,
that was very, you know, interesting to
hear.
>> I just wanted to touch on something, you
know, you you just mentioned about sort
of uncertainty and risk and maybe that's
something we can sort of delve a little
bit more, you know, deeply into because
>> actually can we pause a second because
you had a question that you were
planning to ask more about? Uh yes the
qu one of the questions um yeah just
just before we touch on to that is maybe
just um thinking okay we've talked about
complexity and sort of systems thinking
in finance um and maybe it's good as
well to provide sort of more context if
we could name or we can maybe mention
some individuals or firms who are
adopting such thinking. Yeah,
absolutely. And I'm definitely not alone
um in this area. Although in terms of I
I'll mention a whole bunch of names uh
that I I really appreciate and and value
their work, but it's difficult to
there's a boundary of problem here. I
don't know where to kind of draw the
line because there's some work in for
example evolutionary finance which is
excellent. Some of my colleagues at
Santana are working in this plus other
people. Um and so that and but they're
working in finance in general, not
necessarily specifically asset
management. Uh and there's also the
question about where do you draw the
line of complexity science? Uh because
evolutionary finance uses it's kind of a
cousin of complexity science. Uh but let
me I so I'll I'll just cherrypick the
people that I I've really come to
appreciate um over time. And so I'll
start with the academics and I would
first of all say Brian Arthur who set up
the um economics department. So well
actually he he he was the first person
to run the economics department at the
Santa Fe Institute and
>> he and his colleagues did some great
work on what they call the artificial
stock market and that's got some really
great um value there. We can dive into
that deeper if you want. I'd say in
London actually there's um the London
Mathematical Laboratory under Ole Peters
and Col Canorton. Um they've done a lot
of great work on on this issue of
non-legodicity.
Um uh so I would I would tip my hat to
them. And there's also um Dne Farmer uh
and Eric Binhawker in ina Oxford. Um
they've Dwayne in particular has done
some really great work with with
modeling um and promoting the use of
agent-based modeling which I think is
fantastic.
>> Um so but I would also mention the
second category of people I would
mention I call them bridging people that
that both work in academia a bit and
also in in sort of real world asset
management. And you had Rick Bookstabber
here um yes two or three weeks ago uh
and and he's he wrote a great book a few
years ago uh on this subject. So Greek
Rick is great to um to listen to. Um
>> he understands what's going on here. Um
there's also a couple of people at the
CFA Institute who recently wrote a paper
on on reframing financial markets which
is yourself and Jeanviv Haymon. Um so
that was obviously a delight for me to
read and you know it was it was quite
cathartic to to read something from the
CF Institute on this subject. Um I would
flag also a friend colleague of mine
Graeme Boyd who's who's trying to
operationalize this this point of
non-aggoticity in his company Evolute 6.
>> Uh and also I'd mention Jean Phipe
Buchar capital fund management. Um John
Phipe is is a little bit more on the
quantity econophysicsy side and that's a
lot of criticism. Uh he's done a lot of
really good theoretical work and he's
made money in in asset management. Um so
I have to tip my hat to him as well.
>> Um asset management companies. This is
particularly interesting for me is that
there are actually a couple of worth
mentioning as well as capital assignment
management. Then these are more on the
fundamental side uh of asset management
which is Bailey Gford and a company a
smaller company called NZS Capital
that's based in Colorado. Um Baya
Gford's in Edinburgh. Um these as I say
are more on the fundamental side. Um and
Bayy Gfords is is has been here in this
area for a few years now. um and and and
actually invested some money in this
area. So Dne Farmer, who I mentioned
just now, is the Bailey Gford Professor
of Complexity Science.
>> They've also funded Ole Peters's work at
the London Mathematical Laboratory on
non-legaticity. So they've they've
actually, you know, put their money
where their mouth is.
>> Uh and of you know, I've been I've
listened to some of their some of their
um asset managers and, you know, one of
them in London was just talking about
Stuart Calfman, you know, who is who's a
big name in the complexity science uh
world. So definitely tip my hat to
Bailey Gford. Uh there's also so I
mentioned also NZS.
>> Yes.
>> Uh run by Brenton Johns and Brad
Slingerland. Um they have a really cool
paper on their website. So if you Google
NZS Capital, uh Brenton's pretty much my
age, so there's lots of really cool '
80s pop culture references in their in
their white paper and it's quite
amusing. The the last thing I'd mention
in terms of people uh is is actually to
mention of someone specific who I' I've
never met but I understand uh so this is
James Anderson. Uh he was a Bailey Gford
for quite a few years and my
understanding is that is that he took
quite a a significant role in bringing
complexity science into into their into
their thinking. Uh he's now a managing
partner in London at uh Lingato
Investment Management. So I would I
would those are the people that I've
I've cherrypicked and I hope I had
offended anyone uh by not mentioning
them. Um so that's uh yeah so that's
that would be my answer to your question
but there is one last thing I I would
say if you don't if you don't mind um I
was thinking about what to say in this
podcast and I I think there's
>> what I think there are two way in terms
of practical implications of complexity
science for you know asset managers on
the ground who are managing money. Yeah,
>> I think it's good idea to think of two
waves and the first wave is that we can
take complexity science as it is in a
general in a sort of general sense
>> and think through what are the
implications uh that we can work out
from that and and talk to asset managers
and sort of you know and and so I've
spent a couple of years thinking about
that general complexity sort of field
and a lot of principles and concepts
that come from it and and thinking about
the relevance practical relevance for
asset managers And my paper complexity
arbitrage is is essentially about that.
But I would also uh but I would say
there's a second wave that we're still
waiting for, right? And what I would say
is that there's a lot we need to do a
lot of theoretical work, I think, to
stitch complexity science together with
asset management, right? And what I mean
by that is that I I'm not aware of
anyone addressing questions like what is
the complexity science equivalent of
modern portfolio theory? What is the
complexity science equivalent of
arbitrage pricing theory or the
efficient markets hypothesis? All these
foundational things within within
orthodox finance. I I don't really see
anyone, you know, I don't see any
research centers focus on those
questions. So I think the second wave is
going to have to be you know probably
hundreds of of people years of research
>> um you know across potentially multiple
research teams to really think about
this question of of stitching the two
together. So there's a lot of work that
kind of looks at complexity science and
sort of finance side by side but there
is much less about kind of just
stitching them together and saying well
what are the implications? let's let's
talk to the asset managers and let's
kind of unpack this and and and and you
know replace modern portfolio theory
with different theories. Um and I think
what that work will lead to a second
wave of practical implications. Uh and I
think that's that's partly what I want
to work on. So I think that's that's a
useful way of thinking.
>> Yeah. No. Yeah. First of all, yeah,
there's I think you've just given sort
of the breadth, you know, again from
sort of for academic and industry and
people that bridge between the two who
are, you know, very much active and
working in this space um you know, from
my own my own backgrounds um because I
did a a PhD in financial maths. I'm
aware of some of the you know um
individuals that you mentioned like
Bushard um and John Farmer who focus
more on the sort of the quantitative
sides of you know complexity but you
know really sort of got a wider range of
people um I think it's again just
speaking to sort of the breadth and
who's you know very much invested in you
know in this area um and then the and
the second thing as well I mean talking
about sort of maybe the change in the
second wave and you know really thinking
about more sort complexity and violence
together and And I think that that's
going to require such a, you know, a
monumental effort, you know, and in
terms of not just those in academia, but
then industry and, you know, all of them
working together to really think about
these questions deeply. Um, and I'm sure
that's not going to be an easy process,
particularly when we think about those
challenges now, but then how that's
going to evolve in the next 10, 20, 50
years.
>> Abs. Absolutely. And I I should say that
you're you're bang on um that I think on
the quant side there is more going on to
kind of shifting between academia and
asset management if you can include if
you can include include quant and
trading and and quant approaches.
There's a lot more that's going on there
and and say Jean Philippe is also um on
on that side of things and on the quant
side and and trying to apply complexity
science. Um, so yes, so there's more
going on on the quant side, but I my own
motivation is more on the fundamental
side. I'm I'm I'm motivated by the fact
that the financial the asset management
industry manages something like $130
trillion of assets, right? And we need
to make sure that that that money is
channeled uh for the good of humanity
generally speaking. So I'm really
interested more I'm more interested in
in the fundamental side of of asset
management.
>> Yeah, that's great. Um, yes. So again I
you know I hope that you know for our
listeners you know really again giving
the historical you know the definitions
of complexity that we'll be talking
about and some of the just the key
players or you know a few of the key
players within this space you know again
really sort of highlighting the sort of
the depth of range um which complexity
has in finance. um you know I'd like to
you know at this part maybe dig a little
deeper into maybe a few areas of um
complexity and of course you know we can
we can only scratch the surface given
the sort of the depth and sort of the
range of topics but uh again I think
it'll be you know very interesting to
you know delve a little bit deeper into
you know a few things and particularly
those areas which are quite relevant to
you know asset management
>> um so one of the things that you had
mentioned actually is sort of
uncertainty and risk um and maybe we can
just unpack that a little more. Um
because you know sometimes you know when
we discuss them we we talk about them in
the same way. Um and so in finance for
example when we discuss risk um we're
often evaluating you know say assets
performance in terms of risk versus
return. Um so in this case the potential
gains compared to the the possible
losses. Um and you know again as
mentioned we sometimes use these terms
together uncertainty and risk. Uh but
they do refer to different things. Um so
maybe you know Greg for for our
listeners maybe you can just explain how
uncertainty uncertainty differs from
risk and why understanding this
distinction is particularly important
from a complexity perspective that
matters uh for asset management.
>> Yeah absolutely. Um so this is this is
one of my favorite subjects. Um the
first point to mention though is that um
you don't have to be an expert or be
familiar with complexity science to
understand this distinction right and
and to value it. But I find that the
complexity perspective sort of helps um
to understand it and I'll kind of
explain why. Um so let me let me start
by defining some terms and especially
defining what how I understand risk and
uncertainty and it's actually pretty
standard definition. So I'm not sort of
this is not just my opinion. Um so and
also there's a third term which is
ambiguity but um which I'll mention
briefly. Um, so when we thinking about
context and and sort of the when when we
have a context that we're interested in
and we're trying to work out what the
outcomes of the of that context is and
it could be just simply looking at the
price of a particular financial
security.
>> Um, so there are two questions that we
ask in this area. One is do we know what
all the outcomes are?
>> Okay. Uh and in some contexts like if
we're rolling a dieice, yes, we know we
I mean if we're rolling a fair die, we
know there's six outcomes. Okay. In
other contexts, like you know, sort of
the the war in Ukraine, if we're trying
to work out what the the outcome of that
is, that's a much more complex question
and there are far more outcomes than we
can possibly sit down and list.
>> Um so in one context we can say yes, we
know the outcomes and in other contexts
we say actually we don't know all the
outcomes. So the second question then is
if we do know the outcomes, do we know
how likely are likely they are to to
occur?
>> Okay, or what's the probability of those
of those outcomes? So again, throwing a
fair die, we know that the probability
is one six each of the outcomes.
>> But even if we could imagine some
scenarios in Ukraine, it's probably
difficult to, you know, pin down a
probability. um we could imagine some
you know subjective probabilities but um
it's much more difficult. So so we we
this leads us to a a neat 2 by two um
diagram if you like um where we have
full quadrants where you have known so
on the outcomes we have known and
unknown and on probabilities we know
what they are or we don't know what they
are. Okay. And risk is defined by
situations where we know what the
outcomes are and we know the
corresponding probabilities. So this is
classic you know risk um probability
probability density function is a kind
of is what we're talking about here.
>> Yes.
>> Um so that's that's one. Um so that's
risk. Uh uncertainty is when we don't
know the outcomes and of course that
means we don't know what the
probabilities of any outcomes are. Yeah.
Right. So that's where we're in the in
the realm of we just don't know. Okay.
So that's so that's uncertainty. And I'm
going to throw in ambiguity whilst we're
talking about this. That's where we we
know what the outcomes what the
potential outcomes are, but we don't
know the probability of those outcomes.
Okay. So like I say, it's helpful to
think of this in in terms of like a 2x
two matrix and and whether we know the
outcomes and whether we know the
probabilities or not. Um so that's um
that's where I would I would start. Do
you have is that clear at the moment?
>> Yeah. No definitely and I think it's
good exactly again the differentiation
of there the risk uncertainty in sort of
you know what are those outcomes um and
the probability of those outcomes you
know those are sort of 2D two kind of
quite distinctions there and so that for
risk you know we know you know how those
um you know we know what those outcomes
are generated and the probabilities of
those outcomes but then uncertainty you
know we have that unknown unknown um as
you're mentioning. So no that but
absolutely
>> clear. Okay. So um I should also
something about it tip my hat to both
Frank Knight and John Maynol Kanes who
who really kind of uh who really
initiated this this discussion of
uncertainty. Um so so with those
definitions in mind I would say the
mechanistic mindset so this is going
back to the discussion earlier um
actually has two different ways of
thinking about this. The strong form of
the mechanistic mindset is where you
have a perfect um clockwork universe
where there's no risk and no
uncertainty. And that's where basically
you know everything there is to know
about your context.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and you can predict everything
perfectly. Okay. So there's no risk,
right? And there's no uncertainty at
all.
>> But the weaker form of the mechanistic
mindset is open to risk.
>> Okay? So it accepts that we don't we
can't predict the future.
But the extent to which we don't know is
knowable. Right? So we have a so it
assumes a probability density function
and that's okay in some contexts like
rolling a die. Right? Yes.
>> Um so so that's so that's where I would
I would say that the that's where the
mechanistic mindset comes in is that
that the weaker form does accept risk
but it doesn't accept uncertainty. And I
I'm talking in very general terms here.
So that's where we're at in terms of uh
risk and uncertainty. Now, one of the
one of the things I did in my PhD
research was to dive further into the
nature of uncertainty. Um because
complexity science is much more open uh
to the fact that we just often don't
know what's going on, right? Or what's
going to happen. Um and so in my PhD
research I I found I I was looking at
various literatures like institutional
economics and game theory and and
complexity science and and actually I
discovered um five different what I'm
going to call sources of uncertainty.
Right? So instead of just calling
talking about uncertainty in quite a
vague way and sort of binary you know
things are uncertain or not it's
actually really helpful to to identify
and just acknowledge these five sources.
And I I'm I'm I'm not claiming these are
exhaustive. I'm just saying I've seen
these in the literature and they're
worth unpacking and and discussing. Um
so once you open your mind to
uncertainty, you kind of you know you
can this is helpful as a way to frame
those different sorts of uncertainty. So
and and I'll quickly run through these
and by the way I am ignoring uh the
uncertainty linked to quantum mechanics.
So, so Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle, yes, I'm aware of that, but
I'm I'm just pushing that aside as as as
not particularly relevant here. Uh, and
I'm maybe maybe it is relevant, but I'm
not I'm not aware that
>> maybe another conversation.
>> Yes, that's um that's that's going
beyond my expertise. Um, so let me
quickly run through these five and these
are massive subjects, so but I it's I
have to just skip across the surface
because we don't have too long. So the
first one and I'm going to go from the
sort of easier and weaker forms of
uncertainty and and and progressively
work towards the sort of more
complicated and and stronger forms of
uncertainty. So the first is the most
obvious which is where you just lack
data. So you you're in some context and
you just lack some raw information,
right? You might need to know how many
cars are crossing London Bridge right
now for some reason, right? So that's
just pure data and that's obvious form
of uncertainty. Um the second of is
often conflated with that and that's
about knowledge and knowledge and data
are treated very different both in
philosophy and also in complexity
science. Knowledge is about how contexts
are patterned. Okay. So so it's about
how phenomena relate to other phenomena.
Okay. It's not so much about data. It's
about you know um you have you have a
bunch of people within an organization
and there's a kind of informal
friendship network or or network amongst
colleagues
>> that you don't know about right but
that's knowledge to kind of know who
everyone is is connected to within that
organization that's a sort of knowledge
and obviously this this this links to
scientific research right we're
unearthing the laws of the universe is
all about knowledge okay so that's
that's the second form of uncertainty
and so that just means we don't know
something. Okay. Um the third one is is
is what's um what I'm going to call
limited human cognition. So the universe
is vast, the economy is vast and and we
are sitting here with limited amounts of
ability to store information and process
information. Right? So in a sense we're
kind of ants on an antill in a way um
staring at the universe. Um so our
cognition is limited. Um and that that
goes beyond uh uh the the simple stuff
that's discussed in in economics on um
what's it called? The uh rationality.
It's gone in my head. Um so uh this was
bounded rationality. So this this this
goes beyond bounded rationality. This is
about you know this is about the genuine
way in which human cognition is limited.
So we might not so things might be going
on that we know we might know which are
knowable in principle but we can't
process because we have limited ability
to process information right
>> the fourth um so those first three are
discussed a lot by Douglas North who who
won the Nobel Prize for his work in
institutional economics and he he has a
book in the early 90s where he discusses
those three. Um, the fourth one, this is
where we start to get a little bit more
complicated. And the fourth source of
uncertainty is about is what I'm calling
mutual contingency in expectations
formation. And that's quite a
complicated um phrase, but it's
basically where let's say you and I are
driving along the road uh and I have to
form expectation. Let's say there are no
rules of the road. Okay? Right? I have
to form expectations about what you're
going to do in order to decide what I'm
going to do.
>> Right? So, I'm driving on the road and
you're driving and and we might meet um
and I might think you're going to turn
or whatever or fall, but you're trying
to do the same thing to me, right? And
and actually what happens is we can get
into a situation where there's paralysis
because I'm trying to anticipate you
who's trying to anticipate me who's
trying to anticipate you. So, there's
what we call an infinite regress
problem. And so that can actually lead
to paralysis in the situation or
mistakes being made. So you know we
could be driving along on the motorway
and if I if I misjudge if I get the
wrong expectation about you we could
both die.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So this so this is about
expectation formation. There are lots of
situations
uh where we we are we just don't know
what other people are going to do.
Right. And then the the fifth source of
uncertainty is um is what I'm just going
to call genuine novelty. And this is
where um this is the strongest form of
uncertainty. This is where phenomena
just emerge that are we can't even
anticipate in principle, right? They
just happen. Okay? And they're novel
which means that we can't anticipate
them by definition. Okay? That's a deep
subject, but I I I won't go too far into
it. There's there's a phrase called
ontological emergence which links to it,
which I I won't go into because it's
it'll take half an hour to unpack. Um so
that's those are those five um sources
of uncertainty. Um and I the the what
I'm going to do is make one point and
then I'll I'll pause um just to check
I'm you know I'm being comprehensible
here. Yes. Um the last point I'd make is
that in the in the context of how I've
defined risk and uncertainty and and
discuss uncertainty, I would make a I
would argue that asset management is
more about uncertainty than risk. Okay.
So I would say actually most of what
asset managers do is actually to to try
and mitigate uncertainty to try and
understand what's going in their context
>> and that risk is more the domain of the
insurance companies.
>> Okay, because risk is about stable
probability distributions
>> and you need that to to be able to price
insurance. So I would say and it's a
general it's a broad sweeping statement
that I I think that asset management is
more about uncertainty than risk. It's
not only about uncertainty. Uh there are
parts of risk. And the the last point
I'll make before pausing, I realize
that's the second time I've said I'm
going to make a point and then pause.
>> Um the last point I'll make is that I
know very well that the the that really
good risk managers understand what I'm
talking about and they're already there.
They know the difference between the two
and they also know that their job is
mostly about uncertainty management, not
risk management. So I know that there
are people out there that understand
this. So I'm not this is not just
something new I'm saying. I'm saying
there are people that that do understand
this and and I've talked to I've talked
to a few of these people. Um but the
important point is that the the
mechanistic mindset pulls us in one
direction to sort of to talk only about
risk. But reality sort of pulls us in
the other direction and and and
appreciates and to appreciate
uncertainty. But we're sort of caught in
the middle. Yes. Between those two. So
I'll pause there. I have a few things to
talk about in terms of the practical
implications of this. Um but I'll pause
there and just check that this is this
is going down. Okay.
>> Yeah. No, I I think and as well again I
think things I'm taking away is you know
uncertainty and you're packing the
different types of uncertainty and
that's important you know and I think
you know for example I'm thinking about
sort of the information maybe the
limited information. I think that can
also be from a perspective, right?
Because some some maybe I'm a you know
I'm a I have access to data and so
there's one part of uncertainty that you
know doesn't apply to me but for
somebody else they don't have access
into that information and so they have
high uncertainty within that area.
>> Absolutely. Um so you know even with
when we're talking about the same
uncertainty or type of uncertainty um
the level of that uncertainty even with
different you know individuals or firms
will vary you know for example based on
the information that you know you have
>> and and also the the if you don't mind I
that very much is important when it
comes to knowledge and expertise. So you
might have some expertise about some
context that someone else doesn't. So
that context is less uncertain for you
than it is for them.
>> Yes. Exactly. No. And I and again
exactly and that um you know that's
again very [snorts] you know very
important as well you know to to mention
there um I also was thinking you know
again because just just mentioning at
the start but very much a sort of you
know you know AI and I'm thinking about
you know how that applies particularly
as well you know within the um you know
the asset management context and I'm
thinking as well I think the particular
part with the mutual contingency
say you know we had systems you know or
AI systems where everyone adopts one and
so there's a sort of a predictably
predictability or known because you know
the decisions which the IIO will make on
you know a certain decision and so the
other a other AI systems are able to
predict that and so there's sort of a
unison there you know is is that I'm
just thinking if if we're going down
that path or if it's heading down that
direction where things are becoming much
more you know automized and is much more
you know within within AI does that does
that eliminate one of those would be can
eliminate one of those uncertainty ies
or or not. I know just no that's that's
an excellent that really is an excellent
question because there are um if you if
you start to think about the practical
implications of each of these sources of
uncertainty then in one simple sense AI
can help you with knowledge for example
um so we know that um research some
researcher have used AI entities uh to
research antibiotics and to identify new
antibiotics right so that to me is
knowledge that's kind of discovering new
knowledge and that's incredibly exciting
Um so that's where AI can help. Uh
another so another point is that um if
we have limited if we have limited human
cognition AI can supplement that
cognition. Right. So it's a second form
of uncertainty that the AI can help
with. But you're absolutely right and I
I was thinking we might end up talking
about this a little bit more in detail
later. Um but the the main risk with AI
um or one of the risks is is related to
model collapse. I don't know if you I
don't know if you're familiar with this.
Actually I think I have you know maybe
again we can discuss this well for our
viewers but I know that there's a paper
by one of my colleagues at C institute
you James Tate um that talks about
synthetic data and that concept of model
collapse does actually apply when you're
you know generating you know data from
you know a given process but maybe again
just give our viewers you
>> well yeah I mean it's so model collapse
is I'm not an expert in AI but my
understanding is where you have let's
say two AI entities that are making
decisions and generating creating some
output and they're basically both doing
that but both learning from each other
so they're both using each other's
output to train right and model collapse
is basically where that training
essentially turns into gibberish right
and the AI just learns something that is
you know they they basically just both
um the models the the AI models collapse
in the sense that they're no longer
useful in the real world okay and they
just make they come out with ideas that
just completely gibberish
>> so that's that's one of the problems s
with AI. Um um I'll just pause there and
say
I I did think about AI and this and this
I made quite a few notes about it. So
>> maybe it's better to kind of like push
the AI conversation to a bit later um
because because there's some really
interesting stuff to dive into and I
don't want to get too diverted from uh
risk and uh and uncertainty.
>> Sounds good. Um, so maybe what I can do
now is is quickly because I I as I say
I'm really motivated by the practical
question and and for each of these
sources you can think about what are the
practical implications
for in general but also for asset
managers. Um, so what I'll quickly do
and again it's it's frustrating because
this is a fascinating subject that I you
know we can dive really deeply into but
we don't have too long. So let me
quickly whittle through what I think are
some of the implications of of all I've
said on on risk and uncertainty. Yes. Um
and and feel free to jump in if I'm if
I'm you know if if any thoughts any
thoughts come to you. So I mean I think
first point is that knowing the
distinction between risk and uncertainty
and ambiguity is itself really powerful
because if we're if we're really too
influenced by the mechanistic mindset
then we're trying to just jam everything
into risk. You know, we're trying to
model we should we're trying to we're
we're trying to claim that that well,
one of the implications is that we we're
trying to find a future probability
distribution, you know, and force
ourselves to find it when actually none
might exist, right? It might not exist
at all. So, actually differentiating
between these and accepting um uh that
there might not be a probability
distribution defined is is quite
powerful. And this this I should say
this links to what I call my first
lesson in complexity science which is
humility.
>> Okay. So if once you start to emphasize
uncertainty then you get into this you
know you start to say well actually that
we don't know that much about everything
right and that actually we need to be a
little bit humble. Um so that's my first
lo anyway. So the next point I'd say is
that um that if we're in some context um
this this framework can be quite useful
to kind of almost in a checklist sense
is like if we're looking at this context
and we're where like I don't know Brazil
you know um what what are the what's the
nature of uncertainty right so if we're
thinking about buying some emerging
market debt from Brazil uh what's what
is the uncertainty we're facing and you
can kind of run through this as a
checklist in a sense um to say actually
yes most you might be end up saying
actually most of the problem is just
knowledge right or uh we need to
simulate um you know use use computer
simulations to kind of imagine the
future. Yeah.
>> Um so so those those are the sort of two
broad points but then I I quickly run
through for each of these sources where
where I think some of the implications
lie.
>> So the first one which is you know raw
data is is obvious and simple which is
you go and find more data or go and buy
it or go and employ someone that has
that data or or something like that. Um
the second one about knowledge is is
obviously you need to go out and do your
research and and acquire and find the
knowledge that you that you know that
you need. Um but this one of the
interesting things is that the the
mechanistic mindset tends to treat
knowledge as a once and for all problem
>> and and so it's like because all we need
to do is is understand how a context is
patterned now and it's pretty much not
going to change over time, right?
Because the mechanistic mindset tends to
assume that things don't change within a
context. Um whereas the complexity
mindset said that says actually no
contexts do change, right? And what that
essentially means is that you should be
continuously learning.
>> You can't just study something once and
for all. You've got to be continuously
learning and updating. And we know this
in a pragmatic sense, but it's again I'm
just identifying the tension between the
mechanistic mindset and and kind of
reality is that we tend to be kind of
pulled in in two different directions.
Um so the third the third source of of
uncertainty was limited human cognition.
And I would say that there are obvious
ways that we've talked about AI and I
would say that's those are cognitive
annexes, right? Computers are obviously
cognitive annexes and they they allow us
to store information and process it. Um
that I mean that's obvious. Um but also
in terms of unassisted uh cognition, the
the larger and more complicated as a
domain and again I'd come back to
Ukraine um the more you actually need
multiple perspectives. So if I were if I
were, I don't know, the secretary
general of the United Nations and I
wanted to understand what's going on in
Ukraine deeply, I would pull together
experts in uh in in the military, in
geopolitics,
experts in the region, psychologists,
economists, etc. And this this relates
to a concept that came out of
cybernetics called requisite variety.
And it's this idea that actually it's
really healthy to have variety in some
contexts. And here it's about you know
deploying uh expertise
or knowledge in a way for you to make
sense of the context and and we we kind
of know that but again um uh there is a
tendency sometimes to try to kind of
just say we you know we we just we just
need to find everything out about the
context. Uh and we can do that ourselves
without um without experts. Um and this
actually links to this wonderful phrase
um multi-perspectivalism
>> and this is idea of just valuing
multiple perspectives on a subject.
Yeah.
>> Um the so the the fourth source of
uncertainty I discussed um was was about
this um mutual contingency problem in
expectation formation
>> and there's lots of different ways um
and this is about stabilizing
expectations
and in institutional economics this is
discussed a lot um because institutions
like social norms and some regulations
and some laws
>> uh are there to stabilize expectations.
So, the rules of the road I mentioned
earlier, you know, I know that you're
going to drive on a particular side of
the road. I know what you're likely to
do at traffic lights.
>> I know what you're likely to do at
roundabouts and so and also on the
motorway when we're both going in the
same direction. The rules of the road
are there to stabilize expectations um
partly to keep people safe. Okay.
>> Uh or actually to to make journeys more
efficient. Yes. So um and but the the
broader fields or the broader concept of
coordination and cooperation are
important here because there are lots of
different ways we cooperate and
coordinate in the world. This is very
much the sort of broad theme of my PhD
thesis. Um and a lot of those uh forms
coordination and cooperation um they
they stabilize expectations. Okay. Um
and so we can think again about sports
teams tactics as well. So like when you
have a set piece in football and all the
all the players know exactly what
everyone else is going to do for the set
piece to work and and score a goal. Um
but I also mentioned Steve Jobs talked
about his role as the CEO of Apple as as
being like the conductor of the
orchestra,
>> right?
>> So all of these types of things because
he was criticized by coders because they
said you've never coded anything in your
life, right? And you're running a
basically a software issue or software
and hardware company. and his his
response was look I'm the conductor of
the orchestra right you're the string
section right and that's fine and you do
a great job but I'm the conductor so
there are lots of different ways in
which um we stabilize expectations and
even when you're looking cor at
corporations corporate strategies the
most effective corporate strategies are
ways of coordinating the actions of all
the people in the organization right so
really good strategies everyone's on on
on board with those strategies is if
they're if they're you know if they've
been formed bottom up and or legitimate.
Uh but that can really help people know
what everyone else is going to do in the
organization so they know what
themselves what they have to do. Okay.
So that's that's um that's the fourth um
source of uncertainty. And then the
fifth um source I mentioned is is is
genuine novelty. And it's tempting to
think actually we can't predict this. We
can't predict by nature. We can't
predict novel future events, right? In
terms of because these this is strongly
novel uh events that happen in the
future that we can't predict. Um but
actually you can you can handle these in
a second order sense in in this in that
you can be prepared for the unexpected.
Okay. So instead of trying to predict
the future, you just accept that the
future's uncertain and and you you
position yourself to and the words I
would use are, you know, resilience,
agility, and dexterity. uh and so so
those so those are the different ways in
which we've we've mitigated these forms
of uncertainty and they're more I mean
they're pretty generalizable but um in
in terms of they they're relevant in
lots of different fields um but they
obviously have uh relevance for for
asset managers in in making decisions
about portfolios and and assets um that
they that they long or short.
>> Yeah. Um I should so the last thing I
would say uh before drawing a line under
this is that um this does not mean that
we need to throw away all risk
management tools and models at all. Not
at all. Um there's a lot of a lot of
really good work on the ground that
responds to the the uncertain nature of
reality and like I say lots of risk
mergers understand uncertainty. Um so
there's there's lots of things going on
and I'm not saying that it should all be
disposed of and we need to start all
over again.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So I'm drawing a line under there.
That's my uh that's my long answer to
your question about risk and
uncertainty.
>> No. Yeah. No, thank you. And I think you
know you've really detailed and
addressed each of those points of
uncertainty in the ways that we can you
know address or you know um you know be
you know be more be more comfortable
with that. And I think for you know what
I'm taking away one of those key
messages is about you know again being
comfortable. A lot of the time of
uncertainty we may there are a lot of
unknowns and unknowns and that it may
stay like that but I think you know
within asset management being aware of
you know what areas of uncertainty that
you may be exposed to and then thinking
about your positions and what you can do
to be more resilient and adaptive um you
know as you say I think it's really
important um and I think as well when
we're thinking about you know we're more
interconnected in terms of the
information that we have I think having
that more agility and adaptive
adaptiveness will become ever more
important.
>> Yeah, I I completely agree.
>> Great. Thank you. So, you know, that
was, you know, our kind of our
discussions there on sort of uncertainty
and risk. Um, and really just sort of
following on from that, I wanted to talk
a little bit about about modeling, um,
which, you know, which does follow quite
smoothly on I could think from
uncertainty risk and how sometimes we
may quantify um, you know, some of those
um, some of those risk aspects. So here
you know maybe just providing sort of a
high level you know particularly of
models um and financial models in
finance um and really they're sort of
used um to capture sort of an abstract
representation of a real world financial
situation um such situations involve a
range of tasks including decision-m
valuation forecasting and risk
management all of which are assisted by
or in many cases driven by financial
modeling. However, modeling the
underlying complexities of financial
markets present significant challenges.
Models are by necessity simplifications.
They abstract away much of the messiness
and unpredictability of real world
dynamics. Um, in this regard, how do you
see the use of models for asset
management, particularly when accounting
for the complexity in financial markets?
>> Yeah. Uh, again, this is a I find these
subjects fascinating and I can, you
know, I could talk for hours, but we
don't have time for that. Um so yeah um
so let me start again by uh with with a
mechanistic mindset and how that uh I
should emphasize that often this
mechanistic mindset is a straw person or
a straw man in older language uh and
that uh not I don't think there's a
single person that thinks in such an
extreme way but it's a helpful um it's a
it's a helpful orientation because uh we
are biased towards thinking in this way
I think by by how we've we've uh learned
growing up. Um so the mechanistic
mindset I' I'd say encourage has a
number of features. One is it it tends
to be it tends to promote this
philosophical term called positivism.
And what that means is there's the idea
that everything can be captured,
measured and formalized. Okay? So if
you're looking at a context, you know,
you should be able to model it perfectly
and quantify it perfectly uh and just
formalize the whole thing. Um so that we
just know how the whole the whole
context works right. Um the there's also
an assumption the second point to make
about the mechanistic mindset. There's
also an assumption that patterns are
broadly stable within contexts
>> um or rather the context is is is
static. Um and you can think of the
mathematicians can think of simil a
bunch of simultaneous differential
equations where the equations are
actually static but but the system can
still evolve. its variables change,
right? But but the equations are which
you'll understand better than I do. Um
and also the third point I'd make is
that there's generally an assumption
that there's similarity across contexts.
Okay, so one financial market over here
in equities is very similar to a
financial market in equities over here.
>> Okay, so there's sort of similarities
between concepts. Um and that mindset
can can give rise to a number of
mistakes. Um and a lot of it tends to be
uh sophisticated extrapolation I would
say right and and I give a good example
of this is is vanilla filler vanilla
value at risk models uh where you look
at historical data you you calibrate
your variance coariance matrix um so you
have some sense of future volatility and
then you make the assumption that the
the future is going to be pretty much
the same as the past. So you then say
like at the 5% confidence level that
we're going to we we might lose this
amount or more, right? Um and I'm not
saying that that's totally useless at
all. I'm just saying that's a good
example of the mechanistic mindset. And
that number can be really useful, right?
It can be better having that number than
not provided that the users of of that
number know exactly what it is. And
there's a kind of assumption that that
sort of history repeats itself. Um, so
that's that's I think a good example of
of what I'm talking about when I when I
mention the me mechanistic mindset. And
it's interesting. We don't need to go
into this in detail, but it's the
efficient markets hypothesis tends to
encourage that type of thinking that
actually there's this variance coariance
matrix will stay the same in the future.
Okay. Um so that aside um if I were to I
can address those three points from a
complexity science perspective and I'd
say that well first of all not
everything can be captured measured and
formalized we kind of know that in pra
pragmatic terms um but it sort of
accepts actually a lot of things are
qualitative um and uh we can't we can't
measure everything and we can't capture
everything in a formal model
>> um there's also the second point which
is like I've I actually mentioned this
before that the idea that contexts
change over time and that the underlying
patterns change. So thinking about
differential equations, the equations
themselves might change, right? Um so
systems can repattern themselves in
unpredictable ways. For example, new
technology might just hit the context
and then the whole context is is you
know kind of blown up um like a a deck
of cards thrown into the air. Um but
also context can vary, right? I mean we
kind of know this pragmatically but
again the mechanistic mindset sort of
encourage you to to think in other ways.
Um so let me pause there and just check
if if that's all there's a whole there's
a whole bunch of things I I want to say
from that broad introduction.
>> Uh but I'll just stop and and check if
that's all okay.
>> Yeah. No, exactly. And I think you've
really highlighted some you know really
good points in terms of modeling. And I
think when I think about modeling and
you know how we motivate sometimes
models, we do look at that historical
context and a lot of it is you know
history driven. What events have
happened in the past, what risks have we
been exposed to in the past and we try
to extrapolate from that to say that
those potentially are the main focuses
of risk that we should think about in
the future. But you know from a systems
perspective that's not necessarily the
case and that's because those systems
change because of the regulation new
technologies is saying key players and I
think that's really important not only
to be aware of but then to also adapt
our models and the way we analyze risk
from that perspective. Absolutely.
>> So really interesting.
>> Yeah. Thank you. And I I should flag for
for the listeners that you do have a lot
of expertise in this area. So um for
this area please chip in and tell tell
me if I'm talking nonsense. It's a
pleasure to hear you speak of course.
>> Okay. So what I'll do is I'll run
through a few points um that I think are
offered about models from the complexity
science perspective. Um uh so let me let
me just sort of run through uh first of
all there are some complexity scientists
who say that it we really shouldn't use
any models at all right that actually
we can't capture the complexity of
context so we shouldn't try and it's
dangerous to try and I don't agree with
that really I agree in some contexts
that are very fluid and are kind of
repattling themselves very quickly I
think that's true because because
there's no point in kind of trying to
create a snapshot I don't think if we're
interested in the future
>> creating a snapshot it suddenly becomes
obsolete. So a model can come very
quickly obsolete. So if the context is
changing fast um but I don't agree
generally that that models are useless.
Um so I would let me just quickly pause
to read this. Um
yeah the so the the way I generally
view this is if we take a broad view of
of modeling and what models are I would
say that we human beings model all of
the time with our heads right or within
our own cognition we are you and I are
currently modeling the room we're
sitting in the conversation right your
body language my body we're creating
models uh in our own minds cognitive
models Um, so we we do that naturally
all the time and I think formal models
can be just an extension of of what
we're already thinking about. So it can
be really helpful to to to express how a
context looks like. Um, so I don't think
that formal models is really that big a
jump from the fact that we we do model
all the time in our minds. Um, and I
think that formal models can help for
example in being us being transparent
about our own thinking. So if I were to
do develop a model of some context, you
can look at it. Yes. I think you're
missing things there, right? And
critique it and that's that's helpful.
Um we can also some of my colleagues at
the Santana uh in Santana uh in
complexity science uh take groups of
people and have modeled context by
co-creating a model um by interviewing
and and discussing with lots of people
within a context uh and developing an
agent-based model based on those
conversations, right? And it's and
that's really kind of democratic in a
way. that's that's a really powerful way
of developing and then giving feedback
um getting feedback from those
participants on the model to kind of
improve it. So I think that's a valuable
way of of doing models um but also uh
talking about limited cognition is that
um if we can formalize these things for
example build an agent-based model often
we can simulate
>> and and our minds are not very good at
simulating in a way that computers are.
So that's another powerful reason why I
think can that models can be very
effective. So okay so that's that's
broadly how I I think of it. Um so I
have a bunch of other points but I
thought I'd just pause because I I'm
really interested in your perspective. I
think the you know because this is an
area that you know I had done in my you
know in my part of my PhD and also with
some of my work that I've been doing at
C institute and I think in terms of the
communication side has been quite an
important part of when you develop a
model and particularly quantitative
model you are able to you know in on on
paper and particularly formalize some of
those thoughts um and some of the
complexity that you may want to you know
which your model shows and I think you
know having that can
You know it's a very useful tool but at
the same time again you do make those
simplifications and assumptions there
and so um you always have to caveat the
things you know which you develop with
your model with okay we are this is the
objective it is trying to capture this
but we're not able to capture uh all
aspects because of a b and c um and I
think it goes back to sort of the
humility part of understanding okay what
your model can and cannot do
>> because if the the sort of the wrong
thing potentially something dangerous is
that if you don't know what it can't do,
then you use it for a case which
actually it's not intended for or maybe
it can't capture. Um and so that can
really sort of you know lead to
extremely high levels of you know of
risk which you know you you know your
asset allocation or you may face
>> um you know um as as asset asset
manager. Um so I think that's you know
that's really important and again it's
important to recognize the things that
you know models cannot do as well as
well as can as we're you know in today's
world we de developing such advanced
models financial climate you know um AI
and you know understanding those
limitations is very important
>> absolutely I completely agree with you
and I'm sort of given your expertise on
models I'm kind of relieved that that
you you you have the same sort of
perspective as I do. Um so what I
thought I might do is I I wrote a few
points down whilst I was thinking about
um this question. So I thought I might
unpack those um and uh and then we can
carry on discussing it. Um, so I think
the one of the key points here is, and
this actually a point that Jeanviv
emphasized with me the other day, your
colleague who wrote the the paper on
complexity science is that you've got to
be aware of your aims when you're
modeling, right? And that that tells you
sort of what's what's salient and what's
not salient in a model and and also what
you where it's okay to make assumptions
and where it's okay to emit certain
things. Um, so I think being aware of
your aims is is really critical because
I think sometimes we can think of
modeling as we're trying to create an
objective model that does everything.
Actually, we we we just need to know
what the aims are and we just have to be
conscious of of of basically who's using
that model and to in order to and that
and that informs how you build a model
and what it can contain. So that's I
think that's one of the first points I
would make. Um uh I would say also I
mean almost stepping outside of of
modeling is that um
in fact what you were saying just now
about humility and and limitations of
models. I I think there's a counterpart
to that which is to be sensitive and to
value qualitative information and
qualitative perspectives and expertise
on subjects. I think there's a sort of
rebalancing
um from pure quantitative you got to
model everything towards actually an
appreciation of of you know the sort of
qualitative side of analysis and and so
forth and research. Um I would say that
uh within this debate and this is one of
those subjects that we don't have time
to delve into too much but there's
there's a term in this area called
instrumentalism. Um, and it's often
contrasted with realism. Uh, and broadly
speaking, instrumentalism in in
economics and finance is borrows quite
heavily from Milton Freriedman's
attitude towards it. And it's this idea
that models don't have to be realistic
on the inside. If if you think of a
model as a black box, they don't have to
be too realistic as long as they're
correlated with your context. Okay?
Whereas actually complexity science I
won't go into all the arguments um but
complexity science would say that uh
that actually models should be realistic
actually the content of the model that
models are more resilient when they're
more realistic I think. Um so so that's
one point um I would I would make. Um
another point is um
Murray Gelman um said something quite
profound or or this is a phrase that's
associated with him. uh I think he said
it in a conference once which is imagine
how difficult physics would be if
electrons could think right and that and
that if you think about that's a
profound question or a profound
statement because it kind of points to
how just how complex human domains are
because we are so so in a lot of natural
systems we can broadly speaking set
stand aside from them and and sort of
watch them dispatch they um I'm very
aware of the slit screen experiment
experiments in quantum mechanics
[laughter] and so and and that but but
generally speaking in a in a lot of
natural systems we humans can can step
outside the context and just observe.
>> But in in human systems if we want to
model contexts that include human beings
human mental models are a part of the
context.
>> Okay. And that's a really important
point that we often think abstract away
from. Orthodox economics would say well
we just assume rationality.
>> Yes. um or substantive rationality and
and okay, that's one approach. But if we
want to build relatively realistic
models of the context, then we have to
have the humans in there. But there's a
there's there's a point that's really
powerful that's related to this, which
is Soros's um reference to reflexivity.
And that is about if you have some
context and some people acting in the
context like it could be some some
industry or some financial market that's
that's focused on some securities is
that you can have the the the mental
models of the people can can adjust and
they can make different decisions. But
then the context changes and the change
in the context can then shift shift the
mental models of the people right and
then that those new mental models the
change in mental models can change how
they made decisions which then changes
the context again. So th this is very
much related to reflexivity and and it's
an important point that basically is is
is this co- this co-evolution between
the rest of the context and the human
beings and that's incredibly difficult
to pick up in models and and it and and
it points and it goes to your point
about you know the limitations you know
often we just can't pick up those
dynamics and then we have to just accept
that we're we're looking at quite a
short time horizon. Yeah.
>> So I'll I'll pause there. I've got a few
other things to say but I thought I'd
let you
>> I was just going to say I think that
point on modeling and what
differentiates say modeling within say
you know finance economics social
sciences to and say you know maybe like
physics and biology is the fact that the
models that we develop in finance can
influence the system which can in turn
influence the models themselves. um you
know for example if in physics if I in
physics if I come up with a model or
maybe a very incorrect model for say
gravity um that's not going to impact
gravity you know gravity would still be
you know 9 9.81 81 or whatever number
that is.
>> Absolutely.
>> But you know within finance if I come up
with a model and say if you know I'm a
very large institutional player within a
given asset or a given aspect say you
know if I'm setting interest rates on
inflation and I come up with a model
that will have an effect on those
interest rates inflation or that asset
class. Um and so that's really mindful
you to to have because again that sort
of feedback that sort of interaction
plays a much bigger part on the modern
side in finance and economics and other
areas than it does in say you know
physics and chemistry.
>> Absolutely. And the the other person I'd
mention in this area is is Charles
Goodhart because um I I'm guessing some
listeners are thinking good heart rule
in what you just said. Uh because he he
Charles Goodhart he was talking more
about monetary policy and inflation at
the time in the 70s but he was basically
pointing to the idea that if you if you
target a variable that where there's
some strong correlation over a long
history of time if you target a variable
that's linked to this correlation then
the correlation itself can change. And
that's one of the reasons why these
instrumentalist models uh don't perform
very well is that you can you can have
the sort of good heart law effect. Um so
but that also relates to like you say if
you have a model that is being used
across the board in the industry and
it's suddenly you know released onto the
industry and everyone starts using it
can create a repatterning of the system.
Right. That then actually undermines the
model itself.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> And that's that's a really powerful
point. Um so thank you for making it.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> So, let me I'll mention a few other
points. Um, so I think that complexity
science um is promotes the idea of using
multiple heterogeneous models. Okay. Um
I think the mechanistic mindset is a
little pushes us more towards you know
finding one gorous model that that kind
of you know represents the whole system.
But actually complexity science
recognizes that actually it's great to
have if possible it's great to have
multiple models and the that kind of
look at the system from different
perspectives and this again uh relates
to the concept of requisite variety I
mentioned earlier that that sort of come
out of that came out of um uh
cybernetics. Um, another thing I'd say
that that it comes from a good friend of
mine, Richard Carter. He met he he used
this uh phrase in a in a in a in a call
we had uh with some people. He's an AI
expert and he had this phrase hold the
model lightly, right? And what he means
by that is is don't base all of your
decisions on like one or multiple
models, right? Just know that the model
is an opinion or a perspective on the
subject. generate some opinion. Let's
say generate some numbers that you can
help, but hold them lightly. Don't don't
kind of just assume that that model is
perfect and you should just listen only
to the model. Um, listen to other voices
and hold the model lightly. Okay. And I
just I I think that's very beautiful and
poetic. So I I would say that the next
point actually is is something you
mentioned in conversation uh when we
talked last week um which is really
balancing uh between
um reality between a model reflecting
reality and being tractable
>> right so so being because it's important
that the use end users of models
understand the limitations of the model
right otherwise they can make bad
decisions so in order for them to
understand the model often these models
have to be tractable, have to be
understandable to those users. Um, but
at the same time, reality might be
pulling the model towards being more
complicated.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so there's a balance to be struck
and and I don't think you can come out
with one. You can't come out on one
side. It's just pragmatically in the
context you it's good to have models
that are relatively simple. And there's
good research on saying that actually
simple models can be very powerful. You
I think a lot more than we realize. Um,
the next point I'd make is is something
that I know some asset management
companies do already and I think it's
made its way into some regulations which
is apply governance and risk controls to
your models. Okay. So if you are using
multiple models in you know various
contexts keep an eye on which which are
performing well and which are performing
poorly and when and why. um so that you
can then build up an understanding of of
you know which models are better to
deploy in some context.
>> Um so I'd say that's um that's another
important point. I got two more points
to make which is uh when you're modeling
and if if if we're thinking in a sort of
machine-like way often we can miss out
some sort of complexity related
patterns.
>> So things like feedback effects and
emergence. Um so getting the ontology
right of the model is important and and
building in you know relevant complexity
principles I think is really important.
Um I think the last point I would make
is that um
ah yes so so there's a broad theme here
as we shift I think as the world is
shifting away from the mechanistic
mindset and towards something that's
more complexity like or systems like
there's also a shift I think broadly
away from mathematical models towards
agent-based models or computational
models okay this I'm making a broad
overgeneralization
mathematics is incredibly powerful
as you know, uh I'm I'm not devaluing
that at all,
>> but and this is a point that Rick made a
few weeks ago in in his in the podcast
um with Genevieve uh is is and it links
very much to uh computational
irreducibility, right? You c you can't
often you can't apply closed form
mathematical models to complex contacts,
right? they're just you're trying to
squeeze a round peg into a square hole,
right?
>> Um so often um complex contexts require
something like agent-based modeling
because you can tailor the model, right?
And make it more appropriate for that
particular context. And Brian Arthur's
talked about this and and he to
paraphrase something he said that um
mathematical models in when you're
looking at complex contexts are often a
very good first first order
approximation. Okay, they can be very
powerful. Um, but often you need if you
want to model the context better or more
accurately or more realistically, you
need to shift into computation. Um, so
that so that's a broad I would say
there's and and and Brian actually made
wrote a paper that contained this point
that there's there seems to be a broad
shift from the mathematical perspective
to a computational perspective. Um so
that's yeah I'll draw a line there and
uh draw a line under that and and see if
you got any any thoughts on any of that.
Well, I was just going to say, you know,
in terms of the first point in terms of,
you know, again, some mathematical
models can, you know, sort of first
order you approximations. I would say I
think, you know, I think John Vonu, I
think, made even more general statement
about models. And again, it's about
models are at best an approximation of
reality. And I think, you know, that's
again, you know, that's important to
remember that we we have all these very,
you know, sophisticated and more, you
know, advanced models, but again, you
know, they are approximations. Again,
keeping that in mind when you're using
those models is is very important. Um,
and I I would say in terms of what I'm
seeing in terms of the research that
I've done is that we we are moving a lot
towards the computational sides. Um,
that and I think we've been afforded um
the you know those tools um and the
analysis because of the computing power
and the data that we have. Um and so you
know that's been quite exciting for
research. Um and so um but then also
again recognizing you know the
computations and what they can do um and
really under and understanding the basis
of those models is important and you
know in terms of how you're
understanding models it's you know it's
like um it's like you know it's like
building blocks you know you have the
ground layer and then you you keep you
you understand the next layer the next
layer and it's looking at all those
layers together in terms of your model
um would really give you that sort of
that comprehensive view.
>> Absolutely. I'm I'm I'm glad to hear
that we're we're sort of um yeah on the
same page as they say. Um I will
actually Yeah. And I I want to quickly
you mentioned uh vonoman um point and
obviously um George box made something
similar.
>> All models are wrong but some are
useful.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And uh often people throw
that at me when I talk about kind of you
know the mechanistic mindset and
mistakes we've made with models. But my
reaction to that is is actually to to um
to paraphrase animal farm which is some
models are more accurate than others.
Okay. So and so there's there is and I
know that um that that there there's a
lot of subjectivity about these things
and personal opinions, but I would say
that actually um there are some models
that are just simply more accurate than
others. Um, and so just because
something is a model doesn't mean it's
fully legitimate, right? Um, so yeah, so
that's my reaction is to kind of
basically paraphrase animal farms. Some
models are more accurate than others.
>> I haven't heard that since, you know, my
early secondary school days studying
that.
>> The George box over the animal farm.
>> Yeah. Animal Farm. Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, that's great. Okay. So, I thought we
maybe we can touch on one last topic um
which um is on the area of systems level
investing. Um so this is sort of you
know a newer area for me and definitely
developing my sort of interest and sort
of my understanding through my
co-authored paper with with Genevieve um
on on reframing uh financial markets. Um
so very interesting um but let me just
give sort of a short summary of what you
know what this area is and then get your
thoughts on it. Um so while while broad
in definition systems level investing is
an approach that treats capital markets
as complex interconnected systems and
aims to enhance long-term returns by
strengthening strengthening the
resilience of those systems themselves
eg financial environmental or social. In
practice, systems level investing
accepts that a large share of long
horizon portfolio outcomes comes outside
of marketwide drivers um and uses
approaches such as capital allocation,
stewardship, and policy engagement to
reduce systemwide risks that improve the
health of the overall market ecology. Um
so in this broad space, what are your
views on systems level investing and the
role of complexity in this space?
>> Okay. Um so I think I need to qualify a
lot more here than I've done so far
which is I'm this is not an area I've
got huge amount of expertise in.
>> Um uh I do know some things about it and
I've I've rubbed shoulders with some
people in this area. Um and we can also
talk about um total portfolio approaches
as well because they sort of tend to be
put into the same basket as systems
investing. uh but my my understanding of
systems investing um and it's been very
it's it's exploded in the last sort of
five years or so you know kind of 15
reports I found online talking about
this um uh my understand so I think the
the lineage one of the points here is
that the lineage of systems investing is
slightly different to complexity science
it's from a more system science uh and
they are close cousins but it's but the
names that tend to pop up or are J
forester Jay Forester and Donna Meadows.
Um so that so that's and that's so
that's a different kind of angle to
slightly different angle to complexity
science and so the lineage is important
and path dependence and all that.
>> Uh and like you say there's a strong
focus on planetary systems and
sustainability science and long-term
stewardship and and the system they're
talking about are the all the systems
are the wider systems environmental
systems and so forth. Um and there's a I
think a general understanding or
emphasis on investors investors being
systems actors and so I I value that
immensely because they are they are
influencing investors influence the
whole system. Um uh there's a lot of
overlap with with what I've talked about
um um so far. Um I would say perhaps the
main difference I've identified um to
the extent I'm familiar with this um um
this terrain is that I I they're doing
great a great job of where I think they
they believe investors should go to,
right? And sort of almost trying to
bring the future forwards and and I
value that massively. Um I think I think
the the values or the uh the normative
perspective that they have um is
incredibly important. Um I'm trying to
in a sense what you probably got a sense
of um is I'm trying to start with where
most asset management um people are now
right how they're dealing with
portfolios whether they're doing ESG or
not. Okay. And I'm I'm really interested
in in in supporting them and and where
you know that $130 trillion
is being is being managed. Um so that's
that's kind of my emphasis. Um um and so
in a sense, systems investing has been
more radical than than what I'm talking
about. Um I fully I just want to be very
clear that I fully support um what's
behind what they're trying to do. We
need to make sure the the planet is
sustainable. We have you know, we've
made lots of mistakes with the
environment. Um and you know, we've uh
we've destroyed communities, you know,
across the world. um and we we make uh
lots of mistakes with with governance
and long-term stewardship. So I I I
fully appreciate what the what that
perspective is trying to do and I want I
want the financial system to to move
more aggressively into in that
direction, but I I'm sort of in a sense
kind of coming out at asset managers
more so under the radar to support them
with what they're currently doing and
and to be inclusive of all asset
managers.
>> Um the total portfolio approach my my
this is really interesting. I I hadn't
come across it um until you mentioned it
um the other day to be honest or rather
I came across it in your report that you
wrote with with Jeanvie.
>> Yes.
>> Um and but my understanding is that is
essentially a governance move. So that
that um replaces um strategic asset
allocation approaches. So rather than a
a sort of board of governors and and
trustees um you know setting a bunch of
benchmarks and proportions of the
portfolio in benchmarks
>> um and then telling the in the chief
investment officer you've got to invest
in this way. They get rid of that and
just say our our aims are X Y and Zed.
>> Uh and that then chief investment
officer and your team you can now go
ahead and try and achieve those aims.
Yes.
>> Right. So it's it's kind of replace
replaces the kind of traditional
strategic asset allocation. I think that
approach is very would ena would really
enable what I'm what I'm talking about
and a kind of complexity informed
approach to asset management.
>> It's not necess it doesn't necessarily
lead to it right because you can still
do very standard asset management
because so it's it's my understanding is
more of a governance approach. Um but I
think both are very compatible. I don't
think there's any incompatibility with
what I'm talking about. Um they just
have slightly different perspectives uh
and and values to what I'm I'm currently
trying to work on.
>> Yes. No. Yeah. No, I think it's you know
good to you know again clarify you know
it's again it doesn't mean you know
systems investing doesn't necessarily
mean you know you're straight into sort
of you know complexity thinking. you
know one can do one does may do systems
level investing but may do it I know
from a
mechanistic mindset or a given way which
maybe is not incorporating complexity so
it's good as you say to qualify you know
maybe the difference
>> yeah absolutely and and I would flag
that the there's a slightly awkward
argument often between what people who
consider themselves complexity
scientists and those that see themselves
more as system scientists even though
they're very close cousins and and
there's no consensus definition on both.
So, I have to be careful what I'm
saying. But often the complexity science
uh crowd say that system scientists tend
to treat systems as broadly stable.
Yeah.
>> Right. Uh as as if they're kind of
fixed, that all we need to do is then
repatent the system to how we want it
and then we can just leave it.
>> Yeah.
>> Whereas the complexity scientists say,
well, that yeah, okay, that's kind of
legitimate, but you have to understand
that the system will always repattern
itself over time and you have to account
for the unexpected and uncertainty and
so forth. And so I'm I'm I'm skating on
thin ice, but I think that um that's
worth noting in terms of the difference
between system science and complexity
science.
>> Absolutely.
>> Great. Um so you know
>> if you want to talk about AI
>> I was just going to mention you know
maybe you know because we have some time
um you know again you know this is such
a again very broad topic and very
popular uh right now um in terms of the
conversation um and I and I guess I just
wanted to open up the question to be
really broad about all of the things
that we've talked about whether it's
system investing modeling uncertainty
verse risk um I don't know where does
sort of in your view AI sit you know
with all of the topics there um and you
know what does that mean going forward
for for complexity
>> okay thank you um so first qualification
naturally is that I'm not an expert on
artificial intelligence uh I have more
expertise in complexity science I mean
they are uh there's a lot of overlap
between the two and AI uses a lot of
technology and uh and computational uh
approaches that are very compatible with
complexity science um I I'd make I think
I'd make a few points um with that that
qualification aside and the first is
that I think that complexity science is
a really helpful overarching framing for
understanding intelligence in general
okay in complex systems whether that's
human or artificial okay uh and and I
think that um I'm going to mention a
friend of mine Richard Carter again he's
his expertise in AI he wrote a really
good book called cognitive advantage
about five years ago um and he he argued
in that book that the current challenge
is is not so much how AI can take over
from human processes and thinking. It's
much more about how do we combine human
and artificial intelligence. Okay. And I
think that's a really powerful point um
because neither is better than the
other. They both have their strengths.
AI can do certain things really well and
certain things badly and human
intelligence can do certain things well
and certain things badly. So I think the
the aim there is really um so the
question is really sort of how do we
combine those things but I think complex
science is just a really quite nice sort
of conceptual wrapper to help us
understand because AI can can be
understood as you know a cognitive agent
>> right so it sits really well in my
definition of complex systems
>> so that's that's one point I'd make um a
second point I I'd make is about I'm I'm
really keen for any artificial entity uh
to have lines of accountab ability uh to
human beings because my worry is that
we're in situations when an AI entity
makes a decision and then nobody's
accountable for it. Okay, that's one of
my concerns. And I mean the most extreme
example of that obviously is in warfare,
you know. So if some if there's some
drone somewhere that that decides to
launch a missile based on some AI entity
and it kills some civilians, who is
accountable for that, right? we you know
we might even even need to uh rethink
the Geneva Convention based on that um
to to to add you know if any AI entity
kills civilians then whoever you know
introduced that AI um is responsible for
it okay so that's I mean obviously
that's a very extreme example but I
think in general we have to have lines
of accountability um but actually the
the we discussed this a little bit
earlier the third thing I'd mention is
linking it to uncertainty right so as I
said that um that AI has unearthed some
knowledge in a sense like with
antibiotics. So it is very it's very
helpful to mitigate the knowledge
problem we have in in some domains. Yes.
>> Um and also it can we can think of it in
terms of limited human cognition is that
it's a cognitive annex okay to us and
and that it can help us think about
things and yeah I often brainstorm with
chat DBT you know and you have to okay
yeah I mean you have to be really
careful using it and you've probably
learned this thing that you know
>> if you're going to take any action with
anything you've got from chat GBT you
verify it right ex outside of chat GBT
um and as long as Again, that's one of
the weaknesses of of of AI. As long as
you verify it, then I think it's it's
very powerful. Um, so that's so that's
so the fourth point I'd make is um
actually this is this is a kind of um
this is a worry of mine. I wouldn't
attach a large probability to this and
it relates to what we what we mentioned
earlier or we talked about with with
model collapse
>> is
I I'd imagine that there are quite a
range of of quantitative um asset
managers out there that are using AI
right now. Okay, I'm sure they've been
doing this for years. Um I'm not
familiar with this field, but like you
know it would be unimaginable that
they're not. My worry is that if that
trading becomes quite a large portion of
market activity, it can introduce
unstable dynamics to markets. And and my
worry is is kind of the equivalent of
model collapse is where AIs are making
decisions that lead to extreme
volatility. And so um um uh we mentioned
um the podcast from a couple of weeks
ago um
>> Jeanviv and Bookstabber.
>> Yeah. The the podcast from um a couple
of weeks ago or two or three weeks ago
from which involved Rick. He mentioned
uh the 1987 stock market crash and we
know what happened there. there were
circuit breakers in the system that led
people to sell as market prices were
declining and obviously that kind of
that was a feedback effect. You can
imagine something very very similar or
equivalent happening with AI where AI
models bounce off each other and you get
extreme volatility and and the broad
domain actually this links to um is is
endogenous volatility. So in complexity
science there is a small literature on
indogenous volatility and that's talking
about um how systems can actually
generate their own volatility and so
it's it's a bit of a dis dystopian
picture I'm I'm painting. I'm generally
optimistic about AI as contribution to
humanity,
>> but there are, you know, that is one of
my worries that, you know, the next
crash could actually be generated by AI
talking to each other, creating,
>> you know, these detrimental feedback
effects. Um, so yeah, I'll draw a line
under it there. Like I say, I'm not an
expert on AI,
>> but but those are the sorts of things
that I would I I would say.
>> Yeah. No, I think exactly. I think
when hearing sort of the conversations I
mean everyone recognizes the
capabilities and what AI can do and you
know I think there's definitely embrace
to sort of um its use I think where you
know a lot of the worries or potential
you know oversight may need to be
thought of is on the you know the risk
side as you say what happens if there
are trades or positions say you know
that AI is making um and then there's
sort of extremely you know highly
volatile or there's large losses and who
Does that affect you know does that
affect you know the retail investor does
that affect someone's pension that can
be real economic and social consequences
there. Um so really putting those rail
guards and those you know those circuit
breakers um to protect um those you know
within the financial industry that may
be exposed to those types of risks is
quite important
>> and I I would emphasize that it's very
tempting to say well if this is a
potentially systemic problem it's a
problem for the regulators. I would say
actually this is systemic problems are
in a sense all about responsibility
right so if you're a you know if you're
a quant and you're applying this stuff I
think you do have some responsibility
for how your AI is interacting with
other AI AI interacting with other AIs
um so I mean they might some people
might very much disagree with that but
actually I think that you know that that
we all have to take responsibility for
the whole system.
>> Exactly. And I think you know that also
just circles back to our whole
discussion in terms of you know
uncertainty versus risk and modeling
modeling and the things that you can do
in order to account for that complexity
and that you know that starts with your
processes and the way you make
decisions.
>> Absolutely.
>> Hang on.
>> Fantastic. Um so as you know maybe go
into some closing remarks. Um so you
know we've really touched on you know
quite a a range of topics in complexity.
um and you know how hopefully how such
methods and approaches are relevant for
practitioners. Um you know as we close
Greg you know what are your key
takeaways for which complexity and
systems based thinking is relevant for
the asset management industry. Okay, let
me I think I'd make five quick points um
that I think I've covered all these um
already. Um one is that complexity
science is an enormous shift in in how
we understand systems. Um and uh I think
I think the world is going to shift away
from the mechanistic mindset towards the
complexity mindset and it already has to
some extent. Um uh and there's and
there's a lot of material out there on
this. I'm not just making this up
myself. There's huge amounts of work
that's gone in complexity science. If
your readers want to um read a summary
paper I've I've written, then there's
one on my on my website which is an
introduction to complexity science for
asset managers. Um that's um
gregfisher.net. If you just have a poke
around, you'll find that. Um if your
listeners want to read a fantastic book
on this area, it's not it's not on
finance u but it's is the dowo of
complexity by Gene Bolton. uh and it
really unpacks in a superb way many of
the things I've I've talked about. Um uh
the Dao is spelled D AO. So the Dow of
complexity and some of your listeners
might be familiar with the Dao physics
and and so that book I think is the
broad equivalent um to the Dao physics.
So the Dow of complexity um so the
second point I'd make is just to
emphasize I'm obviously not alone in
doing all this stuff. there's other you
know people that are working and some
brilliant people working in this area.
Um
so I so so this is you know this is an
important area and that that I think is
becoming deeper and deeper and more and
more people are going to use it. Um but
I'd say that the third point I'd make to
link to that is that I think actually
the asset management industry and I I
don't mean to offend anyone is actually
behind the curve here. Complexity
science has been applied a lot in in
economics, in management science, in
some political science, in some public
policy. And so it's actually it's been
applied in in in a number of domains
increasingly. And I think the asset
management industry is even though there
are, you know, two or three asset
management companies or more, there are
probably more. Um, generally speaking,
the asset management industry is behind
the curve. Um uh so and so that makes my
fourth point is is to to link that to my
complexity arbitrage paper and I I I
realize saying this I've sent like a
terrible salesman but that's but I
really you know I I'm I'm saying this to
really kind of uh encourage the industry
um to manage assets better um for the
for the betterment of humanity really.
Um so my complexity arbitrage paper
really sort of actually summarizes um
seven papers I've written um on on
various subjects and we've t we've
discussed just two of them which is on
models and uncertainty versus risk.
>> There's other things I've talked about
like non-aggodicity which I've mentioned
a couple of times um thinking about so
one of my papers is about um asset
prices as emergent properties. Another
paper looks at the role of narratives in
financial markets. So there's so there's
a bunch of other things that we can talk
about. Um but the complexity arbitrage
paper sort of summarizes the similar
things I've written. Um most of which is
are unpublished. Uh and the fifth point
I'd make um which is actually what I
made I'm going to repeat what I said
earlier which is this point about
practicality. I'm I'm super keen for
this work to to be, you know, to land
with asset managers and to be
practically relevant on the ground. Uh
and I and as I said before, I think
there are two waves. We're in the we're
in the first wave, which is to apply
complexity thinking in a broad sense to
asset management. And that's what I've
been done for the last two years. But
the second wave has to get going. Um and
we have to focus on the questions I
asked earlier which is what are the
complexity equivalent of modern
portfolio theory, arbitrage pricing
theory, the efficient markets
hypothesis, how should asset managers
manage their portfolios from a
complexity science point of view.
There's a lot of work that needs to be
done to stitch those things together and
I think the practical practical
implications can come from that uh as a
kind of second wave of of advice.
>> Great. Awesome. So exactly and you know
you you mentioned exactly you know the
complexity arbitrage paper and some
maybe some other papers um you know that
you're that you're working on um are
there any other sort of plans and sort
of the research that you're doing uh at
Zentana um that our listeners should be
aware of?
>> Yeah. So um so I I finished my PhD
thesis uh a couple of years ago and I
and I I've decided to uh I've I've set
myself a bit of a mission for the next
10 to 15 years which is to really try
and facilitate the use the greater use
of complexity science and asset
management. Like I say there are some
companies already doing it. Um and I
think that that project broadly has
three themes. One is to work both work
on and catalyze the research in
academia.
I want to be integrated into into asset
managers to create to ensure that
there's practical development of of
implications, right? So that we're
focused on what does this really mean?
You know, the so what question? And the
third point is really to ensure the two
communities are talking to each other,
right? Because a lot of a lot of finance
is incredibly clever. Um, and this is
not the case with all of it, but a lot
of finance is incredibly clever, but
it's quite some distance away from
reality. Um, and I hope that doesn't
offend too many people, but there are
some but there's also great work that is
more connected. Um, and I want to make
sure that this work is is you know is
the two are connected. So theory work
works with pragmatic implications well.
So I want to do that bridging over the
next few years like I say 10 to 15. Part
of that is uh so my role at Santana for
the next year this a specific empirical
piece of work I want to do u which is to
interview say 20 to 25 asset managers to
make sense of their context through a
complexity lens and I should say that
having I've worked in a pension fund and
I've worked in a macro hedge fund and I
I'm a CFA charter holder so I have some
sense of of how the industry works but I
want to get into deeper conversations
about about their context, right? I want
to know investment managers, you know,
what does your world look like? Uh, from
a complexity science point of view with
a view, one of the one of the aims of
that is actually to say to the academic
community, produce a paper that says to
the academic community, look, this is
the world of asset management in reality
and this these are the needs it has. All
right? And and please service those
needs. Okay. Um, so that's that's
broadly what I want to do over the next
year or so. Um, and I'll I'll put a sort
of pitch out um to your listeners, which
is um if you're interested in being a
guinea pig, um then please connect with
me. Um I'll give you my um email address
if that's okay with you.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh which is I I won't use the Santana
email address um because it's too it's
just too long and complicated and easy
to get wrong. But my work email address
is gregregfisher.net.
Okay, which is much easier to to to to
note and use and not make a mistake. So,
but on top of those interviews, if any
any of the listeners, you know, if this
resonates, what I've said is resonates
with your listeners, then I'm open to
dialogue. I'm open to sort of just, you
know, um talking if there's any feedback
on what I've said. Um if anybody's
actually doing things out in the markets
that I'm not aware of, I'm really
interested to know. Um I I don't know
everything. you know, I'm I'm highly
uncertain about certain parts of the
market obviously. So, if anybody is
listening is interested, then please get
in touch. Um I you know, I'm I'm I'm all
ears and I'm I'm open to a dialogue with
with people who are interested.
>> Exciting stuff. Yeah, a lot there. Um
so, you know, really interesting. Um,
and so all all say is, you know, Greg,
um, you know, thank you very much, um,
for for coming uh, and, um, yeah, and
joining me on the show.
>> So, thank you very much.
>> It's been it's been wonderful to be here
and, uh, thank you for having me.
>> Yeah. And I am Raymond Pang and this has
been the enterprising investor. Thank
you.
