There are three groups that ask me
issue. It's the Beatles. Ginsbourg
when you are a French singer. Well you
Go next. You're a bit of a mess.
And you had a third one in mind.
They're the Daf punks because they're the same.
that's how to do the electro after the
DAF.
It's true that as I sing my
songs, I'm seen as a singer
But that's not how I do it.
see. I really see myself as a
composer. After all that, I am
I'm a singer, but I have no technique. By
For example, I hear of a festival in the
the next box. Oh, people are getting heated.
and all that. I never
heated up, but not once. I
I'm smoking cigarettes, I see a glass of
hand but I'm not warming up. I signed
My first contract, I must have been 22
years. But on the other hand, when I signed,
I wasn't ready at all. I wasn't from
A true professional. I was
completely out of it. So I have
I started my whole career like that.
a little off course. And you were that guy who
ruins his concerts, who does anything
What.
Yeah, absolutely. I
I was taking vodka showers, in case I was on
scene. I've done concerts completely drunk
He was my friend for a long time.
François, who looks like me. I was sending it
on stage in my place, I was doing some
songs and then I would come a little bit
After. But putting on a concert is
tremendous. And besides, there is a
The immense injustice is that it is
It's really the artist who should pay the
people to come. It's wonderful when
even being able to share how we see
the world. I have often said that I would have
I couldn't stand being unknown, but the
people are saying "Oh dear, that's something!"
"Which?" But actually, it seems to me
It's impossible not to express myself. I
She seasons me quite often. I find
It's terrible to say, but it is
It's true that grass and music are a
An almost perfect marriage.
Okay, here we go.
It's recording. Well, listen, there you go, that's it
It left faster than expected, huh? Listen
And I, however, am very
Glad to have you, Sébastien, and uh
and above all, I still lived through a
moment uh
very special by your side during this
show with Léa Salamé because I have
I had a Sébastien Tellier next to me
who was, uh, poker-faced for 2.5 hours and
Like, I bet you, then you were
really focused up front with your
glasses like that and then then a moment
It was, I said so myself, afterwards I
I believe, but at a certain point I know...
I'm not looking at you anymore because I've
said I don't know if he's here and so on and
Then when it was your turn, well, you...
light up and then you were there and then
Then I found you amazing and that's
Funny how that made me think so much
questions about, uh, about you, like you
Sébastien Télé, the artist, namely, is it
that it's the same person, uh, how?
what uh uh
And then lots of other things. your
creative process, your
the difference between thinking about
an album, a song, and thinking about
concerts because Clem was telling you at
the moment she saw you
the Olympia and that she told me in
I was crying when I got back to the second song.
Already. Um, I think she posted it then
You never post that many, huh?
but 48 shorts on Insta.
The lighting was okay. And, uh, and so
There you go, the good thing is
that all those who are listening to us, they
are lucky not to be in Paris, and
Well, they'll have the opportunity to see you.
because you're still going to do a
big tour. So, there you have it, but I
I'm going to stop talking because if
I'll keep going like this, I'll have the
the same feeling as with Léa Salamé.
So, let's begin, if you'd like.
by a question I ask my
Guests are usually like that, it makes me
allows you to know where it is located.
Sébastien Tellier, can you
Please introduce yourself? Yes. So, I
Hello, I'm Sébastien.
Tellier.
Uh, I was born in 1975.
I grew up in the distant suburbs, but that
I've lived in
Paris and I make music.
The distant suburbs, that's...
distant. Distant.
Far away, it's still the suburbs when
even. It's still in the Île-de-France region,
but it's the confines of
Île-de-France. This is Sergie Pontoise
but it was Sergie Pontoise from
almost 50 years old and which was a city
New and beautiful countryside setting, if you like.
It was nice because there wasn't
There is no in-between, it was the
town, last housing development, bam, the
campaign. I liked it.
I have a good team of Sergie, of
people who came here. That's where it comes from
Paul Lée, Amad from Bouskapé, is coming. You
I know Bouskapé, this media outlet rather
rap
And, uh, a good team, and me...
I knew Sergie
this new city because I believe
that my uncle was like a prosecutor
In fact, I spent time at Sergie's.
a few nights or a few and
It's true that it's still a
Special atmosphere, Sergie, huh?
This is a special new item; there are very
They had long ago filmed a movie that
was called I com ICAR with Yve Montan and
at one point there is a scene that must
move on to Dallas and in fact they
had come to film this scene by
economy to Sergie Pantoise. That gives a
I have a slight idea of
Sergie [ __ ]. But there was still
buildings with... I liked...
well, everything that was a little
the green tinged with brown, the green
brown, the balconies in brownish-green, of
entire building facades.
I love the sauce
green-brown with gold.
I like that. So, there weren't any
many, but there was a very small one
little. And then afterwards, I find that there is
Romert, who also came to make a film
to Sergie Pontoise, which should be called the
media library and something else, I know
Not really anymore. And he made it a
A little more arty, quite frankly. And it's a
Sergie Pontoise's vision
Arti. And I discovered that when
I was older where I didn't go
It was taken into account at the time, but it's true that he
It might have a slightly arty side too.
So how far did you go? 18 years old at
Sergie.
Yeah, that's 18 years. Yeah, yeah. SO,
But still, it's quite a suburban area.
It's boring, though, and as I...
I often say this when I have memories of
The basic point is that OK, it was good
The dish was perfect because it was
the fashion of rollerblading, skateboarding, BMX,
so it was
Since it was all brand new, there was
There are still skate ramps, though.
It also had BMX tracks.
There were tennis courts too.
So there are some nice little aspects to it after all.
but no other things,
lots of other things I like that there are
didn't have the style of super nice people
styled hair or wearing a great jacket or
Great shoes. I had a neighbor who
had a BMW, my father has one too
later but and the
Not many nice cars, some
Things like that. It lacked bread
What. That's the thing.
It's quite funny because
You're quite well-dressed, all things considered. It is
to say, uh, you see your little shoes
little patent leather shoes, little white jeans
Everything you're saying is true that
It's a thing, that's it, you always have
Is that inhabited? Yeah, I like that aspect
hull. I find
There are two interpretations of "coqué".
But you understood, I'm talking about
I understood a sort of
I actually quite like it. Uh, as and when
I'm thinking, uh...
what I really need actually uh
It's a practical and beautiful thing. So I
located in that area.
I don't like it when it's too difficult
so I don't put things with lots of
laced or something really baroque, I know
Not what.
But I like that it looks cool.
anyway. So here he is, my my
balance. In terms of style, it's
Practical and beautiful.
How would you define yourself? So, you say
musician,
I see myself as a musician because
it's true that as I sing my
songs, I'm seen as a singer
and then when we release records and
that we sing songs about it, good
Well, obviously, we're singers. But
That's not how I see myself.
I really see myself as a
composer. That's my primary job.
That's where I find that I am
Good. And then after everything else I
Do a little bit because nobody
can actually do it for me
I wrote texts so that it would fit
with my voice. I
the discs are designed to go with
who I am. So it's me who is a
I'm not really obliged to go and represent my
compos. But actually, in reality, I am...
I am a composer. After that, I am a
a little bit of a lyricist because ultimately,
I write the lyrics to my songs. And
But after all that, I am
I'm a singer, but I have no technique.
I've never, for example, heard a
festival in the next dressing room, oh the
People are getting heated and all that. Me, I
I'm never heated up, but not a single
times
smoking clubs, you know. But
I smoke cigarettes, I see a glass of
hand but I'm not warming up at all.
And how do we get to this point?
define ?
author, composer, I mean
especially when you come from Sergie like
That. So you, you still have a
previous, right, because your father was
I'm already involved in music, if I have
Read carefully.
Yes, that's it. Finally, in music,
He had always been passionate about
music, especially guitar music. He
does a lot of rhythm guitar and then
He also listened to a lot of music.
So, we listened to a lot of Pink Floyd at
the house and everything. And when he was
When he was young, he had played with the guys from
Magma before Magma was called Magma.
So, Magma, this progressive group.
Yeah. 1970s. Finally, they have
continued afterwards, but and so, but he has
I was never part of Magma because
I have often heard he did
part of Magma, but not at all. He has
just crossed paths from time to time
guys from Magma before Magma. And so
Well, he's the one who gave me the taste
music and who uh who
reassured in their choice of the
music
as a playground, finally and of
to move towards that. And I think that too
he really tried to
uh, to do everything possible so that I, of a
in a certain way to manipulate me but
calmly, what for, really I
eventually became a musician. I did
successful, that's all.
Well, the thing is, that's also...
Sometimes we take it away, we make music
out of rebellion over something like that.
Whereas I make music, uh
Like a good student, you know.
Were you a good student?
No. Ah, but then, but then in
parallel to that because we're getting there.
My mother was a teacher.
Oh [ __ ].
in a private school. So I had to
It shouldn't be too bad, though, when
Not even too disappointing, really. Or and then
uh so I was, I've always been turning
around 10 and a half on average. Good,
out of 20 of course. And then uh
I only had it once out of a whole...
year one 0.1
average over the whole year in
German.
OK.
So. I wasn't very good at German.
However, I had chosen German. I have
I never understood why, even now
I'm wondering why I finally chose German and
So, there you have it, very, very average.
I passed my baccalaureate with a 9.9
average.
They told you, "Okay, go ahead, we'll..."
There you go, take it anyway. 99 that's it
pass.
It was the 0.1 of German that
they might have been able to get you through.
But
Well, actually, I wasn't. Yeah.
It wasn't, I wonder how we
manages to get 0.1 in German. You see,
I think it might just be because
that you don't have the right to have zero or
Uh, no, but I think there was a
something I always remembered,
It's been a long time since I was born, yes Mom, I
come and I also remembered the phone
The phone is ringing. So one
That moment must have been set and then you
Just answer one thing.
Yeah, that's it, even next door, but there's
There's still some German in it, so we
Go give it 01. Not 0, not 0, you see?
But just 01. Uh, OK. Very hilarious.
Hilarious. And you, you have some, you have
Discovered music yourself? You
You did it, uh, on what? So, finally, then
With your father, you took lessons in
music, you did solfège, you did
So, yes, I did a little bit of it. Finally,
We already listened to a lot of Pink Floyd
in the house. So, we were listening and
Pink Floyd and the hit songs of the moment.
It wasn't just Pink Floyd, it was
Also the radio hits and all that.
So, I was listening to a lot of pop music too.
We were talking about Pink Floyd and then...
it was mostly
I had a boombox so I had
a small oak tree in my room and
I had made myself a little corner
disco.
Do you know what a ghetto blaster is?
Absolutely.
OK. It's every child's dream.
The 80s. You're finally, you can't
pass by the ghetto blaster but you
You'll see that when we explain this to you
that's when Sébastien will explain it to you
What it was, well, you'll say OK
I agree. It's very, very cool
ghetto blaster. So the ghetto blaster
So it was a cassette player, that
He also listened to the radio and there were the
speakers attached to the sides. On
could walk around with it. That works too
with batteries.
But it was like a big ghetto blaster,
You know, about that big.
Yeah, it was cool.
And it was cool. And when you were cool,
You were walking around, you made the gesture, you
You were just hanging out with the ghetto, huh?
Yeah, the skaters were able to use it.
A little bit too. Skater rapper, let's say.
A bit like Beisty Voice and all that.
So what? Why am I telling you this?
Oh no, but that's the beginning of my
solitary music, so to speak.
That was it. It was that mezzanine. I
I closed the shutters, I closed everything and at
On the side of the Gessau Blaster, I had some
spots, sort of like small towers with
three different spots that come to life
with the music in rhythm.
OK. And so I had made myself a mini
nightclub like that and I listened to the
cassettes that I had at the time which
were mainly, ultimately, to
at the time what was fashionable was
the compilations. That's what was selling on
What else? They were really compilations.
from lots of different artists. The hits
the most beautiful songs of the moment
It's all about love.
This is kind of our playlist today
Ultimately. It's pretty much the same thing.
Yeah, that's it. So. Yes, it's a bit like that.
Same thing. Exactly. Except that he
I should have gone and bought it at the store.
But, uh, so there you have it. And so I have
listened to a lot of music like that, all
alone with this GTO Blaster and my three
spots. And that's how I am
I really got into music. But
so still in a state
in mind how I could put it
? Even so, there's darkness, uh
It was still nighttime, though, there was
The spotlights, there were some, I went back
in the music, with a bit of a Miami vibe
Vice, something like that, you know.
It wasn't spring-like or
it wasn't prairie music or
of the castle.
Hm. It was already, it was a piece of music.
Not much of a nightclub, really.
Glam
glam. There is a number that is more
important than all the others when we
is an entrepreneur, when one manages a
company, it's the small number that
is in the bottom right corner of your invoice. THE
The problem is that behind this number,
There are countless others
numbers and what weighs on the days of
The delays, the numerous reminders, the
unpaid bills that are found
never in these emails, in short, the whole
administrative hassle, the kind that...
hates everyone. In 2026, billing
Electronic electronics become mandatory.
Forget the endless follow-ups, the
Lost PDFs, the paperwork that eats everything up
your time. And to be ready on the day
I propose one thing: choose
the electronic invoicing tool
The one that best suits you. And then,
no need to overcomplicate things because
that you have Contao, my partner,
which is 100% compliant and already
operational. compo, that's the pro account
the French that I use and that I
I've always recommended it. More than
600,000 entrepreneurs have adopted it. And
What is the advantage of Compto? It is
that you have a solution which is
complete. You have your professional account and
your compliant electronic invoicing
in the same place, without paying for a tool
additional and you make a
Invoice in one minute. And then, the
Follow-ups can be done with a single click. There
invoice transaction reconciliation is
automatic and currently with the code
2850, you have a €50 discount on your
Subscription without commitment. So if
You too want to concentrate
on the right figures and not on the
Paperace, go to Conto. It is
conto.com/facturation
q on to.com/facturation.
Okay, let's watch the episode.
And what you're saying is funny, uh, because
that I see, I see exactly, uh, so
I was, I was a little bit more
Younger than you, but I can see clearly at
the era.
What fascinates me about myself is...
between the ghetto blaster and finally that
I didn't have any, but I had some, you know, one
shitty ghetto blaster.
uh, but the music I was able to play
a little bit, you see, uh, and the
The process of telling you "OK, I'm going to play"
really in front of an audience and the next
step again to say I will
"You become Sébastien [ __ ] Tellier." You
see, finally the side a little bit really
own up to this thing. I find that this
rocker
In terms of ego, you see, or there's a
that moment, that's a moment when it clicks or
It's coming, it's very gradual.
Me, yeah, there comes a point where it
clicked because I wasn't already
I was still unwell, though I already had some
guitars in my room and everything because
that my father loved guitars, he
I also put away my guitars in my
bedroom. So there you have it, and I
it was yet another way to
I think that's manipulation.
Yeah. There, I'll put the guitar here for you.
You do what you want.
And uh, so there you have it. No, but yes, and so
So that's all I have to say.
I was telling you this before, it was around age 9, we're going to
to say and then around 13 years old, 12 years old turned
from Pink Floyd 87 88, there's my father then
obviously takes me to see Pink Floyd in
filmed, but it wasn't the real Pink anymore.
Floyd of the past, and no longer a bassist. Finally,
It was another kind of crazy thing, it was
Much not as good as before, but oh well.
And there, I see David Guilmour, the
Pink Floyd guitarist, uh, to do
long guitar solos, uh, sometimes 3 or 4
minutes. And when I looked at him
doing that, so I thought to myself, "Oh yeah,
I really like that, I like it
Wow, what else? That's really it.
that I want to do.
I want to show off in front of people by
making music, that's all. It is
It's really my thing, and so if it has been
a turning point and I remember when we were
I left after the concert by car, I
I still remember looking into the distance and
to tell me "Oh yeah, that's cool, I have
Found something cool there, it'll be fine
"To do." And so that's it, but it was
too young, it was ultimately super
innocent. I didn't realize the
In this whole case, it represented neither as
effort, neither as a lifestyle, nor anything else. I
I thought to myself, I just saw this guy doing
guitar under that impressed me
Absolutely, and I was thinking, "Oh, look,
I would really love to be at her
"What place?"
That's funny.
indeed the
the distance. So I think that some
kids who said that, you see in
going to the Parc des Princes or uh in
one, uh, at a concert or whatever.
You see, even seeing a Yeah. of
Sports, art, a whole world of possibilities, there is
There are quite a few. I find that the
The difficulty lies in the work to be done.
behind and able to continue, to
to arrive, to get there. At what stage did you break through?
How old are you?
So, I signed my first contract,
I must have been 22 years old, I think.
Um, I released a first track which
His name is Fantino.
And he just went out all by himself like that.
before the first album and everything. He must
released in '98.
Wait, I was born in '75.
That's 23 years. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes. There you go. Yes. So there you have it, I have
I signed, then I stayed, then I took this out.
thing, and so it was young and also
I was lucky because this
first Fantino piece I made
which was the first time I was going
in a real studio and for the first time
that I was recording my song in real life
in a studio was spotted by Sopia
Copola, who put it in his film Lost in
Translation. So from my first
piece, I had a piece like that which
has traveled the world thanks to this film
obviously. film anyway Los in
Translation what.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah. At the time
It was quite a thing, you know, anyway.
it has remained quite mythical in a
In a certain way, and so there you have it.
started like that, at breakneck speed
A fairly young wheel, actually, when I
I see, I look back and I was
But actually, I have... it's funny.
because it had been a long time since I
knew I wanted to do
Music, signing, making my records, what.
But and then, uh, but on the other hand, when
I signed, I wasn't ready at all.
I wasn't a professional at all.
I was, I was completely in the
moon where I started my entire career
Like, a bit of a skid, you know?
What does that mean? Well, that means
instead of taking things at
Seriously, to tell me "Oh dear, he
I should work on my voice, or else
Hey, I should think about...
structures of my songs so that
It works, that it works, that it passes
on the radio or I don't know, uh
take the music from one side
Professional, that is. I mean, me
I have, I have, I have, it's true, I have lived that the
artistic thing, but I'm not saying ah I
I am more of an artist than the others and
I don't care about anything. It's just that I have
The professional side wasn't considered at all. I have
I did concerts while completely drunk, I did
Sometimes I would resume at the end of the
concert, I was starting from the beginning or
I don't know, I could sometimes spend 3
weeks to make a single guitar
completely incoherent stuff where I
I lived only through my career, only through
impulse, by
Anxiety, stuff like that. SO
it was, it was still very
chaotic. That's right, I had
the chance to sign young but it's
also, at the same time, a bit of bad luck
because at such a young age one is not yet
Completely ready. Anyway, for me and
I had some friends who were ready by
for example, when I met Dave Punk
And all of them, they were already pros
when they were super young. We have
I mean the same age. And I crossed
Those guys from R are really good guys, finally.
They are just a little bit older
But they were professionals, you know. He thought
to the career. You
Say a little older. You had 22 or 23 of them.
They had 25 or 26 of them, what? We're not talking
of people who were 35 years old, you know. But
I had trouble getting into the
The pro's skin and understanding that it was
important, right? But I have that.
Understood, I finally understood it.
But still, very late.
But it's something in terms
image
uh, no background, I'm not talking about that anymore
of form as well as substance, but who could
that you could always send back.
That is to say, you have a very accurate side
artist who steals a little
always above all that versus the
Americans, or did you also work with them?
Americans, a little bit, huh.
Yeah, I like it. I am still
I am extremely impressed by their professionalism.
American. It was only a short time ago, so I...
makes a song called Street of
the Nine which is sung by Slater.
So she's a Hyper Pop singer.
She did Coachella there
She really broke everything.
Really
We've seen it everywhere and everything. Is she
did something quite masterful, I must
say. And so there you have it, and she for example,
It's Force that makes her hyperpop.
So when we listen to his concert or his
music, it's the impression that it
The box, absolutely. Well, she introduces herself
herself as the worst woman of
UNITED STATES. Which is nice. And
actually when I recorded it when I
I invited him to record with me there,
She sang, but she really sang.
like Don or whatever, it's this
Rick, he's showing something.
but he knows how to do lots of other things
side. And I loved that in the TV series
When I was young, it was good, there
had the actor who played his character in the series
but at some point, he had to dance or
I sang and it was perfect. And so it is
That's what I admire about Americans.
But in their professional side, sometimes they
are diehards. You see what
I mean ? It's just that I don't know anymore
in which one, well it's in the one I know
Not if you've seen Orelsan's film, the
First, the very first one, right?
Indu! Yeah, I didn't see that thing. I
See what it is. Music
Pretty cool. And so you see them at one
moment try to make a fit with
Stéphaarel, right? Or I don't remember anymore. And in
do,
He ended up doing something with Far
And, in fact, you see them, they arrive.
in Miami in some place and actually you have
He literally has finally, but we can't see him.
They can't film, and then he
They arrive, they say hello, they pass by
Seven minutes together, they play a sound,
bam, he takes off and then he goes to see a
another artist in the next room
What. You're there, you're in "wow" mode
Relax guys a little, you know. Yeah.
No, that's for sure. But because that's the way it is,
that's because if in Europe, in France, in
Spain, England, Italy,
We like that it's substantial, we like
although it's a kind of story,
We like it when it's intelligent.
Also. There are some things, though, that we
I especially like it here that the RIN
whereas for the RINs, it won't be a
obsession. That is to say, I think that
In the US, it's not the same at all.
vision of poetry. For example, I
thinks that in France, we are
naturally poetic. There's something
even if we're a bit tough, we
will have grown up in Sergie, by the way.
You
See, you manage to find beauty in
Sergie, what? That's what you told me.
No, but the thing is, there is
There's still one thing, though, well, the little ones
balconies, small tablecloths in restaurants,
the candles, the little wooden b's. Full
things in France are
Poetic, in other words.
Even the plants, the rose bushes, the full
stuff. And so there's this thing...
while traveling, I
I realized that there were many countries that
were not at all poetic, in particular
the US. So there are US poets, there are
There are still people who go there
interesting and bookstores I would say
practical but it's not in the
the music industry, that's not what
predominates what. That's not the spirit
Poetic, indeed. That's a different story.
Whereas we, I think, at least,
I'm extremely attached to that aspect
poetic and also for me, it's super
It is important that art is still at
service of a form of sincerity. It is
It's not just bloodshed that
I don't know, US stuff, I don't know.
a very prudish girl will pretend
to be a beach or something.
I don't know anything about things like that. It is
Sure, for me it's super
It's important to be sincere through my
music. It's a quality, well, it is
Essential, that is.
What is your sincerity, Sébastien?
? Well, to be honest, it's really about...
I must say, I was sad. That means
To think that I've gotten myself tangled up so many times
the brushes, which uh I would have liked to be
a tough guy, actually, I don't even have
successful. I have stuff like that. I
I would say that there is, in fact, if...
I had to summarize, I feel that
I was born with a bit of a broken heart, I have
took some time
to understand what happiness was
and to bring it all together. So it's a
I sing about all of that, and when I
sings stuff a little bit I dream of
Biarritz in the summer, it's really...
What.
I was indeed going on holiday to
Biarritz, but I was watching from afar
gangs where some arrived in
Vespa, everything was going well, there was
girls in the group and all
And there were just two or three of us guys at
try to drink a beer when you
I don't know what it could be.
That's it. Far, far away from the party
What the guy
You weren't going to what it was called
? It was at an outdoor party
on the tables, huh? Ah, the Blue Cargo
of course, at Blue Cargo.
I'm exosing the BL cargo. I have them
ready-made. Uh yeah, the Blue Cargo
It was nice, but it was me, I...
I remember at a friend's house I still have the
vision of my friend, which is on a
table on puts oil. I don't know if
You see this, but it's oil.
Yeah
but
That was Asia, then. There were
things like that that came out and that
It was a hit.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah. Yeah.
What memories did I have?
There's one I have in mind, but I
I'm not going to find her. No. This
What's funny is that in
However, what you're saying there between your
A broken heart at birth, you have to
Explain it to me because it's a child, it's
That really touches me, it's incredibly...
and what you managed to do
exactly in this song for those
who know a little about Biarritz in the summer
Finally
A yes. No, but I no, I'm talking I
talks about Biari's summer, not about the
song. And when you uh
In fact, everything's fine, you see?
What do I mean? It's, it's, uh, it's
Exactly that. It's actually...
Biarit, you managed to reproduce it with
uh, in a song. But no, it's
Excuse me, that's where the genius lies, isn't it?
But, but you listen to him, it's, it's there
to this gentleness, this thing that keeps coming back and
then at the same time everything you and I
I have everything you have from the big flags. He
there we see the girls lying on the
flank. Yeah, yeah, whatever. There is the
holiday rhythm
Not too fast and all that. There is some
Heat too. We felt a little bit of the
sun and everything. Yeah, right. No, but that
No, that's how it's done. So how does that work? But
It's true that I don't even know, but he
Well, I don't even know, it just comes to me
Quite naturally, actually.
I made music for a long time by
impulse and all that, so at one point I
I want to do that. It just comes out like that. If
The next day I listen again and I...
Say, that's great, well, there you go, that's great and
And that's it. But there's no reflection
Also, in this instance, it comes from
The song was produced by Guiman
Daf Punk
So he produced it well too, that is to say
I had the piano, so
the song I dream of well summer here
I had this and this is what I told him
I showed him there, I just played, I told him when
He came to the studio, I sang to him
piano and voice, what else is there to say, and it's him?
Who came up with the idea of ​​setting that rhythm?
on top of what was already incredibly clever
because ultimately it was everything
beginning
where they mixed pop with RnB
In a way. Before that
It didn't really do that. That's what RnB is.
It was R&B but with linen tops.
RnB, not sugary pop like Christophe's
with RnB rhythms. It was, we were
pioneer in this area, even if it's
super dude I don't know what thing but in
True, it was a pioneer and all, and that's it.
Many come from Guiman and also me
I am naturally very baroque in
music, I add it often
far too much, etc., and him, this
What was cool about him was that
He was taking everything away, he was keeping
that the ultimate thing and he added
elements of his that made
really highlighted serious
What I was proposing to him, basically.
Working with him, that's really him
a great production genius, but not for
to really mess around too, even at the US level where the
major English producers and all that
He's really a guy who can transform you
in piano voice in in a crazy thing you know. And
How do you explain that in a...
Dude, like that, you still have it.
It was quite busy, and then you saw some.
Others what?
It's their home, it's innate. It is
that's because they were immersed in it
very young. That's because they are very
They're passionate, they work more or less
Well, they have an ear for it, they have
the lucid ear. Let's say that when they
listen to a piece of music,
For a very long time I listened to
pieces and what was I listening to?
In fact, it wasn't even the piece.
It was emotion that was driving me. SO
I want something, I want to
Crying is, oh dear, well, I know
Not nostalgia, but feelings. Them,
They were listening to a piece of music, no, they
knew exactly. He thought to himself, "Well, he..."
must have adjusted it like that so that the
base go these are there. Or, wait a minute,
That's a tube, but what is the
structure ?
How many times does the reference come back? They
They really have a good ear, that's for sure. They
listen to music
in order to learn from it
What. There is a technical side to it.
in what you're ultimately saying. Yeah,
It's extremely technical. They are super
technically skilled. Seriously.
But it ends, uh, because let's say
uh, Discovery, their second album, which is for
From my point of view, a great
Masterpiece.
A great masterpiece.
So there are some really touching moments.
Um, the sad songs from Discovery,
They are, uh, really drunk. Well
Very Disco and all. Finally, they are
Crazy stuff. So no, they know
also touch. There's a very
Even an artistic depth in Dave
Punk, uh, definitely, but forced to
to note that these are very, very
They're top-notch technicians, that's what they are. They are
they know how to make music
and they learned from what they have
listen. Whereas I, in fact, have
I never really learned much from what
I was listening. I tell myself, for example, me
George Michael when I listen to his songs
I imagine her dancing, I imagine her
I sing, but I don't think about how.
he actually did
How did he set up the base?
That's it, but it's been 25 years since then.
years I have professional music so I have when
They even learned to listen too, but they...
They were like that from the start.
You saw them in concert
Daft Punk?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yes.
I missed it.
Ah good ? Ah yeah, yeah.
No, but seriously, I was a huge fan. I have
He said, but it's the first one they've done.
They will make another one.
Ah yeah. Then they never did.
others turned.
Oh yeah, no, it's... Oh yeah, it's too much
Shame. Oh, but it was great.
Well
Oh yeah,
I'm sure that's the thing
This might be the album running in
In any case, that's what I listen to. But
the album I've listened to the most in my
life.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
The live album, I mean the live performance.
Ah yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah
The live stream mixes everything up. I don't know if
You've already listened to it again, but I've never
Listened, no, I didn't, but anyway, I remember the
live. Yes, yes, indeed, a CrossFit
in general, a kind of giant mash
Absolutely fantastic. No, no, but
Yeah, absolutely. I have always
summer I have always been a huge fan of
Daft. To tell you the truth, I was even going to see
Daft Punk before they were called Daft Punk.
He played at rave parties which
They were called Swaganadou and all that, and I was there
What the hell.
But you were literally 18 years old.
what or 16
Ah, 16, 17 even. Yeah, yeah.
It was a bit underground back then. It was
Ah yeah, it's underground and all. Yeah
Then it's violent nights, you know.
The guys were freaking out but
What is it, really?
But you were clean.
I tried to stay clean, but I also
I've always been a little afraid of chemistry.
Oh yes
ecstasies, acids, and all that. SO,
I took some acid, you know, but
I've tried ecstasies, but this side
chemical me ah I don't know, it me
It was scary, it made me feel sick.
I found that really unhealthy. But anyway,
As I read, if you want plenty
of times that the Beatles to make Saint
Jean Papers had taken acid, that
Pink Floyd's guys had taken some
acids and then I don't know about guys
Magnets, I don't know, I took acids.
Oh, but I'm not going to stay like this
an idiot for not taking it and not knowing
What. I don't want to be the Nigo of
B.
OK,
So I took some acids to see what
that it did and it really messed me up
My head and I was like, "Oh [ __ ], [ __ ]!"
Maybe I messed up a bit after all
because it wasn't a maybe that
But no, no, it's really no.
No, no, that stuff is poison.
Tell it to everyone who would like
Yeah, I'm going to do great, I'm going to
taking acids, especially to think about that
Nothing at all for music, that's all.
Like the Americans, you have to microseize
Otherwise, what, but because the problem
That's it, yeah, but now it's more
Of interest, what? I'm going to start playing EA again.
I don't have access. Here, wait, I'll show it to you.
pass. And uh, the question is
about that
Thank you, that's so kind. Thank you so much.
The question is...
even the remark if you say
Sébastien Tellier, he is still
already tripped enough without acid so
What should the result be with that?
Because, I admit, I would like to
It's clear to see it. I would have liked to have
dashcam
No, but the last time I
taken unit, it was in Los Angeles. I
I must have been about 26 years old. And then if you
I want to, I say Rouselt hotel and to mom
So I'm taking an acid, but I have
the impression that it doesn't work and so I
He went back to the hotel by himself.
You take another
And no, I'm not starting again, thankfully. I
I went back to the hotel saying, "Well, here I am."
I'm going to bed, I was exhausted, jet lag
schedule, whatnot, and then finally the
the thing starts to rise and
I spent the night all alone in this
hotel room. The next morning, I
When I arrived, there was toilet paper everywhere.
That was the thing, it was hell, it was
infernal. And I said, "Oh no, not anymore."
Never, never again will I take acid.
It's really already, it's unwomanly and
then it leaves traces, in women, and you
Do whatever you want. That disgusts me.
It's just because I wanted them
The Beatles and all that, it was just too much. I
I was thinking there might be something there
Magic, that's what it is. I could only try
What.
It's quite funny, actually. Uh, I
find, well, these experiences that you
I want to do it, and since it's assumed, what about...
to tell you, in fact, and you have, and you have written
or composed nonetheless under the influence of
No
After that I'm joints I'm some
micro joints, basically. I season myself
quite often. Uh, I like that, but
That's also a way of doing music
It's unusual because you're facing
The sound was quite loud, finally 8-10 hours per
day and what's going on is that it can
can be quickly exhausting
even mentally. Finally, some music
strong, it's like in the movie of
Justine Trier there, Anatomy of a Fall,
there's this loud music that keeps coming back
all the time. Well, all the music
whatever they may be after 8 hours of
next, the same
You see, if you smoke a little bit, don't
Is it possible that you feel it even a little bit?
not,
everything is fine. There is no you are not
crushed by the music. Music
It continues to be velvety smooth. And so that
That's great. I think it's very
It's terrible to say, but it's true.
that grass and music are a marriage
Almost perfect, really. It's really in
Besides, it also helps to have a vision
I would say a little
sensual music too, because
music can be
What could there be? There are plenty.
of things that are good
The music, the chords are nice.
The melody is nice, and the lyrics are nice.
but it's not sensual and me when the
The music isn't sensual, it doesn't suit me.
And so, with the seal, if you want that, that
adds a touch of sensuality. Do you want to do
Sensual stuff, basically. No
No, it's true that it's because
that you say the marriage of the two is
interesting.
Yeah, right. After that, I don't recommend it to
People not to smoke or anything like that. I
I especially don't want to influence
kids or whatever. But, uh
Okay, we're going to have to admit that
That's true.
And uh, on that note, your process, you
You see, I've had some novelists.
Not bad at all, so you see...
Uh, Joël Dicker, you see, uh
I don't really see it, but well, quite a few
good novelists, they often had
process
They're pretty standardized, you know. That is to say
So, first of all, it was Covid, he was getting up
early in the morning, he worked
something like 10 pages a day. The one who told me
The most noticeable thing like that is, uh
Bernard Verbert, who had written the
Ants and all that. And
eh. Yeah. Yeah, I know that well.
And Bernard, he tells me roughly
In the morning, I write 10 pages, like 10 steps
One more, not one less, and then I
I do this 30 days a month, 300 pages, I
Write a novel in a month and then I'll...
rewrite 10 times and then we arrive at
In October, I finished my novel and then
Then I have months of vacation.
I'm exaggerating, but that's pretty much it, you
see. And so the guy is a... he's a...
machine.
Exent and it's still quite ISO in
in terms of, well, you see, in terms of
As a result, he's still just a guy who
is very strong and very musical
In people like that, there are guys
like Jules or some very... people
organized groups that release an album every
6 months. What's yours?
You have a method, it just fell from the sky.
You have to take some from inside. You have
said it wasn't working.
No, no. Well, I do...
music almost every day then
almost every day. Not on weekends
now that I have children but
otherwise I finally when I'm not in
filmed every day of the week I
I'm going to the studio.
And the studio, isn't that at your place?
Uh, no, it's not my place anymore.
That's been quite a while. 5 6
It's been years since it was my home. A little more
even. I did a lot of work at home.
I loved it, it was also super
Casagier and all that, but then I had some
longing for elsewhere. So I have a little
studio rue des martyrs. finally
who is not so small, but and
It's a professional studio and everything, we can
really make records in it and
All. This is your studio. There is only
You're the one posing in it. That's what the
mine. And so, uh, I'm having a blast.
And it's true that I'm good, it's not
I like to work, so I work
8-10 hours a day I would say, and at lunchtime I
eats quickly.
A small one, well, it's not a...
bowl. Finally, at the same time I know about luck and
Bad luck. It's because right next to you
has a place that sells small hot dogs
absolutely delicious, it's a
That's crazy. And so if you want, but
it's really the door next to mine
study.
So I go out, I get a little hot
dog and then, there you go, I eat it. But they
They are so good from the butcher. It's in
30 seconds, that's all sorted. I
continues to work. After that, I have there
Something did happen, though.
There are two rather interesting things that
have passed into my creativity if that
have you been interested in lately?
in with the fact of having a studio that
is what is far from home, that is
already my greatest source
This journey is precisely what inspired me.
h
uh, from my place to the studio. Because if
You want to, well, before, you get up.
Thingy, my studio is here, turn it on
The computer, you have a coffee, well that's
party. There are those 25 minutes that...
separate from the top of my marten to the bottom of
Martyrs' Street. And there, in fact,
It's quite wonderful because I
said for 25 minutes, well, there you go, but
what am I going to do in
This studio? So, if it's a song
which has already started, well there you go, I
Say, maybe I'll add one
bass, hey, what if I did a bit of the
verse, stuff like that, or if I have
Nothing at all, I thought, well, I
I'm going to make a new song. I
Tell me, what could I talk about?
Do I want to do something
I mean, grown-up and talkative? Is it that
I want to do something intimate?
Does it matter and ultimately in
It's done, and she's been there all my time.
creativity today. This is the path
in my marten, the cruel little ones,
The little things, well, they're right there. And
and now I'm getting to the
studio and I just do what I have
I thought about it on the way there, you know.
You've already started, you already have in mind a
beginning of something or
That ? I like that. That has a lot
exchange. That's why my last
album that the Beast finally not even that
for self-promotion but and my best
album for a long time.
I listened, I loved it, I was
still working on it this morning. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
There is this path, there is this path that
allows me to think about what I will
TO DO. So I don't know, it's changed
something, a big thing, in my way and of
to do and I don't know, it made me, it made me
on the right path of pure art or
of something that aims
really full of character and all.
So that, and then I used another one
something else that really changed my
The way I make music is my own.
I'm passionate about this, okay, for me
Agreements are central to my life.
So we all agree on all the agreements
Complexes, the 7th, the 9th, all that. And
Then, I decided to compose
precisely without the agreements, that is to say
with my right hand on the keyboard, I play
the melody I imagine and by hand
Left, I don't agree. I did
that of the basis of the agreement if you a
only note. And so that frees me.
completely the spirit of what was a
enormous weight, finally, before, it's
What chord do I make with this melody?
And since I was in love with chords,
I tried to find some very beautiful ones
agreements, precisely. So it took me
plenty of time because I was there with
my melody. I should still, though.
that behind it there is a pretty big agreement
What. I'm talking about a pretty damn good deal, Gchwin.
I don't know, something really interesting
thingamajig. And then finally, this, I have
stopped doing it. I freed myself from
the agreement to remain a low melody.
And that also allowed me to compose,
to open completely
my creativity, what about because and after
Once I found that, I
breathes new life into the song
because there have to be some, don't you
If only to add the violins,
the sheets of sanity and everything, but the
If you want, I removed it.
most important thing I've been doing since
The beginning, you know. And so it has
offered like that, a sort of second life
artistic, that is.
What you're saying about it is pretty crazy.
your path.
Ultimately, it's related to what you
I was telling you about Biarritz, and that is to say that
You inevitably recount what you experienced
somewhere. Uh
is it that
Are you all connected to this?
That's to say,
Is it the rapper, even if it's not
your universe, but who ultimately tells the story
the city, the difficulties of life, the
deal, violence, I don't know what,
In fact, once he succeeds, once he has
full of money and he drives a
Ferrari, he can always do something
Interesting, you see.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah. No
But the thing is, it's certain
that it's possible, but it's also certain
that it is necessary
How did I get it? Because this thing needs to
still a form of anger towards the
to go out. Uh, but even when you don't
urban music and all that, even if you
I want to release a great composition. And that's
It's true that when you're between 20 and 30 years old
Even between us, your life isn't over yet.
the one you dream of having, so there you are
He's angry, that's all. A sort of thing and
Then you have, you see, you have
What do you want? Not everyone has
I wanted to, but I really wanted to. Then
usually when you become a singer,
It's still a rapper, that's what
You really want to, don't you?
And, uh, so there you go, and that's true.
As for comfort, well, that's what
it happened to me purely, uh, me at the same time
the arrival of the children and the comfort and
everything, that mansion, bah
It's certain that there, the music...
dissolved a little. So what I have
made to remain very artistic when
I even made some ultra albums
concept. So, My God is Blue, an album
Jeff Kons talking about spirituality.
So there you have it. After that, I reinvented myself.
a childhood in Brazil with adventure.
After that, I made Domestic 18, an album
on household chores. Like that, if
You want to, I've dusted it off a bit
under the rug. I say, "Come on, let's have one
a small conceptual career like that,
I still spent quite a bit of time on
"The house and everything." And indeed,
It was a bit like I was both,
I had both comfort and
I was a little tired of my success.
sexuality because I did a very
long tour of more than 2 years.
It had exhausted me. So all that plus the
children plus comfort and everything.
Indeed, there was a moment when you did it, but
now that the children have grown up
For example, on that occasion I
No, no, I'm starting from scratch. There, I
just released three albums
means. Um, what's "medium"? Well, that's
Success, or is it you who is self-esteem?
that it's not even me personally. No
No,
It's just that if you want it, it's not
completely finished, you see, there's too much
few good bass lines,
there are, there are melodies that are not
quite finely chiseled, and then lots of others
Things like that. I have a lot of problems
In fact, but there are too many big problems.
So that I can be proud of it, you know.
Really good stuff.
I'm not proud of it, that's all. And so if you
I want to, but it turns out that
That's how it happened. But I'm on the
At the time, I wasn't thinking that. I was
I did my best, but with the
Time is passing now, I say well
Yeah, I totally let myself go
captivated, uh, by this thing at the same time as
comfort, being a dad, living in a
Nice neighborhood and all your complexion.
But then again, uh
knowing that behind all this one day I
I'll come back like that. And so, there I have
Well done. I have, in fact, I have
I rented a studio apartment and lost 20 kg. I have
It's really silly, but also...
There you go, I've changed my technique of
composition, so I removed the chords. I
I really looked at myself, looked into the
ice, I really thought to myself there, you
truly begin your real career.
It starts now. They are
genuinely cool works that are at
Ultimately, the level of your heroes is
NOW. It's now or never
anyway. finally, at 50 years old then
Anyway, I'm telling you this, it was when
you still did it eventually
It's always you, I think we are
You must be the only one who can
to judge your work on that basis, that is to say
When you say "means," that's why...
I'm asking you the question, but...
to others who commercial success
He doesn't care if you think it's
awesome
Yeah, you see, I'm taking things back.
that we both know the Daf egg
Punk, uh, what could I see?
below maybe the thing about the throne
I like listening to it. No, it's...
Pretty good, actually. That's still great.
Yes, but then it's music of
film, so it's true that it might be
It's a little less good than Discovery
But that's normal, it's not meant for that
to be better, that is.
But I think that's the Yes. And then their
they may have this chance of having
a piece of music that is less you can the
maybe then, and maybe I
You're going to tell me that's completely wrong, but
a piece of music that you might
compose in comfort.
Yeah, yeah, it's yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely, absolutely. You see, uh, you...
go work with you, you work with David Gua
I think, or I don't know how it works, or
He's the one who takes you back. Well, finally
Uh, what David Geta does, you... you're not
obliged to be you can have so I say
It's not that it's easy, mind you, it's
Listen up, I'm saying
that ultimately you know if you are in
A yacht, uh, how does it work? You can
To compose it, you see.
Yes, because they are also, of course
artists, but they are...
artists producers
Or
which are almost a little more even
producers rather than artists, ultimately. SO
It's true that these two go well together. I
I mean Quincy Jones when he
I know the product, but he had
he had already succeeded before, so he was already
in a nice house in Beverly
And everything else. You are more
a million a month watching my
videos. 90% of you are not
subscribers. So I'm going to ask you a
thing because after 8 years of generation
Tursell, this project is the project of
my life. Every week with my
team, we're working hard to find the
best guests, to inspire you and
to learn as much as possible
possible. For what ? Because my
My deep conviction is that it is necessary
use your available brain time
on smarter content. It is
It is important to me that this content is
Available free of charge. So, what
I'm going to ask you, it's simple,
Subscribe. For you, it's just a
click. For us, it changes everything
All. The more subscribers we have here, the better
will be the content, the guests, the
productions and therefore the value that we
will bring you. It's now. Must.
It's not easy from the outside, even if
I then watched a series
exceptional, called The Defiant
Ones. I'm going to tell you, but you really have to
to look at her. It's with Doctor Dray and
This other one, you want to tell me, Clem, if you
Find him, this other producer
American
It's legendary, spanning an entire era.
eh. Jimmy Lovin. Oh yeah
A must-see and a Defi ones
and so
Ah yes, yes, I see, but I didn't see it.
For
and truly exceptional, but I find
It's so difficult from the outside.
to still understand because in
The more I think that she is not, she is
The difference is never exactly the same.
between a musician and what you
call a producer a composer a
producer. Finally, when you say they are
producers, and good producers at that.
For me, it's quite vague. Let's say that
What differentiates them most of all is
that, for example, a producer, a real
producer, I'm a guy who feels
producer and who does it well hates
I'm composing because I don't know, there is
One thing, it's not the same at all
exercise. Uh, that's the composition, you
You start, it's not good, you come back in
back, this thing, you try it, it's
It's very empirical, and then you open up.
Totally you. The lyrics, the composition,
it's a very intimate and very
personal. So you have to be like that too.
the creation
first, I have the raw material of the
music. So for me it's the
compo. And here you have to be someone who
very aptly, very dreamy, of
completely a puppet of his emotions
and everything. Whereas a producer is
Something else is stability, that's
the analysis.
So it's still the same. But there are some
guys who know very well how to do the
two. I mean, I imagine that Farel,
Well, he's a good composer.
And then, uh, good producer. I want
To be honest, there are Daft Punk too,
They know how to do both well.
But anyway, that's it, it's still very
rare and I find that David Gua and the
Daft Punk, as I experience it, is that
I can see them a little more, though.
producer, if you want something purely artistic
What. It is
It's quite interesting when I compare
that profession. So in many
of universes, in television, in cinema, the
producer is also a bit like the
financial. That's not the case at all in
Music. He doesn't pay the
Oh no, no, no, even the producer is
paid. Well, there you have it, he's paid to do
his work. That's the producer who
Actually, there are two music producers.
There's the producer who's with you in
studio if you choose to have one. Me
I did loads and loads of stuff on
producer but
So, he's with you now, you tell him
Well, I feel like doing that
song. He'll say, "Ah, well, that would work."
Well, that song, that's that piano.
I know a guy who plays really well
the mud. Things like this would be good
That's it. We're going to ask this guy to
to make violins. There, you put a
too much of a chorus, whatnot. And then you have
the other producer which is the house
disc and who is there who is to put
also the money, precisely, and paying for everything
That, paying for the studio, all the guys who
They're working on it because there is
a huge number of professions, ultimately
in music. We don't realize it.
But, uh, I mean, it's true that a
a bassist, it's not the same at all
something that a singer, who is not from
exactly the same as a producer, who
not at all the same vibe as
to be a studio boss, which is not the
same trip as a guy who makes
album covers. Finally, there is a whole
a bunch of guys to pay when you do a
record label and record company do that.
Perhaps that's a bit of the confusion that
I can have it because, in fact, you
I know, in many professions, the
Producer, you don't want to. For example
the porous boundary between the director and the
producer from time to time, we say the
Real, he's doing the artistic part, he doesn't want to
that you touch your film and from time to time in
Time, you have the producer, you saw them
those moments when he arrives and says, uh
And hey, you know, that scene already...
will cost too much and besides I
think she won't like it so you
You kind of get these little conflicts, you know.
It's not really the
Yeah. No, but today I would say
I don't remember anymore, maybe it was the 70s showbiz show
there was something like that but
now the people of house 10
Very few people come to the studio to listen
They're recording it, they come or it is
Above all, I think that's what I
See what I do, see what I see
Around me, it's that when you have that...
Have you recorded any good ones?
songs in the studio, you go home
record them, or else you
Have a special listening day where there
You buy yourself some champagne, you have it.
small sofa trays
And then you tell the boss of house 10
to come and you receive it well and you do
listen to your stuff. But the people of the
House 10 are not sitting in the studio
On one thing, you watch yourself work all
During the day, that's not really done anymore.
That. But on the other hand, the producer, the one
who is in the studio, the producer
executive, one can say of a certain
Anyway, he's here with you.
every day, even though he's supposed to
in a way, work a little
more than you. Once you've done
your field shots, which you proposed
your song, which you sang over it, the
guitars and all that, he's supposed to
stay for three more hours to
refine. And here you have a producer
on KissBist.
Kiss Beast, I've worked with lots of
producers. I have everything at once
co-produced, uh, as an artist in the
studio and uh and so I have if you want and
I partnered with a lot of
producers. So there's some Victor
Leman, the one who had been in charge of, uh, the
Jo, Paralympic
and Jo.
And, uh, there's Oscar.
Holter, of course, who is the producer of
The Weekend, by Cathy Perry, and all that.
So it's great that they've also partnered with us.
to the French producer. Sebastian.
Ah.
Uh, electronic music producer. I have a lot
worked with Daniel Striker,
the Australian
who was the producer of Min Gornut
and so forth. So I have a great team of
producers, what else? I don't know.
Sébastien, you're bringing up a name again. I have
I thought so much about what he was doing when
That was 15 or 20 years ago.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. He had made a
first album with lots of songs
of one minute, 1 minute 30.
Yeah, yeah. I absolutely loved it. But
He also produces Juliette Armané, he
product he will produce Charlotte
Ginsbourg, he produces a lot of people. I
I think he produces K-pop stuff.
Things like that, you know.
And crazy. You have, you have, you have a
song about a sheep that goes a
slaughterhouse. No, it's...
I have a song called Sheep.
This is the first one I composed for
the album, precisely. And I liked that
the sheep theme because uh
I would say that the sheep, it is at the
Sometimes endearing because there's the little
cartoon sheep, it has wool
but at the same time it's a little repulsive.
I don't really want to do a
hug, a sheep, a real sheep, I
I don't know.
You don't have too much trouble eating a kebab
Not even that.
So.
I just wanted to touch a sheep.
Yeah. So there is this aspect that
I already loved it; it was both attractive and cute.
but at the same time repugnant, you see.
I like the animal, and then, uh, I
I saw a bit of that, I drew a parallel...
little about how I felt at the time and
the distress, all that, and the "and if you want"
It's true that when I was looking to
to describe, in fact, a form of distress
in the eyes and I thought, well
Hey, the sheep, that's the right animal.
because we imagine the sheep
easily go to the slaughterhouse and in
this kind of truck that takes him to
the slaughterhouse, this distress in the eye
What. And that's what I was just trying to do
a song that is just that, that is
His distress, but afterwards I had fun.
I wasn't going to say distress, distress
distress throughout. So, I
I imagined a sort of mix between my
distress to me, that of the sheep, the
distress that can exist in man
which is in common with the animal. It is
There is still something we have in common, though.
It's still the fear of dying.
Finally, animals also have
fear of dying.
As long as they can, he tries to escape
to death. Finally, I mean, as much
that they can. So, and I'm good
Well, that's nice, it's going to be something
a fusion between me and a sheep. a
Very dark song, huh? Very, very dark.
long. That's what I had to
saying now, it's a very song
adventurous. I really like the
songs that are more like strawberries
than like songs. And I like it
feel that from the very beginning of the song
Let's go on an adventure, basically. That's
something that
I love and love this song and these
songs, but as you say, some
strawberries and long. Long songs
who take you there.
Me, I
my kids who tell me from time to time
time, "Oh no, damn it, not that one."
You know, like, I don't remember anymore, you take
at The Doors' Bonista Social Club,
That's me in all those albums and stuff.
There, it's always, it's always LCD
Sound System of course, and it's always
the longest one that I like. And
I have. And indeed, what is her name?
in LCD System? This is Dan Self Clean.
Yeah. Oh yeah, very, very long.
Yeah, it's 7 minutes but actually
It's a journey, and you know, it all starts there.
slowly and then it starts off in
peanut.
That's nice. So. I like it too
That's good. I like that. It's amazing.
It's cool when the music makes
to travel. It's really ideal.
Listen, funny. I, I, I, so, I, since
earlier, as you told me, I
ask within your 25-minute walk
In my marten, how do you kill the sheep?
Actually, uh, it's more maybe the
The melody you were talking about, the lyrics, I
I don't know. But
No, but no, but in Montmar
Actually, we can hear, I don't know which one.
neighbors, but we hear a rooster that
sings, for example.
Um, there's a small alley that I
Take it, that's where the rock of
the witch, there are chickens, there is
rabbits. So that influenced me to
to do who theist
Every day, I would cross paths with a little
It's still an animal, though. So I imagine that's what happened to me.
influenced like that, you know.
What's funny is that
You evoke very... feelings
It's tough what you're going through. Finally, then everything to
the hour, the sorrow, the distress,
a lot of things, very, uh, you say I
I was born with it, you told me how you did it.
with a broken heart.
Heartbroken.
Yeah, right. No, that's it. I really
Actually, it's very strange, but
That's when I met my wife.
Amandine, who told me, "But you know
Are you unhappy there? You're a guy
"You poor thing." Oh really? But
What are you saying? Really
frankly the first time she told me
He finally said it; at the beginning it was creeping in.
but the first time we spoke
Specifically, what do I mean, and she
She told me that, but so at the beginning
I couldn't believe it. You
was already known and finally I mean
Well, it was, I met him.
Amandine after taking out the Rournal
So I had already released two albums
What.
So I was already a little bit at the
What's the flow? I don't know, well, what
no you weren't in a moment you
could have, one might say, by
For example, excuse the cliché, but heartbreak because
Before I was famous, I struggled.
I can't do it, no, you were, you were
really heartbroken while you were
Up there, you know. Yeah, there you go, there you go.
Finally, up there. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, up there
At least for me. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so, well no, but because I have
Frankly, I never really found
the reason. I know that I knew the
to solve because, precisely, I have
I met Amandine, who taught me to
to be happy and then I did lots of
things that pass for things
Luberlu, but I did quite a bit
hypnosis, things like that. That's what I thought.
It really, I don't know, calmed me down. Actually,
It took me a long time, but finally I have one.
the beginning of a clue that I had
a body. And if you want, I put
I spent a long time telling myself that it was necessary that
to take care of me. And that, that has
It really was one of the keys to my happiness
Ultimately, it's that I've always
It's finally been, it may seem completely
stupid, but I've always been one
intellectual, but even if it's not obvious
and that I speak like an idiot, but
I've always been cerebral, if you will.
I've always hated sports. Uh, I have
I never knew how to dance. I, uh, you see,
I was, and what's more, I was always
a little bit in the world, in the imagination
And everything, and I don't know, I'm...
always felt but as I am
finally today, except
that I accept it today. Always one
a little bit, though, apart or a little
weirdo, you see. And so
That's it, I think, that's the position
there, in relation to others who who who
There. But then I learned how to do it
a form of quality, ultimately, and
especially that it doesn't make me any more
to suffer at all. But I was
unhappy for a very, very long time
not knowing which ball to use because
that, for example, in my family there is
there was no culture at all
to go see a shrink or to
taking care of one's mental health or doing
yoga or I don't know, we uh the
Ketchup flowed freely at the table.
We didn't give a damn about health.
So, nothing at all then. And so there you have it.
I grew up in this
Boil the Panzani ravioli boxes and
Then
Yeah, totally, you hid on
Frozen everything.
Yeah, the magic of the 80s and 90s
But you know, we're coming out of, we were at, one
that event with Fabien Barz and we
we were talking about, we were talking a little about this
Yeah. from the 90s and no, but there
has some interesting things that I would like
You're going to expose yourself, you're going to tell me what you think.
think, but actually we had when
even at that moment and we were talking about health
mental and uh where actually in the
90s, you couldn't say especially
when you finally become the goalkeeper for the team
France, uh, world champions, I mean,
I'm in a mess, in my head.
Ah yeah. Oh really, he experienced that himself?
Right after, he says after the after
I didn't burn anything. Oh yeah
No. And he must have told Roger the mayor
just before Euro 2000 which they won
also and he had to tell him "Dude but
"I need six months otherwise."
Ah yeah. Oh yeah, that's crazy. Yes.
No, but that just goes to show it's not at all
correlated to success or anything else.
That's something else entirely. It is
So it could be, I think.
That is to say, it is one of the questions
that I have, you see earlier in
Listening to you, it sounds like you're talking about the
refrain, uh, we were talking about some
songs. I was wondering which
point uh
This morning, I heard, uh, the one
story about the the the how he
What's his name? writer of Arse Lupin and who
he actually said he was completely linked
to this character and
You know he couldn't get rid of it.
undo and that he almost died in
Maurice Leblanc, that's it, died in
his house in Normandy, being obsessed
said to his gardener, "I think Arsen..."
Lupin is going to come and rob me.
obviously Arsen Lupin was his
character, you see
Ah yeah, yeah, yeah
And that's what led me to this question.
with Fabien Bartz I mean
but how much of a burden is that too
the world champion title, you see
And I could ask you this
question how much you see in your
You were talking to me about that work earlier
Three average albums, I'm not
I completely agree, and how much so.
some successes at home have been
cannonballs?
Well, it was actually the success in
He himself isn't the burden, it's me.
It's mostly fatigue, actually.
I was tired of filming, you know. I was
Tired of doing interviews. I was
tired of trying to dress well
at the time. In addition, I was egalitarian for
American Apparel. So, it was necessary when
Well, whatever happens, you know.
in terms of style and everything.
And yet I dress in just about anything.
Me, but anyway, I had
the feeling of doing well and then uh
No, it tired me out. Also, I am
That's still a very, very big deal. Um, I like it.
I like staying home.
I'll take my time. Um, if how to say to
I really like success, but
I'm not, how can I say, I'm not a
guy who lives life at 100 miles an hour or I know
Not what. And it's true that, for example, I
I'm having long days in the studio
But that's because I love it, I adore it.
It's not something like, oh my god, it
We need to finish this. I put, I never give
Regarding the deadline, I never say anything, I'm holding on to the
I'm going to finish my house so much
The album will be finished. We don't know, he
will be finished when. So I really like it
I'll take my time. I like success and
I'll take my time. So I'm trying to
navigating between these two things, you know.
So you never felt crushed by...
to say, uh
In such a concert, I am obliged to
I'd do it, but it annoys me. No, no, the
rural by I have always played with
pleasure. No, but to do a concert
That's fantastic. That is, and besides
that there is a huge injustice in
a concert, that's what it really is
the artist who should pay people
to come because it's wonderful
for a singer to do a concert and
Because, well, there are the beautiful ones
Lights, uh, uh, everyone's here
for you, but the audience is there for you
but the whole team on stage and
The team behind the scenes is there for you. On
The more we do that. We're going to do a
new concept. You're going to pay us all
And we're going to come to your concert. I
I'll be there in the front row. If I am better
I paid, and I'm in the front row too.
No, but that's it, because in reality, who
He's really enjoying himself, he's the one who
sung
and I go left, I go right and
I'm saying hi and here, I'll play you my
song. It's wonderful nonetheless
being able to share
how we see the world. That's why
because, for example, I have
It's often been said that I wouldn't have been able to stand it.
of being unknown, but people say
"Oh my god, what an [ __ ]!" But
Actually, no, that's not it at all, it's
For me, it seems impossible not to
to express myself. This is for me, it is
unthinkable not to be able to scream at
world even if I do it while singing
But what I think is there is a
something inside me that remains bubbling
Since then, you must have already done it.
That's definitely what I'm saying
There you go, there you go, if that's how you are, everything
Alone in a basement? No way, not really.
I'm lucky, I do this, there are
people who come to see me I can
sing my songs.
Does it help you?
Pardon ?
Does that make you happy?
Oh yeah, that makes me especially
happy. Do I even know?
when I make a record, then I love
I also love everything, I love everything
beginning of the records and I like the whole thing
I love composing and thinking to myself, "Yeah, that
"It's going to be like this, it's going to be like this."
Then you really have to get down to brass tacks.
There are some slightly more difficult moments.
And all because you realize
also your limits and stuff, finally
and then sometimes the limits of others
Also and everything. Well, it's a bit like that, isn't it? And
Then there's the mix. Me
I'm full of doubt in the mix because
that you can put it a little more
strong, but we can put a little less
Also strong. Well, that's how it is.
So. Then you have something that is
terrible, it's the mastering, it's
the finalization of the disc. That's it.
where ultimately we ensure that
all the mixes between them are roughly
at the same level and somewhat with a
The equalization is somewhat similar, that's...
make a nice album overall,
What.
So there you have it. And I hate that because
that you're paranoid because you
Say, "But wait, my life is a little
More high-pitched sounds, but on the other hand, it's better.
with this piece." Finally, it's a
thing is, it's absolutely terrible like and
After that, it's the reward, it's the
tour. So here, all the
repeat. So you're among musicians,
That's fantastic, can you imagine...
versions, you thingamajig, you have fun, you
make music without pressure with
other guys. I, who am in a career
Being alone, well, that does me a lot of good
to be with other guys in the studio at
to make music. And then,
Absolutely, you head out on the road and the
On the road, there's the stage and it's super
It was incredibly intense to perform the scene.
It's fantastic. You are
completely elsewhere. When it's you
who's on stage and you're doing the thing
For people, we're still in a
another world. And then there are all the at
sides. I love the tour bus, I love it!
sleeping on the bus. Every morning, you
Wake up, you're in a city
different. Sometimes you don't even know where
You are. Uh, and then you don't have anything.
Something to think about. I mean Seb, by the way, the
Breakfast is served from 10am, do you
I want someone to bring you a plate of this
Evening before or after the concert?
The guys I work with are super
Nice. So it's a great one
to go on tour, basically.
Hm. It's true that I heard you.
You heard on a podcast that
You had lived in a hotel for a few days.
maybe almost a year and you
I loved being
completely without obligation. Uh
Oh my goodness, that was wonderful.
Whose house was it? It's at Anam's place
Tomasov. Ah yes, yes.
Ah yes, maybe, but I loved it. No
but living in a hotel was therefore we
summer living with my wife and my two
children. We went to live at the Hotel Amour.
I dream about it, I dream about that. No, but there you have it.
Hotel Amour or whatever. You know that
What's that hotel in Los Angeles where you
I had some stars too who were at the hotel, he
There's also the B hotel which is room-only, the
Roosevelt hotel which ends in the
the Hton. The Hilton, that'll come back to me.
Uh
Ah, yes, the Castle Marmon.
Castle Marmon. So. Pass it on
a year at Castle Marmon.
Yeah, it's not bad. But it's more
as before the Marmon castle. Oh, he
You really have to persevere to get there, you know. There's
has double glazing and in the double
On the glass, there are dead flies and
All. What's more? OK.
Finally, in any case, it's true that
then told me that I had made a record which
It was called domesticated, bam, I buy it
An apartment requires a lot of work.
It lasts, I don't know how long.
So we have no choice. We sold the
the old shack, we bought this apartment
who is not ready. We have to make a living.
somewhere. Bam, the love hotel and there
It was nice. Ah, still...
How old were the children?
Ah, they were so tiny. Finally, everything
little. No, my son was 10 years old and my
The girl was 7 years old, what.
Damn, but the best life for the
children.
Oh, that was so great. They loved it
but most importantly, I want some from Dad
fries. Hello, fries, bam, some
fries. Finally, nothing to prepare. None
towel to say for
children who will have difficulty
To reconnect one day, that's all. People,
No, but it was expensive. And also the
beauty of this because in front of the hotel
Love, I've often said it, but it has
really marked. There's this large neon light,
there is love marked lengthwise like that
in pink neon and it was nice in the evening of
Back home to see that pink neon love.
So I knew that up there was my
wife and my children. Bang and then
It was great for small trays
meals because we to
A short Netflix series, it was great!
What.
You never cook, you never
The housework isn't where you wrote it.
domesticity, what else is it? It's not
No, no, no, it came later.
After. Forget it, you've been through something.
drama. I understand the dramas of your
life. I think I could if that
If the same thing had happened to me as to you, I could...
living the same way in my opinion
Oh yeah, yeah, but then it's horrible
to return to something domestic. You are
Wait, but actually I need to...
Put my stuff away, you know. You are here
Why don't we all live in hotels?
?
Yeah, we should all, that's a world
made up of artists and hoteliers
That would be perfect.
I have chosen my side. I, I won't go
the cow.
No, it's nice. Such a nice hotel.
It's a way of expressing yourself too, you
the decor, the whole way of entertaining
END. You know everyone in
revenge in the hotel.
You know all the cleaning ladies,
all people, all the Yes,
completely. Completely. But also
uh, the thing is, the hotel
Love is special for me because
that it's also the baron's whole gang.
I was a lot when I was
young man in a club called the
Baron
And that was truly my generation.
our iconic box, it was really
the baron. And in fact, this band in
In a way, I didn't know all of it.
world something or other, but still quite a lot of
guys, and including André, for example, from Lionel
and André, who had mounted the baron and
who built this hotel
uh, the Hotel Amour, so with people there
There are lots of people who go out to the Baron
who come to have lunch at the Hotel Amour or
others. Finally, that's pretty much it.
this culture, this movement which
which is now somewhat gathering
at the Hotel Love. Clearly
In your earlier conversation, I asked you
if you had one if there was one
character Sébastien Tellier
and uh, well, I mean the man
public, the artist and a Sébastien
Tellier, uh, in his pajamas at home for
children who are not at all
even.
But it's not the same at all. But my
children always tell me, especially my
girl, I don't know why she told me
But you're too stupid, Dad, if people
They could see how it was, you wouldn't believe it
that Sébastien Tellier is like that
because at home I would say I
he barely bumps his elbow and when I say I
I roll on the ground, I do a whole
cinema and even children are there when
even
I am at home.
I am truly pathetic, but
lamentable, finally I flee all my
Responsibilities? No, what I love is
play videos and video games with the
Kids, I love that. It's a heavy
responsibility. Yes,
I also love buying them snacks.
I love buying them toys. Uh, we
goes on big outings. SO,
Everyone can think what they want about it.
think. I mean, but we make some
big outings on the Champs-Élysées.
So, we set aside a day and we say we
Let's go to all the shops, let's...
spent an entire Saturday shopping.
kind of sicko.
Clem, who says what a hell! But actually
Yes, but I'm going to... children.
Saying that makes them so happy that
It's actually quite funny. That's because
That's you, projecting yourself back into the future for us.
Can you see? I understand that you
Say that, hell, but actually
Imagine yourself a few years ago, 10, 11, or 12 years ago.
on the fields all the signs that
You see Nike on PSG?
all the brands there and Lacoste
thingamajig
yeah funny
There are also minis for my daughter
now there's a JD sports store for the
sneakers, there's Swatch, well, I know...
things that kids love
So why am I telling you this?
No. Yeah, if all this isn't for
to say that uh
but when you're with them on the
fields, you're with your cap, your
Glasses and there you are, a Sébastien
A TV that I wouldn't even recognize.
No, I don't have the glasses, I don't have anything.
All. No, no, no.
So I walk past you, I
I will recognize.
Oh, not at all. I feel really awful
dressed up. I... No, you have hair
attached and everything.
Yeah.
Ah yeah.
You're not necessarily attached, but yeah.
No, I'm not saying this at all.
to come here a hairdresser who comes with
the cap. Me, we're doing this morning,
I gave my beard a blow-dry. Uh, I
I had seen him, I had seen him
last time. Yeah, I had it
REMARK. I was burnt out. I'm not from
That's quite a guy. But at home,
It's not the same. But also because,
I have something, I already have a huge
rejected by I have a rejection of authority in
In general, but I don't like this thing. When
I grew up, yet it was still
very fashionable. The father, it was supposed
My father wasn't like that at all.
but the fathers, a little imposing, a little
like what was the idea that we
made real men back then and
I didn't feel any of it. He was making me
I was a little scared, I wasn't comfortable. And I
I was already thinking that at the time, so I know
Not if he really told me, but uh
that I'll never be a guy like that
What.
But at the same time, earlier you said
I haven't even managed to be a real man
gender. So in a way, it's funny.
because it's a fairly good relationship
ambivalent towards the subject. That's not it.
That's also... No, but that's not it.
that's what art is, of course, when you are
singer and all that, it's a super thing
self-centered. You see, I'm thinking about myself.
How am I going to do my hair? What is it?
What am I going to say in interviews?
How am I going to make my song?
how am I going to present it, will
I'm going to make a better synthesized sound than
The other one? I hope that I will
last, not the others. Finally, that's something I...
I rarely say it. I've already told myself
sometimes,
You shouldn't compare yourself to others
Things like that. You see, you are that
that kind of guy you'd expect if you were an artist. You are
You're a bit of a [ __ ], a bit
There's a whole thing like that, you see.
But you can't be like that at the
house otherwise it's hell for everyone
world. If you only think about yourself, that you are
A bit of a [ __ ], you see, it doesn't work
Not at all.
And me, darling, I can't do that, I
I'm an artist, so yeah.
No. And I've always wanted
to be a good dad. to say it was, let's say
It's funny, but that guided a whole...
a part of my life, but a big one
part of my life because ultimately I
I realize, but only afterwards, that
for example, when I was 20 years old and you
You know you're sorting things out a bit, or...
You're discovering new things, that's why.
People, you change schools, I don't know
What, whatever, I don't know. And then
And actually, I've always been friends.
with people where but I realized
counts after where I think, well, hey, that
could be a super mom or
He'd be a great dad.
Hm.
Like, he's nice, uh, he's a bit
Anything goes, but he comes out with some good stuff.
jokes uh
You see guys like that, you know.
Um, and um, so finally, one
In a way, I was programmed to
to be a good dad. Finally, although badly,
me, well, because it's my
feeling about it and all that. It's the same,
that's what happened earlier, we
He talked a little bit about drugs and stuff.
Sure, I took drugs and everything,
But as I've said 100 times, it has
never been into that shady stuff, the
drug addict who does whatchamacallit. I have always been
still in a clean environment,
What. Here I am. But in this
The goal is to be a good dad, you see.
For me, a good dad is a guy, he
It's Clinos, what?
H
Perhaps cynically, I have
the impression. It's quite funny because
that I can still say that
about the people we talk to in prep school
Those around you told us that we had to
not that you'd want us to finish too late because
that you were supposed to see your children in the evening.
So that proves he's not a liar, you
I mean, it's interesting. Oh no.
I wouldn't pretend, but I'm saying
not that I'm the best dad of
world but I am very but
Very, very, yes, I love taking care of them.
but I did indeed choose all the
on the more leisure side.
I'll give you some advice here, what should I use?
plays with my children. I am...
I still got stuck on Mario
A go-kart that's a lot of fun.
Yes yes.
But video game advice. You play
A lot more from you. I play
He loves video games, but it makes
Part of that, there you have it, I like success,
I love music, but I have this side
I'm also a total homebody, a total slacker, I
still plays PS5 at 51 years old now
enormously. So I have two axes
main ones. It's Minecraft.
OK.
Which is my favorite game?
always.
Completely. Yes, because there is
this little redstone system where you can
create like small circuits
electric. So, an electrical circuit
+ 1 + 1, there is one that has a function
who opens one door, the other one does
lower a piston. Gradually
You can build factories and you
ended up being able to build
autonomous robots, whatever, or some
Things like that. That's fascinating.
It's actually like a thing, it's
not just a game, it's a mix
model making,
game uh
I don't know how to say it, it's a... it's
It was a trip, you know, the thing.
It's still a real thing.
geek. It's quite funny because I
just before we record everything
At the time, I told you a story
AI agent and all, and you looked at me.
So even if you wear big glasses
but with big eyes, like in
What is he talking about? Um, and I think
that you would like it because
It's not very far. That's what you told me
It's about being connected to something, actually.
You connect something except afterwards it
interacts in real life with
people and it's completely it's
completely crazy.
Yeah. Yeah. You're going to like it. You say gr
open cl but we're not going to open that topic.
So, you think Minecraft is funny?
because it's an old game
What. Finally, but there is always a
huge community, but it's soft
gor
It's a really nice, gentle game.
You can destroy everything, you can do everything
rebuild
uh, when you die. Apart from that there is a
fashion where precisely what isn't like that
but generally when you die, you can
Well, you're back to normal right away, though.
that you put a bed somewhere in
in the game. Can you, a sheep, uh, it's
important in your life because from there
Where did your sheep come from, or where can you
You plant wheat, you harvest crops
Also. You optimize your harvest, you need to
that it be well lit and then
For something to work, you don't have to be
too far. So let's say you create a
iron farm. Finally, for those who
they know, it's to have the most
Iron ingots possible. But therefore for
that iron ingots are produced,
You shouldn't be too far away. So you create
a small field next door so that we could
to keep you busy while waiting for things to finally happen
Like that, you know. And I spend hours on it.
I've had it for years and
In fact, it's because of this game that I have
had capsulitis. This is a moment I
My shoulder is really hurting. I could
I had trouble moving my left arm.
I'm screwed, it's over. I could
I'll never play the piano again, actually. That
He did nothing. But what about the fabric of my
My shoulder is inflamed or something.
How does one get capsulitis?
Are you familiar with capsulitis? I have, I have
I thought I had one, but I have one.
hardens. It's less serious. This is the
[ __ ].
Ah well, I have a hardened capsule myself.
The duplicate.
Yeah.
Ah, that was awful. And because
because I had stayed in the same
posture with Minecraft,
It caused me to develop capsulitis. So the game
I loved him even though he was suffering.
She just casually says OK to me.
senior citizens' club, the little [ __ ].
Unfortunately
And then she tells me, since I'm going to...
to say that Clémence the peak that is
pass. She tells me we don't give a damn.
Here, go ahead.
What does it say down there? I
just so that more people can bear witness.
It is clearly written, clearly written, we don't care
burn.
Ah yes, that's what you mean by that kind of thing.
of something. That
It will teach you how to be mean.
Ah
OK. That suits me.
He's the one who... He's the one who...
Still, it's connected.
And uh, and the second game then...
second branch
Well, it's the GTA games. So, uh, me
I stayed, well, he was the last one who
GTA V has been released and I'm very excited about it.
plays. In fact, I finished them all 100%
% from the 2nd.
OK.
And uh, and GTA 5, I finished it 100% and
I'm eagerly awaiting GTA 6.
But afterwards, you have to take the children by
against not too small because when
It's even a little bit good, 10 years ago
to start playing GTA.
Yeah. Even 13 years is still
Quite a lot of stuff. There are some things that
drugs, prostitution.
Yeah, 11 is a bit young.
The problem with GTA, I have...
literally 20 years, that's when you
loses in the game.
That is to say that
That's fantastic. The moment you leave, you have
a mission and actually you hold no but
I'm going to steal a plane and then I
I'm going to go jump in the park finally and you
spends 2 hours at finally
But I remember it's Quentin.
Dupieu, who introduced me to GTA
because at the time, in fact, Quentin
Dupieu had mixed it, he was still called
Mister Oiseau, he had mixed my first
I loved his music and I am and
I had actually made a first album
without any rhythm, and all he did was...
rhythms. It would be great if he
mix my album because precisely we
is so opposed to that. There you go, and then
So finally he mixed my first
album so here we are from where we met.
He also offered me a role in his
first film, the non-film of which
I had the main character. SO
This is the only film I've acted in.
almost. It was that thing. And uh we
played a lot of PlayStation
together. We spent days
whole. We were supposed to maybe
working, but in fact we were spending
Initially, entire days
we were playing a game called
Manunt. We had to kill some guys who arrived.
discreetly behind them cut off their
throat and then after a day he calls me
You need to, you need to, you must go to the
I have a new game at home.
It's GTA, it's demonic, you can do anything
What you wanted was the 2 or the 3
no
and the first one where you could really...
to move around in the open world, as they say
And so, that's how I discovered GTA...
That was done with a stake 20 years ago, and ever since.
Okay, we're not playing PlayStation anymore.
together unfortunately I would like
Besides, I kept playing.
From my side, what side.
There was a time when I had
the feeling of actually burning too much out
of time. That's OK for you, that's OK for you
Yeah, it's okay because ultimately then
now I don't spend 20 hours a day at
play the game. I did it, though.
Young, but I was really very young.
There's still the music, though, which is great.
It's important for music, but
He spent 2 or 3 hours there. No problem.
If everyone is asleep at home
Yeah.
and that everything went well, that's
party. At worst, okay, I'll just go to sleep.
Math time. It didn't really
impact on the rest. And what's more,
Minecraft's music is already very
beautiful,
Uh, it's very inspiring, and the music...
It's the same with GTA, they are absolutely
formidable. So in both cases, he
There's some good music, that's all. And
You, uh, you, uh, you have after, you have, you have
a routine, meaning that you can
You go to bed very late, you get up very early.
for children's breakfast and so on
or you, uh, you go to the office in Heurfix, you
Do you do things like that or is it, uh
Is it more freestyle?
Yes. Well, it's simply the way things are going because
that when the children wake up, they
come to see us in the room.
OK. Hi Dad, hi Mom, and then
Well, it's often mom first
Finally, and so there you have it, he wakes us up
So, what exactly is it that makes you come and tell us?
Good morning, and let the day begin!
Like that, but it's nice. I like
GOOD. I, in fact, am before that I am
Well, that's enough, casino and all, but...
Getting up too late is also a bit of a drawback.
weird. You get the feeling it's a party
It kind of happened without you and you...
It's strange, I find it a bit glo
to get up at 2pm and even Christophe that
I loved the singer Christophe.
sure, and I admired it in every way.
facets, but on the other hand, I get up at 7pm
I was like, are you sure it's when?
even a little
Yeah, you see, that's the vibe of your life.
in a way, in the morning anyway
That's great!
And actually it's stupid but it's just
also be horrible rhythm all
simply from nature. The sun
Get up, you get up. Let's say it's a
A little while later in winter, that's pretty much it.
to go to bed because and to go to bed
At 5pm, that's kind of stupid, you know.
H
And now you're on tour, so finally you
continues throughout the entire year there.
Do you know how many dates you have left?
Vaguely?
Ah, a lot, because ultimately, in fact
we wrote a first section, how did we
What did you call that? Date pâté. After
we need to stop filming because he
priority must be given to the festival which
are now kind of the super
Live champions. So, to prevent there
has competition when I make a
festival, it's not necessary that people
come to my concerts, don't buy
their festival feet. So you must
to stop filming very early for
leave all the space for spring and summer.
So, I need to do about thirty of them.
around forty festivals
during the summer, many, many to
the foreigner. So, I'm very much in agreement with that.
happy because
uh, I like to think that I'm a
international artist. I don't know, there
has something
You have it, right? I think.
Ah, more or less. Finally, I've already had
a period that was more
international with Sexuality, my album
with Giman, precisely. There, I was
truly international, I could
signing autographs in New York or at
London and everything else since
a few years, I mean, it's been
calm.
But it's not a big deal. But that doesn't change the fact that
I am very happy to return, I
I don't know, even in Barcelona and so on and
etc. So, there you have it. And after that,
I'll resume in the fall, so uh...
a regular tour, you know, from room to room
room. There are still some places left where
we can see you
That ? No, it's not on sale yet.
because that's precisely what we're waiting for the
festivals have passed to announce
Now it's all just stories about
ticketing for things like that. He
you have to walk on the flat strips of
person.
But I don't do that thing, plus he
The more people there are, the more expensive it is.
I know, to be honest, maybe I
I could do it, but I don't even know how.
how do we do what?
And you're playing in Paris again?
I'm going to play again in Paris, but I'm not saying
not
exactly when and where.
OK. Yeah, we'll be there. Yeah,
I'll be there. In any case, I am very
very hot and in this case the Yeah,
This album is absolutely insane. I find
that he is
It's not enough, maybe my
perception, but it's not enough, uh
recognized for its true worth. No, you
maybe a piece of meat. No, no, but he has
A huge success. But what I
I mean, that's what...
No, no, but at the level of the
Well, not that much, I think he could
to be he really is he really is
extra. It's true that we can see it, it's true
that we hope for, I admit that really is
out of sincerity, but I still hope
that people will say, "Oh my, what a genius! What
I think that's my genius in the end.
that I want people to say, but then, well, I
I can't go down that road.
daily life, but sometimes it's true that
"It crosses my mind." No
No, but I think that, well, there you go.
So I don't agree, but it's
It's true that it's complicated. I could
Not saying it was okay anyway, it was just okay.
Before. I think it was good but
You've created a masterpiece or two in
early in your career, that's when you arrive on
I hope so, I wish you one or more
masterpiece.
So this is my real comeback and but I
finds that it is not perceived as a
masterpiece. I'm sorry. No, but
You're telling me you don't agree.
I'm telling you.
No, but I receive letters or...
Things like that. Yeah, but I see that
that you mean. Let's go, G. I am
All right. It's not
It should be a tsunami. Me, I
I thought today that tsunamis are
reserved for, uh, damn, they're reserved
because I have children from my internship there,
but they are reserved for Jul and and
approximately
Yeah, it's just urban rap music.
That's what dominates the market. But
it doesn't matter. Me at the same time, that
I've been here for 25 years and I will be
still here in 25 years. So I mean
I also think I have a
Extremely comfortable position.
Ultimately, nothing is expected of me except
to try and make cool songs
that make you trip. So that's great. I
I'm not here. Gender
that an album sells and that they don't
Honestly, it's the same thing. I
There's no "there you go," I'm occupying a space
particular. people put me in
a sort of mental box that I occupy
and that I will continue to occupy. But
I didn't even choose this one.
case. It is
It's quite funny because at the same time
That's why I'm telling you...
I also perceived it as very
international, that's what you are when
even though at the same time extremely well-known, extremely
Recognized but not popular. You that one
No
tall, you see, uh
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. But it's also
because I long confused art
contemporary music. I did
I've actually made concept albums
but who really are, I mean, who are they?
That's right, isn't it? No, but
That's great, but it's definitely that.
requires a little effort. Finally, I...
that's why I'm thinking that's why
I am completely at ease with
That's all me when I go to
al cinema full of good inello films and
everything I love, but when I...
Put something on Netflix where I go to
At the movies, I put on stuff like super
easy. That's why I always start on
I often start with Netflix, the super
comedy
and then once I've been able to use that
maybe go somewhere where there isn't
A lack of suspense. why not next
thingamajig and I finally finish once that
I've worn everything out with the really good film.
For what ? Because the really good film
you have to make a little effort
extra time to watch it. Must
make the effort to try to understand
because the other day I saw the end
I watched a film called Sirat
I believe.
Do you know this trick? Oh dear,
What a mess! But it is necessary
Thinking isn't a film, it's a
a little effort and then it's so
It's so violent, it's even an ordeal.
physical, but it still made
It's been a long time since I've had this much fun.
watching a movie is fine, but it's annoying.
And so I thought, well, it's the same for me.
I'm suggesting something a bit... well, of course.
that's not what I'm proposing, but
without any rejection or anything, it's not from
session neither of Taylor Swift nor of Christophe
My
Yeah
So, well, my music is asking
since I make 14-minute songs
and everything
a little effort. And I understand that
don't be the mass that throws itself on my
music because, well, there are
songs like sheep, there are things
like that. After that, I have pop songs
but I made pop music out of it because
I made a pop song once
Her name was Divine. I did it anyway
the urovision with
or things like that. So, but I like it.
Besides, I wouldn't like to be locked up
either popping to the max or that
underground. I like it, I really like it
finally this kind of mixture and
everything in my life, by the way, is just
mix because I live in the 18th arrondissement
There's all sorts of nonsense. There are sex
shop, there are some really nice apartments in
neither a wealthy neighborhood nor a neighborhood
poor.
So, there are studios, there are
gardens, there's everything. And I like it
For example, when this album which the
beast, there are all kinds of instruments.
There are super-intelligent people, there are real ones
acoustic guitars, there's computer equipment,
There's a bit of everything. There is the voice of
backing vocals, brass instruments, and
violins. I like it when there's everything
And all of this, that's how it comes from, that path.
it's coming, it's on the other side, it's coming
as it comes. Is that what you
conceive of all this as a work of art
? Is there, or is it
something that always comes from within
This moment in your life? You say here I
I want to be like that and I want to do that
thing. Are you saying that it's more
Contemporary hard rock, it's more niche
But I don't care. Well, I like
that is precisely the case
each disc is a piece of the puzzle
even of the painting. I still have
the impression of trying to paint a
a very large painting like the one that is at
Mona Lisa side
which is much larger. I know
I don't even know who did it there. But when you
Go to the Louvre, and look at the Mona Lisa.
Once you've looked, you turn
And then you see the other one there.
And so this one is very tall. And
Well, I feel like I'm doing that.
If for a moment I am, uh, I am interested
to that very strongly, afterwards I
I'm interested in something completely different.
It's all impulses, but all that...
I would like, in fact, I would really like
to paint the whole world.
It's still a pain to be the
painting next to the Mona Lisa. That sucks
You're going to [ __ ], what?
Yeah, yeah.
It's a bit like releasing your album in
The Beatles' face, you know, like, yeah
Yeah. That's really bad luck.
Yeah
Yeah. Everyone is here
eyes fixed ahead. Yeah. So you
They're doing "Yeah, yeah." And so
Finally, there you have it. No, but I think that
I'm really trying to create a work of art.
That's what I often say, but
I think that's true. That's because I
I know people might say
a few idiots and all, but I think
that I am truly a real artist. I
I am truly an artist. But the way
romantic of the romantic artist
ancestral, almost, I am truly one
artist. I propose a work, but it
It has no purpose, like any work of art.
Finally, a goal. It's just juice
people. You say, I think you say the
People, but people, we don't care about me.
What I mean is that I am
I think Clem wrote it in front of you.
We have no doubt. That's enough
funny. Then if there are people who
Yeah no no no but I mean no
No, but we can always counteract it.
especially a guy who calls himself
artist. I see exactly the type of
the reaction that this can create in
some. But
like when B declares himself an intellectual
What. You see, that sucks. Yeah, in
The more I said that I was a
intellectual too, earlier.
Yeah. So, like that, I checked all the boxes.
The boxes, that is.
Yeah, but you know those who want
They won't want to slap you anymore.
to slap you. So much the better, so much the worse, we
Doesn't care. And then the others
Yeah, that's true. But frankly, me
I haven't been doing this for very long.
Instagram
and normally from what I see
friends too, some of whom I know and
everything, there's a real outpouring of hatred
But for me, frankly, it's mild. I have
What, maybe a little comment?
He's mean sometimes, but he's
hyper
This comment is still quite touching.
wicked. It touches
touch. Yeah. Oh yeah, yeah, that can
touch, huh. Uh, like, yeah, yeah
Yeah, there, there, and then, uh, so, but me
I have very few haters and the other
one day I had an X-ray and the
comment from the gentleman interviewing me
He was saying, but it's crazy, uh, there's
no one who hates you, uh, totally, you know.
Like, there are some, they are really
divisive or whatever. I have
It's true, I don't really have any haters and
All.
I'm in something rather...
relatively neutral, then. Yeah.
And that's pretty good, isn't it?
because if I, when you are strongly
known and also I have no conviction
So politics also creates a lot
That. It's extremely divisive. There are guys
so since they never stop talking
of what they think about society, their
From a political point of view, there are people
who are really into it. Me, like
I don't care about any of that. I am in a
a sort of thing that's almost unassailable because
Well, I hardly know anymore.
domain of the imaginary as well as the real.
So anyway, I don't know, there is
No grip on the thing, you know.
No, it's true that
I think I was thinking about something else and
I was thinking about things you had
could go out elsewhere. But what is
funny about being able to take
in the mouth, it's that at the same time you
Say it's good and it's cool not to
to have a lot of people who hate you.
But at the same time, I think that the side
very divisive among the people I've met
here,
It's also quite funny, actually. That means
also to say there is a form of commitment
very strong and I find and I find that
It's quite funny to have people you know who
They don't give a damn, but who
arrive and who
They show up and they're going to tell you, you know
Then I watch them, I drink
from the little one, that is to say, I'm watching them
Here, I'm thinking, "Oh [ __ ], we're going to..."
to enjoy myself with him, not that I enjoy myself.
"Not there." But you say, uh, uh, but in
On the other hand, you need to have a sword-like heart, that's what it is.
But, uh, but I find that, I find that
Quite funny. Uh
Ah, I like that. No, no, but there is
These guys have some kind of legs. I
I'm here, like, damn, he's totally pumped up.
He's afraid of nothing. He, me, I still...
I am careful about what I say. I
I'm trying to be
to be the ideal son-in-law, but a bit of a mess
What.
Hm.
I'm going to talk to my mother about it. Damn,
You know that I saw, I saw, I saw that
My mother had the same name as yours.
Besides, I was told, uh, Damn, but
So why did I see Joel somewhere?
? Joel, oh no, he's my sister's husband
His name is Joel. Uh, well, uh, next to it,
It's my fault. I messed up
in my uh
No, my mother's name is Martine, my father
His name is Alain. I
Well, listen, we'll give them a kiss. And uh and
No, what did I mean? I
I'm going to ask Joel what she thinks about it.
think. Whether you're the ideal type or not,
if it works.
Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. No, but also
Well no, but what matters most
Besides, it's when, when, me, I
I see you well with my children, I hope
that they will then be, I hope
What for my children? I especially hope
that they will find companions,
companions, uh, or friendly companions
What we want is kindness.
We're not asking for anything more. He's the only one
The thing that really matters to me is
already when you're with someone who's hyper
Nice, you're already having a great evening.
It's great. Life is sweet. There
Kindness, that's really the key.
That's the basics for me. So already
When someone is kind, it's
sufficient. Then, he might think if that,
to have a political opinion, whatnot, to say
to be wrong 1000 times about something, we
Doesn't care. Is the guy nice or the girl?
is nice and that's more than enough
What.
But it's funny, you see, if I come back
to everything I said, to everything
beginning,
it's that, uh, in this character, uh, this
The mask you have with your beard, your
glasses, your cap that would look
closed, there comes a point when we can, we
You pose, we wonder if you're nice. You
Do you see what I mean? And then, he
There's that moment when you open up.
Yeah. Yeah.
which is still really very cool.
That's quite funny. It is
I'm trying to be a little scary too.
Otherwise, it's no fun. No,
No. Yeah. Yeah. No, but it's
Seriously, Kiss the Beast. It's at the
times the kiss and the beast. I need to
Be both. And then I do the
Music too. Music, for example
uh
Cool guys, they always look like a
not very bad. I don't know, James Brond.
Kiss Richards, Lenon, you have to know.
Yet these were guys who had
the very gentle air in life. Or the other
One day, I was talking to a guy who had worked
with the Yam Galager and we get the impression
that it was the Bal Boy and the guy was saying
"But he's the nicest guy in the
"What a world." He really is, but too much.
nice. Yes, but there's always a
the moment you feel like it, you will
potentially snag a branch or
something. It's true that when you can
Lenon between, uh, the little Beatle that he
is, then, the ideal gendarmerie and the
The IPI, uh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he mixed the two, he did
fear too.
There comes a point when you want to grab
one perhaps in your career as an artist
to grab a branch to tell you for
the character I am, it is necessary that
I, I must, I must be
super rock and roll. You see what I
What do you mean?
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was.
rock and roll, but what he has is that
it's not
It can't last long because
otherwise it's the same problem I
I was talking about earlier, it's that if you
rock and roll has been going on for too long.
becomes glo
And that's my limit, that's what I mean by that.
As for rock and roll, I'm all for it.
I did whatever I wanted. I have
I tried a lot of things, that's it. But
When it becomes glamorous, that's when it's for me.
It stops. And you were that guy, you
You said it a little while ago, but who
who ruins his concerts, who does
anything, which starts again, which is
torn, which
But I was doing it, really, but
anything. I really have a long
That was a nice time. He was my friend.
François, who we resemble because he has
also long hair and beard and
We're a bit like a nose, that's all. Finally and
I sent him on stage in my place. that
People applauded him, he was
a few songs in my place and then I
I came a little while later. Finally
and people could still see that
It was you.
Then when I actually arrived, people
but I also did it at Coachella
because one of the first Frenchmen to do
Coachella, I think, was in 2008 or 2009, and I have
I did that, I sent it, I sent it to my friend.
actually I got on after three
songs, dude, and then it was nice, wasn't it?
Yes, what I did was what I loved.
What I was doing was finishing the concert and
I was starting it from scratch, I loved that.
I was doing it a second time, basically. And then
I even cried sometimes. What are they doing?
people ? They remain.
Yeah, yeah, people liked it.
But it's me who got hurt. But I have
did a concert once in Brussels which
It lasted 3 hours because I played for 1 hour and 30 minutes, then
Then I talked for an hour and a half, but I
delivered, but completely. But for me,
it was something like, how should I say
? It's a way of being punk, actually.
It was a way of destroying everything, basically.
And then play some very fairly good music
beautiful, well Fantino, things like that, where
the Rournal
and right after that it all went haywire
anything. But I stopped doing that.
I do it because in the end I find
That's disrespectful. When is it?
even, and then a concert ticket is
expensive and all. H
So now I'm playing the game properly, I
give of me and everything, but not of a
no way, not in a pathetic way then
that at the time I was pathetic
Now I offer myself, but with dignity.
What.
And you were wrecked when you did that
or it was just OK
? But I was taking showers.
vodka on stage. I was drinking vodka at
the bottle. I was drinking, I don't know, at
minus 15 glasses of wine before getting on
scene. I was back on stage, I was drinking again
After. Uh, sometimes I would go back on
scene after a half-hour break where
We thought the concert was over. I
I told the guy, I'm going back, we turned on
light. So there, I played maybe
for 10 guys. But I was doing stuff
Like that, you know.
That's punk, that's pretty legendary.
also for those who stayed.
That's nice. It's true that the guys who
saw this concert in Brussels from 3am
He still talks to me about it even though it was a while ago
It was 20 years ago, and so I was
Total freestyle.
But after me, I am very attached if
you want. So, maybe it's a little
It's silly, but that's also my good side.
pupil. Paradoxically,
It's because at 20, I tried to be 20 to
full throttle, 30, 30 full throttle, 40 the same, up to
there 50 where I really am now, you
I know, the 50-year-old guy who I am
I adjusted my sneakers
problems, I fired the people who
They were toxic around me, you see.
And actually, that's me, but a little bit like that.
Supercharged, you see. a little, let's say
to the power of 2, let's say to remain
That's reasonable.
And you did yours, I think I told you
you read somewhere, you know you have
always made old-fashioned music
revenge. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, absolutely. Because I have
I've never really made music.
club or for example, me well uh by
For example, let's say, I don't know the
Beisty Boys, they knew how to do the
Zig, young but really good. Me for
For me, it's music.
in concert one of the most beautiful
Zenites, it was crazy. They're enormous
killers but like Raj Gen the Machine
or things like that, they're groups
young people. And I didn't know the
TO DO. From the beginning, I knew that
old people's stuff. So the story of
violin mounted on Michael the Great
sadness at TensC, nostalgia at
great trampoline. So I'm not saying that I
I'm as good as that, but this category
that thing, you know, that's more of a...
A bit of a guy thing.
It allows you to grow old peacefully
also because when you're R against G
The 60-pips machine is complicated
What.
Oh, but that's tough. So, I think that
Actually, it's funny that you...
Speak up because we are living through a period
absolutely fantastic where precisely we
can already observe the rock guys
growing old because we wondered when
even back then how they were doing and
I think they age rather quickly
Well, that is to say the Stones,
the Stones first and foremost, Johnny, he
had finally gone all the way.
Yes. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Good,
Aerosmith at CDC, so they're doing alright.
GOOD. So now, well, I'm here,
OK, they're doing well, cool. So much
Better for them, then. But now,
I'm waiting for rap.
Yeah,
I'm waiting for rap. dep
So it's very hard to sing rock.
that is to say, the singer from Gun Roses
d'osmith and all that, it's, it's
They are immense performers.
Sundays are for singers.
So, it's very difficult to do. He
It still continues, more or less, to do well
Do it and that's it, respect. But the
rap is also very, very difficult to
to perform on stage by actually singing
his song because it's a one
machine gun fire, the word doesn't exist
Unfortunately, but words are involved, and that's it.
Hot stuff, huh? I mean, you're getting off your back.
You rattle off 20 rap tracks on stage.
I mean, it's incredibly difficult.
So I'm quite interested. It is
as you know when you look at the
Formula 1, you say he might go there
I'm looking into the crash.
Like that, you see. Perhaps there are some
one or two that are going to screw up badly and
I think there are still times when there are some, and that
It should be cool if you take it
you're projecting yourself 20 years into the future even
perhaps more for voiram and nm.
Yeah, yeah
It might work.
Oh, I saw that. Yeah.
No, but Jul, no, but well, the people who
will grow old with Jul they will be you
I know it's the same thing in the end.
But that's exactly it. I
I'm impatient. How are they doing?
Growing old? Elsan plays and all, but it's...
I think it's great. The rockers were
surprised that they were aging well, they
They did it well. So it turns out they
These guys are going to play it really well, huh?
They're all cunning anyway
But for others it's more natural.
Yes, indeed. But yeah, and even I
I mean the way the body postures
When you do hip hop, are you rock?
are you hiding behind your guitar or are you
your thing you have the ch like that you like
that but
You're not overplaying the flamboyant youth.
What. You're still in a situation where
So, there you go, but rap is good, you see.
turning 70, being a bit hip hop, good at
I'll see, but it greatly interests me and
I'm kind of in a hurry, you know. I adore
I love the idea, I love the concept. It is, it is
True, that's... And, uh, you on your...
uh, your sound, uh, you're talking a little bit about it.
your Super Trump melodies. You have
We talked a lot at the beginning about, uh, you tell me
From Pink Floyd to me. Yeah, seriously.
Uh
What are you listening to today?
I mostly listen to Japanese jazz. It is
really thanks to Instagram. I discovered
Japanese jazz because Insta has
I imagine you understand my tastes a little.
Well, I don't really know how it works.
It works, but that's the thing. And all at once
Suddenly, he bombarded me with jazz.
Japanese
And I thought, "Wait, but it's..."
tremendous. So, a second thing
formidable, the third one too, up to
100 things I was there for, but it's not
It's possible, I need to delve into it. And then,
I really immersed myself in it. And by
For example, last summer, I was in
On vacation, I went on a lot of boat trips.
and I only listened to Japanese jazz in
boat. So this is really my great
something new for me. It's jazz
Japanese. Japanese jazz, late 70s, early 80s.
Old Japanese jazz. So. And that's
Not really jazz.
That's not jazz like that. It's from
Highly sophisticated jazz fusion with
extremely complex chords, passages
Highly technical, but with sounds
extremely well-crafted. And I love it because
that it is truly the science of
music. There you go, purely without anything
What else? It's music
scientist. I think it's fantastic.
And then there's something I loved
Lately, it's Christopher
Cross, the song Sailing where I am
stumbled across this song again. I say "Ah
Yeah, wow, this song really
She takes me far away. Let's say I like
"Really." And besides that,
I've been listening to the same things ever since
Well, since the beginning, let's say where...
I love it! What do I love? I adore
Culture Club.
Yeah.
Boy George. I adore. I have a compilation of
Culture Club, but I don't know, I know
I don't know how many times I listened to it
But well, a week ago it was
my son's birthday. Well then
While the cake was being eaten, we put on the Culture
Club where and I receive people at the
homemade appetizer. to make a
Aperitif, that's nonsense. Drinking
Kir. But
There's something, well, I put Culture
Club. So, there's Culture Club, there's
George Michael, there's Steve Wonder,
There are the Beatles,
even if I put them a little less on the
house, it's more for me for the
car. And basically, that's it.
And that's all I've been listening to for the last 40 years.
What.
Always the same records, George's Face
Michael, The Song of the Key of Life,
Steve, well, I'm listening to the same thing and
then I always have a little something extra and
Right now it's Japanese fusion.
You
Have you listened to Bob Marley? Yeah
downright.
Yeah.
H, I loved it. But that was all.
era, if you will, when the reget was
really trendy and all. Finally, that...
there was the 70s revival
And yeah, absolutely Bob Marley. But
It was also partly shameful. We
mocked the guys who liked the
regatta because there was a side to the
Regman of that era had a punk side
dog.
Yeah, yeah.
So we just give them a piece of our minds.
It was the "he's going on vacation" type of thing.
with a van
And then, in fact, he's lying on the ground. I
I don't know what, but I liked it.
It's like DJ Jerryou, that was all.
the world laughed at the guys from Jidou
Of course, and it's true that there is a
On the ridiculous side, except that next to that Jammy
Ray used to put Jamy Rai on, that was when
even a really cool one
so he returned this thing which was
supposedly ridiculous in a super thing and at
Finally, obviously, in the mega there are
great masterpieces and it must be said
I don't know which one, but all these
Jamaican sound quality
the thickness there's the thing there the
studio. Yeah, I'm more
Whether in the United States or not, you're talking to
Kingston, therefore, because because
No. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The studio,
Wait, because my girlfriend recorded from
The guy, I can't remember his name
that legendary reget studio, that was
A [ __ ] sad guy.
Is there a studio?
mythical in the United States where they
were they recording a lot? The real deal.
When I was in Jamaica, I was there
Okay, uh...
There was Sly and all those guys, you know?
who came to this studio. But
What's his name? Uh, Tf Gong. Tf
Gong. So. THANKS. You had it, uh, OK
and all that. Yeah, so the reget doesn't work if
If it's a super high-level piece of music, uh, the
his production and everything. No, no, it's the
I'm asking the question because I find
that there can be curves and
things in your music that could
to sometimes be related to
Yeah, yeah, but I can't do it.
flirting because Ginsburg did it.
But what a myth! And you know he is
Ginsburg is highly respected in Jamaica.
Well, a fighter. Well yes, well I
I understand why. Yeah, absolutely.
Gour, the problem. And in fact, there is
two groups of there are three
groups that pose a problem for me. Three
three musical entities, these are the
The Beatles because they were so
good, geniuses gathered together who arrive at
The recording phase has therefore begun.
who, moreover, clear the land, who therefore by
essence are brilliant experimental at the
Deep pop, all the greats
immense composers at the level of
Mozards of everything. So for them it's
problematic because we can't do
as well as in terms of the group. Finally
maybe some guys
It's a bit like Jo, you shouldn't go out
at the same time that's what we were saying
just now. And
there is, uh
Who else is like that? Wait, I was
gone on my Ginsbourg and Ginsbourg
It's the same when a French singer does that.
he used the earth technique
burned. He did so well
its chord progressions, its texts. Well you
Go ahead and have a little sex, you know. And that's
but on the other hand I find it difficult
access. That is to say, I put
I loved Ginsburg for a long time. But
for a very long time.
Ah yes yes I see what you mean. Yes yes. Or
there
I have. And on the other hand, when you fall.
inside and I know from the rules I liked
Ginbourg, oddly enough.
I see what you mean. Yeah, completely.
But my father, he often put
In the car, the album Love on the
Beat. And there's the song Love on the
Beat where the girl screams and this
The song scared me, you know. It was
Not sexual at all. Well, that was
terrible. I have the impression that we
Tortured, that's what it was. And it's true that day he
There's that aspect to it. Yeah, but who's good?
Very tasty. That's OK, architect.
Sophisticated and all, but it's spicy.
It is
Yes, it has a contemporary side that you
I was talking about that earlier, it's...
Yeah, that's it. But anyway, he did some
Don't hit.
And you had a third one in mind, you
You have more. Beatles Ginsburg,
It's Daft Daft because it's the same
it is also a form of technique of the
scorched earth.
How to do electro after the real ones,
That's so true. But that's where
I wanted to, I still wanted to
to take you there before I leave you,
This is quite paradoxical,
It's when you work on a little bit of everything.
Your journey, everything is that you, you
I was in the middle of it. And what is
Funny thing is that a lot of people
that we see up close, from afar, who have
experienced that thing because you were at
On the other hand, you worked with Guy Manuel, you
So you experienced it from the inside
anyway.
Yeah.
And yet you produced things that
Nothing to do with it. That is to say, you are in
The French Touch without actually being there at all.
Yes, absolutely. Yeah, it's special.
Actually, it happened.
Naturally, I was going to see a first
record label that immediately
signed, I said, from my very first meeting.
They told me, "Yes, let's go." And there
in the corridor of this record company at
my first the first time I was
in a record company, there were the
phoenixes that were in the corridor. I
Hey, these guys seem cool.
They've got the style and everything. And then the
Phoenix knew Daft Punk and then
Then there's R, they contacted me, they
They told me, "Hey, let's create a label."
with Virginie. Would you like
"Sign with us?" So I met R and
In fact, everyone knew each other. On
created this band which was the French
Touch and with the Cassus too, Kevinski
and everything, and then, uh, but only me
that's what we had in
commonly? the love of the Sinites. On
loved all the old vintage snitches and
we had watched all
the same movies and the same series.
That's because we grew up with Spielberg.
the horses
series like V, these sounds of Cintella and
everything and we were just trying to
redo that, basically, because we
we had the same tastes when we were little
what
And that really
exploded. It's quite funny because I
I don't feel it, and indeed you say it is
unique, that is to say I don't feel
today a kind of wave, you know.
So, there's the wave of rappers he
It does exist, but it's quite
It's a mixed bag, that's all. There is
They're each pretty much in their own camp.
I would say so, huh. No, but it's a bit like
the dadism or whatever. It's on
was obsessed with making music
international at the same time as integrating it
a truly profound nostalgia because
than the opening credits of cartoons
when we were little and all that. And at the
times
Being French, it's difficult to say.
But back then, when you were French,
You weren't exactly the coolest guy in the world, were you?
It was much better to be a
English or American musician. So he has
we had to find our place to be
international in a cool way. And this
We found it there thanks to the Sinté
precisely to do a little bit of electronic music,
It suits the French thing well because it
There had been discoon,
Jean-Michel Jar had been there, and so he
had cleared the way, and that was thanks to them.
It was cool to be French, François
from Roubé, and so we had the same angle
like that, to be French at the same time
how do you want to be international
So it's a bit strange to set up a
movement on this but nobody has
It was done on purpose, nobody decreed it, look
we are the French
but there was a movement I want
to say it existed, that is to say, is it
What is it, just you? We'll tell you...
named it like that and there you go
working together, there was a real
thing ? No, no, that's how we were named.
And there you have it. But when we were doing a
At the party, I invited all the guys from
the French at my birthdays and
I was going to everyone's birthday party
guys from the French. We were going to Thomas
Bogalter, I have been his several times
birthday where he came to mine or
Things like that. We were going, we
used to party together because we
some of them thought they were cool too
What else and all that. And above all
we lent each other clothes, we lent each other
We shared microphones and amps.
But it existed, it was
we were really a group that
knew and it often happened that
one makes a guitar for the other or some
Things like that, you know.
And you've never thought, "Hey, I'm going to..."
I'm going to switch, I'm going to go do some
the club music of it
Impossible, that's not your thing at all.
First of all, I don't know how to do DJing and all that.
It's not my thing. So, I am, I have
I went to nightclubs a lot, but I went there.
Not at all for the music aspect. Me,
I was going to look around. Yeah.
So.
And then, uh, and then it didn't suit me.
That's not going well. Well, anyway, if it had
I could love badly. I've never been a DJ in
blade. Me again, what
What interests me in music is the
raw material. SO
It's about sitting in front of a piano and composing a
something that didn't exist before. After all
the rest apart from the finality as I
I was saying earlier about the tour but
Everything else isn't really me and
DJing isn't for me, and then
However, I am going on holiday to Isa and
Everything, but I don't know in restaurants where
There's a DJ, it's driving me crazy. Bom bom
bom bom bom that you eat and all.
That's when you die of hunger.
more.
It's not, it's still my girl
He's a DJ and all, but it's not fair
It wasn't me, that's all. And so no, I
I'm not going to get into that, but by
For example, there's the soon, the finally, it
there is the remix of David Gua from Stre of the
Night and I'm delighted to have it and
I love listening to it and I love being
consumer of remixes like that who
They'll take you to the sun and everything, but
I'm not the one who's going to do a remix like
That. We are looking forward to the moment when we
Record it, I think you're taking it out in
tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. But it's a
thing, how does it happen?
Something like that? Just a GTA remix.
It is
I dreamed of working with him
because he's a real Frenchman
successful where it is important to see that it
is sometimes the 4th most listened-to artist at
world, sometimes 7th, sometimes 11th, finally
It's those spheres, basically. SO
I like it, I already find it fabulous.
And I also find, contrary to this
that guys say or I don't know, I
I don't really know what people say about him
Besides, but I think it's a
He's a very free-spirited guy, and that's very beautiful.
that he does because
He's ultimately a guy who does without...
to worry about what people think of him. So,
He makes songs for dancing.
Sometimes it's a bit of a nightmare, but he...
Love it. I think it suits him great
GOOD. It's great. And then what is there
What's great about him is that he understands the
crowd. He understands what they expect
people to dance. But that's
It's a gift. I think there are lots of guys
who make electronic music and all that. It is
But that's not it. That's why he
is not 200th thousandth in the world. It's for
That's why he's 4th, 7th something. That's because
What he truly has is a gift. He
guess what people want to listen to.
What a crazy hour. I was listening to, uh, some
podcasts, therefore literally from David
Gua. He sent one every week
Mix time on Radio FG and he them
was released as a downloadable podcast. He
There is, there is, and what was mine, but all
During the weeks, I recorded but 10
sounds. He knew everything, he was a
obsessive, and indeed, I saw him once.
or twice in the evening in Ibiza. SO
It's starting, you mustn't go to bed early
right, because usually it starts
at 3am 4am
He finishes late, but he's actually asleep.
Before. Finally, it's...
Yeah. Yeah, that's all set up nicely.
I imagine. And then, I think
I imagine shacks in Ibiza. SO
It's not very far.
And when you do a job
That way, you and he work together.
or you give it to him, he takes it, he
He does what he wants.
Oh no, I'll send it to him.
Yeah.
And then, we actually talked, I want
to say, we spoke via messaging
Insta, what else? So, to really put it simply
but I don't think he
was going to say yes because he is
so successful. I was there, good
What's going on, a song by
Sébastien Tier. Then he said yes to everything
Right away, and everything, and the remix, it is...
destroy everything and
and that the shipment you have to validate or it
He does what he wants? How is it?
Is this happening?
No, he does what he wants. I begin
That is to tell David what he should do.
He does it, and that's that. Afterwards, if there is
has a real, really something that me
It was awkward, I would tell him there are others
mix of other people uh
I'm going to say it anyway. Italian do
It's better, man. I told him, "Ah, listen."
That's a bit much, though.
repetitive. Well, he was nice, he
agreed to change it. There you go, but David
Getta no! Oh dear, I would say that would be
how to tell Cine Dion how to sing
Well, no, and remixes like that in
On the other hand, there are people like that, they
They do it and then you, you finally you can
It's your work, you can say something
thing, how will things be in 2026?
Normally the game is separate if it is
So there are different types of
There are remixes just for fun, you know?
And so these guys, they do this
that they want afterwards there is generally
That's it, 95% of remixes are like that and
sometimes there's a small objective
something like "Ah, if you want to make sure
that this song is being played on the radio, that
That would suit me. So there, he calibrated a
A little better. He might put on a
a more aggressive pace. He will put
the refrain the right number of times it
must. The intro won't be too long
But that's another story. It is
Yes, it could be a remix, but
That's what we call a command.
Otherwise, for me, the remixes are the guys who have
remixed, I never said anything like that
The guys from that era and all that. I have
I never asked anything of anyone except this
either remixes by Kevinsky, by Sébastien
or lyrical guys and all that. Never
no indication was given to anyone.
Do you like this music scene?
currently as it has evolved versus
You were born into a world of albums, that's all. You
I released an album, you sold some
deceased. Yeah, yeah, that's clear. No,
No, but I much prefer the world
of today. That is to say, at
the era
Already
to have a truly great career,
It was an immense, immense effort.
You had to have your hair done properly, you had to
singing perfectly the Barbara Str
George Michael, it took Madonna, everything
That. It was madness. It was a thing
you know that today finally you
can also make music, be a
little known worldwide without too much
you without making less effort all
simply because, well, and then
That's just the way things are these days, you
can play your music for
Germans without having been to Germany
Or things like that, you know. And then uh
also thanks to the computer, there is a
The thing that's crazy is that any
who can make real music
because computers today,
The computer, I'm just saying that to sum it up.
Of course, but suggest things. SO
you ultimately associate a rhythm which is
already done to a small sequel
Okay, that's already done and with a
Bad luck, you find a small piece of
pre-recorded sax, you paste it and then
It works and then you do a
Think about it like that. And so I find that
great. And what I also love is
once again my theory of the great
mixed salad,
that's because right now, we're at a stadium
really where you can really do the
A patchwork of utter nonsense.
Are you going to put a jazz bass on it?
a eurodance rhythm, but you'll...
grate over it, but the hearts, they are
gospel and at one point towards the end there is
the electric guitar, hard rock style and
that works. And I love that. That's us.
finally out of there, so he's doing some
rock, so he's having a relapse, so
He does this thing and that's great.
So then there's a more
Easy, you released an album, he...
sold because you were forced to
buy it to listen to it. So you
I was definitely earning more money, full
of things that are still relatively
owls that there were before. And uh
And also today, which is great
Artistically, it's really you can
to allow you to do anything.
And you, artistically for example, you
would allow me to say tomorrow, "Hey, I have..."
A great track, I'm going to release it
like that, without an album, without anything, or you
Do I still have to keep building?
For me, that's precisely what I...
I am still obsessed with them
albums. For me, it's a work of art. I
I could possibly release a
A song like that, why not, but that
It might not be a real habit.
For me, it remains important. Uh, it's
I'd love to, but my albums are...
a bit like novels. I wouldn't like it
whether it's a series of small
news, or I don't know how to say it.
there still needs to be a big one
thing. I still remain old school at
that level. But I also like it
to be old school if there's a guy who has
over 50 years old trying to do the
Fasting, I think that's stupid. So, me,
I take full responsibility. There you go, I've grown up.
The guys were releasing albums, I was
I'm made that way. So, I
will continue to release albums.
I'll ask you three questions and I'll...
let go. But I need to
often understand artists like
You have some sort of nuggets, a little bit
hidden. You have songs that you have
never seen out, hidden away at the back of the cupboards, you know
a little full, very passionate.
I have a little bit. Yeah, I have some
a few, but I never found the
good album to put it on. Yeah, I have some
a few, but it's funny because
that I have a very good friend named
Mathieu Tonetti, who is a director of
He also did a music video and then a US series.
Anyway, in short
And then, uh, and he's my best friend.
always, and he...
He remembers, he remembers better than I do.
You remember that song, right?
You don't forget it, one day you'll take it out.
But here he is, well, it's stuff
OK, it's lying around somewhere, but I know
Not really anymore. He remembers the title.
He remembers the structure and everything.
Listen, that's still a good sign.
Yeah. No, but it's nice, but
I want to pay tribute to him.
is still alive, right? But one...
a tribute during his lifetime because it is
true that all our early years
Bohemian, so I had this little apartment
shabby in the 17th arrondissement not far from here and
uh, and actually he was my dad because
that I played guitar, I did
I put my demos in front of him, I guitar them
And he would say to me, "Here, this suits you well."
When you do that and all that, he...
was extremely important in the end in my
career and all that, and so it's him
He is somewhat responsible for making sure things happen there.
where I still have some mini nuggets
in quotation marks from that era, but
He still remembers them. So everything
That's nice. Listen, I got a message
like this week of one of one
Sébastien Sor who writes to me, who tells me "I
I remember just before you launched
your podcast
In this office, R Turbigo, you were saying that
with the same enthusiasm as always and
"Et cetera." I said, "It's funny that you..."
Say that because in the office, we
It was 12, you see. Finally, and then him, we
has a special relationship and he cherishes it
"I remember." But I like this.
small side of what the witnesses of
And uh
Is there a piece
that you have that flopped and that you
adores
that you composed
Yeah, yeah, there are loads of them. In fact he
There's an instrumental track on my album My God Blue
which is called Yes Possible. So that makes
A flop, but it's music.
instrumental
electronics have bad taste. So I understand.
that it is, but at the same time it is a
Such a flamboyant piece.
The agreements are charming. There is a
a really catchy guitar riff and
All. This is already a huge intro to
the orgmin
on a sort of total climax and then bam
The guitars begin. I say I
thought I was going to score points
With that. Nothing
Nothing
Absolutely nothing, nothing at all. But nobody
not once did he speak to me about this
piece. There you go, we're going to...
Listen again. Is there one that
that which, for you, was not a gem of
Phew, and it was a huge success far beyond that!
that you were hoping for?
So what could have worked after that?
No, I didn't think so, I saw
Definitely not love and violence. I
I don't know if we can call that a tu
but that doesn't change the fact that when I do my
concerts, well, people know them
he knew his words by heart and everything, and so that
I really don't see the point. And
In fact, it is, and it's really true.
The story I often tell is
that after going to the therapist, I have
I made this song on my way home.
It was during the recording of
sexuality with Guiman from Daft Punk. And so
I go home, I change my clothes, etc.
I go to the studio, I play it for him, I say
Listen, while I'm changing, I have
I found something, I was leaving the house
The psychologist, and that's what came to me. And uh
I played it for him, he said "That's the
"grand finale of the album," but I
I wasn't even planning on putting it on
the album, I'm going to play because I
I had just done it. So I say, "Here,
You might find it fun, I know.
not what you can do with it."
Then, uh, and so, there you go, that's it.
I wasn't thinking of a song at all, and in
The more idiotic the lyrics are because
I also love love and vice.
There is loving love
It doesn't mean anything, but yet it
This song means a lot of things
But there you have it, I didn't think so at all.
that she would leave a lasting impression
That's it.
Yes, I can confirm that. I can confirm that.
Where do you see yourself? What is
What do you wish for yourself?
What do you want, huh? for this
disc for the next one for
I see my future
creating records in a very intense way
as I just did with Kob
that is to say, I am now in a
really the goal of achieving the
level of my heroes, not for jokes and
even possibly exceeding them
that's a lot, very studious, very
worker what I would like in my
dreams, it's a bigger studio
a real big studio, kind of like a hangar
something like that, and where I can really
put all the instruments in, everything is
All this is so cool. It's one of my dreams.
So I tried to make it happen. And the other
Something I love is point of
Croisette. So it's right at the end of the
Croisette in Cannes. There is a whole
section behind the building's palm frond
hard decor in a dazzling white. And
I love it because in fact there is...
there is a sort of... there is a...
abyss of three things I love there.
Four things. There is a beach jewel. SO
It's a very small beach in Cannes
Right at the very end. Nobody goes there. Finally
Nobody goes there. There are people
Tourists rarely go that far
over there. Right next to it, there's the little
marina for small yachts. It is
Not huge yachts, but already some
The yaoi are nice but they're not too
fat. I don't know, and there are some beautiful ones.
small lights, there are even some...
Little garlands are great.
Then there's the palm grove, so that's...
great. You're in the palm trees, it's too much
nice. And the ground is a little red
like that. I like it. There's something
That's great. And behind that, there are these
Hard-decorated buildings that I love. SO
For me, it's definitely the top floor, the floor
in its entirety. Uh, I know that just down there,
There is a jewel on the beach. So I
I could see myself living there, let's say the 25th
recent years
with a studio underneath maybe, you
see. And that's it.
So. So. Completely. But there is
a studio that I dream about, but I
I don't know where things stand. It is at
Villeneuve Loubé, I think. So that's
a city that is very close to
Cann. It's a pretty cool city.
There. But by the sea, there is a
studio called Sun Studio, like
Elvis's studio. And it looks great.
You heard about it in Miraval too.
to talk about this studio. This studio too.
No, no, but the guy, the boss, invited me.
several times but I haven't yet
had the opportunity.
It seems to be fantastic. I
think. Yeah, but it doesn't have that aspect.
What you want is that point of the Croisette
And all this is that there really are some
white Rolls Royces emerging from a building
white.
In terms of inspiration you can find
Something pretty crazy. I think that
I think that's my little Sacha side.
distelle again.
Hot. I'm going. Yeah well I'm
I was saying, in any case, on your studio post to
We'll have to go to Paris, otherwise...
Saint-Toin. You will have more
Yeah. No, but it's not Yeah, but
Saint-Toin, I searched for a while, I
I was looking to move. Saint-toin
It was cheaper. I was visited full
stuff over there.
It's cool and all, but no, no, not me.
Yeah, it's that giant studio, that hangar.
will be on the coast and this giant apartment
will also be on the coast. Me,
I love the French Riviera. I feel at home there
Absolutely fantastic. I really want to
spend more time there.
Tell me, Sébastien, would I have
the right to see your current studio one
times ? Because there, I projected myself
for a while now in the 18th arrondissement next door
of your hot dogs and everything, but I would like
Well, I have... No, but my studio. Ah
No, no, he's not like that at all.
That's not the Barcle thing at all, or I
I don't know what. It's a studio. OK, I have
My instruments, so it's quite pretty
because, in themselves, they are instruments
It's pretty, but it doesn't have that magic something.
It's a pretty standard studio.
wood so that the sound resonates well by
place.
There you go.
But it's not that kind of thing at all
like we dream of it. I would actually dream
It's very American-style. The guys who
They have entire walls of guitars, that's it.
that I love from Fin Ones you will love it. You
Do you have a book you could recommend? A
a book you loved more than anything. He
I loved it. There is a book of
the ecclesio that I loved. It's called
The round.
Yeah. And uh, there's a very
In particular, I read a lot ago
For a long time, huh. I read very little. And the
and I loved it because there was this
on the uh side
he was describing things, uh
Completely ordinary, finally some bars
buildings, mopeds and everything but
with gentleness. We had the impression
that each object describes a kind of ora
around as if everything was becoming a little
velvety.
There's this thing about it, like when...
Vazarelli started making orange and
everything, from the softer colors of the years
80, there was that same gentleness.
That is to say, you are in a suburb,
You have the impression that everything is
soft. So I thought it was
It was really well done of him to write
that way, to propose it. There is
Another book that I loved. Ben
I already loved ants. There is also
rats.
Ah yes, yes.
The same one with the rats that I loved.
So I love Stephen King and I have
I read another book that I really enjoyed.
I just wanted to go home.
of Patrick Deals who had been accused of
wrong or uh
of the crime actually committed by Francis
Holmes or whatever. And it's a
book but I know I know I know it's
not a writer or I don't know he did
That's what a journalist would do, I imagine. And
uh, but the book is devastating.
That is to say, it's a wonderful book
written by a guy who isn't a writer and
who experienced something extraordinary. And
That, if you like, still fascinates me.
more than a novel by a great writer.
That's to say
OK, uh, there's no search for
poetry or something like that, but it makes you
takes into account what he has actually experienced, a
nightmare. We and uh
This book really moved me deeply.
April 2002, after 15 years of detention,
Patrick Dills is released from prison without charge.
He was 31 years old at the time. Ah okay, already
and who is accused of an abominable crime,
it's killing little boys by beating them
Pierre, having lowered their trousers and
All. So, truly despised in prison.
Uh, it's not just a crime of style
"We thought he was the one who had done it"
"A robbery." No, we thought it was
He was the one who did that thing, you know.
That's it. And yet he's a guy
just a touching guy, like he's a
Jones is just like the others.
Yeah. Love and violence, that's what it is.
Yeah. Yeah. There's something like that.
Yeah. Yeah. No, no, but afterwards it's
Frankly, I'm not a genius at all
connoisseur of literature because I
Read mostly articles and also
I am now obsessed with
astrophysics and everything. So everything
Finally, well, there's the music, there's
In the family, there are video games, he
There's astrophysics, and so finally
there is more there is more space
What.
No room left for anything, basically.
If you had the opportunity to meet the
young Sébastien Tellier the day before the
the day he signs his first contract
first record label and that you
I could slip you a word, you would think
What ?
I would have said be more professional. Born
not, not, not, not, not be just the
puppet of your emotions, of your
impulses. Try to structure the
whatchamacallit. There, I did whatever I wanted.
What. We were just talking about my
tours before where I was really
Complete nonsense. And then
However, I have had successes. But
But it created this character, it created
this artist who is in front of me, I
find. Me too, just
it would be you would be you would not be the
same person, you would be more annoying. I have
I forgot about that side of things. I don't have
took life quite seriously. In my opinion,
It's a huge joke. So I did
It's a bit haphazard, but
Indeed, it's a privilege to have
It was also ultimately unconscious.
Thanks Sébastien, you're connected. THANKS.
We knew you pretty much everywhere, and then I
had a great time
uh
I also find it very touching. And then
And then, uh, I was born with a heart
breeze. I can't get over it. That's what I think.
That makes me feel something.
every time.
The worst part is that it's actually true.
That's absolutely true. I'm not even saying that
Just to look cool, you know. THANKS.
