Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale. On today's
episode, we step back from transactions
and trends to examine a more fundamental
question. Where are we in the market
cycle and how could that shape the way
we invest? Howard Marx joins
Brookfield's Alper Daglo for a
thoughtful conversation about investor
psychology, risk positioning, and the
balance between offense and defense.
Here's their conversation.
Howard, great seeing you.
You often say we never know where we are
going, but we surely should know where
we are. Before we get into specifics
about the market cycles, investments,
portfolios, I would love to start there.
Well, Alper, you know, everybody in
investment business talks about where
we're going. They would like to know
where we're going. I would like to know
where we're going. It's just that it's
not possible. and actions taken in
reliance on an expectation of what's
going to happen a year or two from now
are uh often wrong. But we should know
where we stand and I believe that where
we stand
has a lot to do with what's coming up.
But uh so where are we today? Um, I
think the most important thing to to
bear in mind if you're interested in uh
managing your portfolio with short-term
or intermediate term considerations, you
can ignore this stuff. If you say I'm
only interested in 20 years,
>> but if you care about the short to
intermediate term, short is one year or
two. Intermediate is let's say up to
three or five. I think it's important to
note that in this market optimism is in
the ascendancy. I think that the main
thing that changes from week to week or
month to month or even year to year is
the level of optimism versus pessimism.
When optimism is riding high, prices are
probably high relative to intrinsic
value. Prospective returns are modest.
uncertainty, risk
is relatively high and that means we
should behave in a more cautious manner
when pessimism rules prices are probably
very low relative to intrinsic value. So
that means we should turn highly
aggressive. That's the main dimension on
which I think about managing money in
the short to medium term. Is it optimism
or pessimism? Should we be aggressive or
defensive?
And I think that uh you know uh optimism
after after a very rough 2022
optimism took over in the fourth quarter
and as a consequence for the last 39
months
the markets have been on a tear. The
period uh 2345
is for the S&P 500 is I think the
seventh best three-year period out of
the last hundred. Seventh out of a 100.
And that tells us what's going on. It
has implications for what's coming next.
So I think that investors should bear in
mind that today's market is dominated by
optimism
that the world is unpredictable as usual
or maybe more so.
>> Mhm.
and some of the rapid growth that we saw
in the last half of the 20th century
because of recovery from World War II,
technological and managerial advances,
um, uh, globalization,
etc. Uh, some of those growth factors
are probably going to be less in the
years ahead.
So if you if you sum up prevalent
optimism,
unpredictability
and maybe moderate growth, I think you
would say uh you have to invest
carefully
and maybe uh maybe this isn't the time
for sheer aggression
rather for an upgrading of
defensiveness. As investors, one of our
most important jobs we have is to really
erh understand the importance of
investment selection
>> and risk positioning.
>> I think what you say risk positioning
piece it it defines beautifully but also
as equally important there's investment
selection piece there as well. Can you
can you can you put those pieces
together for our audience like how you
think about that? One essential tradeoff
in investing is between offense and
defense
>> and the other one is between
return maximization
and enhancing uh predictability.
And usually the things you do to
maximize
uh uh return
you sacrifice on predictability.
the things you do to maximize reliable
outcomes, you have to give on
maximization of outcomes.
>> That's a trade-off. It's important to
note that just because we don't know
what the future holds doesn't mean we
shouldn't take action. But I think we
should emphasize
uh uh events where the returns are uh
more predictable
and uh maybe deemphasize uh maximization
of return and um that's what investment
selection is all about. And uh everybody
wants uh high returns uh predictably.
It's just that they're elusive and you
generally have to uh decide which of
those factors to emphasize and um you
know uh the value investor
which is what I think Brookfield and
Oakree really are uh emphasizes
investments where the predictability
comes from a superior understanding of
what the future holds and uh uh
specialization
in a few areas u non reliance on shall
we say speculative technologies
>> and intellectual property and things
like that uh I think that those are the
important elements in in investment
selection today
>> going back to this balance between
offense and defense
>> you wrote nobody knows at the really at
the middle of the global financial
crisis I think the day was September 19
2008 when everything felt completely
unknowable. I remember personally
sitting at my desk feeling like the
entire financial global financial system
is really collapsing and it's really
it's like one after another there is a
domino effect. You always talk about the
how good investing
often feels uncomfortable. Right.
>> Truly attractive valuations
appear in environments
marked by extreme fear,
>> right?
>> Extreme uncertainty
and and usually some force selling. So
in fact, comfort and good investing,
they don't typically coexist. Can you
talk about that dynamic from from your
perspective?
Well, Alper, what you're asking about
leads to a great uh example of what I
call second level thinking.
>> September 19th of '08, couple days after
the Leman bankruptcy, was certainly one
of the most uncertain days in my 80
almost 80 years.
uh the the only thing comparable was the
low point of the pandemic in March of
2020 when when the world was equally
uncertain and when I also wrote a memo
entitled nobody knows I recycled that
that uh title.
>> Yes.
>> So the question is not is the future
foreseeable. Of course we think it never
is perfectly foreseeable and sometimes
even less than at other times.
But
when people
embody the feeling that you described of
hopelessness
and you know abject terror with the
possibility that the financial sector
will melt down.
Their negativity
tends to make prices low relative to
intrinsic value. And it's really the
relationship between price and intrinsic
value that we want to key on. And it's
it's obvious then when people love
things and feel good and are optimistic
and are happy and feel positive about
the future, prices are probably high.
When prices are high, prospective
returns are low and risk is high.
So when they feel the worst about the
environment, that's probably the moment
when
the price is as low as it can be
relative to intrinsic value, meaning
that
prospective returns are high and risk is
low.
And and you know, one of the ways I put
it is that the riskiest thing in the
world is the belief that there's no
risk. So, one of the safest things in
the world is the belief that risk is
everywhere because it it it puts prices
so low that risk is, shall we say,
minimal. Now, let's talk about
discomfort. If you committed to spend
money as we did on September 19th
and you're not uncomfortable, there's
something wrong with you.
It's only human to feel uncomfortable
when you're staring into the abyss,
but we have to do it anyway. And in
fact, it's more important to do it that
day than on the day we feel great.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh we have to ma master the courage to
do our jobs. What what should make it
easier for us, if it can be made easier,
is the confidence to know that as we
were on September 19th, that we're the
only person in the world who will buy
and everybody else wants to sell. And
isn't that the perfect opportunity for
the buyer? If an investment that we
make, it feels easy or
>> universally accepted, what should that
be telling about the price, right? When
people are terrified,
prices are at a minimum relative to
intrinsic value. It's all a buy. When
prices are when people are uh euphoric,
carefree, prices are at a maximum
relative to intrinsic value. And you
have to be uh very cautious. And we have
to if you embody the same emotion
or we may say psychology or investor
sentiment as everybody else
>> then you will fluctuate al along with
them. You'll you'll buy at the top of a
bubble
>> just like they do. That's how bubble
tops get formed. You'll sell at the
bottom of a c of a crash. That's how
bottoms get formed. and you'll do no
better than the average investor. Our
goal is to do better than the average
investor. So we have to diverge from the
average investor. In fact, optimally we
have to uh behave as contrarians.
Buffett says most things best. He says
uh the less prudence with which others
conduct their affairs, the greater the
prudence with which we must conduct our
own affairs. So, uh, if you think about
it, it's it's nothing short of an
oxymoron to say, you know, this is a
bargain price security that everybody
loves.
When everybody loves something, it it's
unlikely that it'll be on the bargain
counter. Uh and so if you're thinking
about investing it, you have to be uh
leerary of the elevated nature of
investor psychology. Uh one of the most
popular discussion topics today is AI
and most people think AI is going to
change the world. I'm confident that AI
will change the world. That's not the
question. The question is how,
when, with what impact, who will
benefit. I think it's all about the it
comes down to investment selection.
>> Two investments
especially to touch on AI, they're not
created equal and they don't have the
same journey. And maybe another thing
that you always talk about the what what
the most important thing is the having
the able to to align yourself with
asset managers or other participants who
are specialized who have done this
before or who are cycle tested in this
type of assets and they can
>> still participate on the upside. but
also your first principle thinking about
the risk management and the and also
understand the downside and I think
that's to me that's what differentiate
the the good investing from not good
investing some of us are inherently
aggressive some of us are inherent
inherently defensive I'm so inherently
defensive that I can't turn to
aggression until I believe that the odds
are overwhelmingly on my side uh each of
us has to as they say in football play
within ourselves. We have to do the
things that come naturally to us.
>> Uh uh the the chicken uh should not be
uh assigned uh to do daredevil feed and
the and the daredevil should not uh be
assigned to carefully uh shepherd money.
Um so and the the client might choose to
hire some of each. Mhm.
>> And if they can find a brilliant
aggressive manager and a brilliant
defensive manager and put them together,
maybe the aggressiveness and the
defensiveness will offset or diversify
each other, but maybe they'll end up
with brilliance and and and and that
would be a great way to go. As you say,
all investments are not created equal.
You have to have a good uh idea of what
you want to accomplish. Not merely the
fact that you want to uh uh participate
in AI but again with what balance of
aggressiveness and defensiveness it's
that to me that question uh underlies
everything you ever do in investing
including or starting with asset
selection. One of the
themes that runs through your memos and
your investment philosophies also is the
power of truly long-term investing.
>> And from your experience, what are the
biggest obstacles that get in the way of
behaving truly long term?
>> How much time do you have? I mean,
that's that's that's the greatest
question. And it's the probably the most
fun for me to answer. Uh but it it's a
big question with with a long answer.
Most of the elements of human nature are
designed to prevent us from be good
investors.
uh when things are going well, the
economy is performing well, companies
are reporting record earnings, stock
prices are rising, people get more
excited and they want to uh buy more of
something until it reaches a an apogee
at which they want to buy everything.
When things go poorly and the the news
is bleak and the prices are cascading
downward, uh they lose heart. they want
to sell and and when we approach what
might eventually turn out to be the
bottom, they want to sell everything.
>> Well, that's the opposite of what you
should do. You should buy low and sell
high, not buy high and sell low.
Um, but it's against human nature. And I
if if you want to if you get depressed
and and and your your enthusiasm for
selling increases as prices fall, isn't
that the opposite of what we do in every
other walk of life?
In every other walk of life, we buy more
when things go on sale. In the markets,
we sell more when things go on sale. So,
this just indicates the the the
essentially wrong nature of of of
investor sentiment.
And then again, uh you know, we have we
have the nonlinear
uh what we call the nonlinear utility
function. Uh most people care a little
about a dollar made and a
lost.
Exposing yourself to the risk of loss is
integral in trying to have a good
investment return. Uh so you know even
though our investment philosophy uh
stresses uh risk control, we're not
talking about risk avoidance. We're
talking about intelligent bearing of
risk. But people's psyches are warped to
prevent them from viewing risk
objectively. You have to take some risk
in order to make money. Um so that's
another problem. Then so investor
psychology human nature then we have
something called institutional
constraints. So if your job is if you
have if you're an employee, what we call
an agent, and your job is to manage
somebody else's money, what is your
payoff structure? You make a good
investment decision, you get a pat on
the back, handshake, maybe a raise. Make
a bad investment decision, you get
fired. So that means that your
incentives are directed more at avoiding
losses than at achieving gains.
and maybe to an extent which has a
negative impact. So uh so you have to
overcome
the institutional constraints. Dave
Swinson who ran the endowment at Yale
with great success from 85 to 2020 said
that uh investment management requires
non-institutional behavior from
institutions
establishing a a a conundrum that is not
easily resolved. Um and how can you make
how can institutional
uh uh employees, agents
act as contrarians,
act as knowing bearers of risk for
profit and how can they uh increase
their uh order for buying as prices fall
rather than as they rise. Then then the
third factor in addition to investor
psychology and institutional constraints
is volatility.
>> Mhm.
>> And you know when when prices fluctuate
uh especially
uh well especially uh agents but even
principles get uncomfortable.
And so uh in the investment industry as
a whole there has grown up over the last
50 years since I attended University of
Chicago a concept which was developed at
University of Chicago which is that
volatility is risk and volatility is to
be avoided and uh I think that uh seeing
prices fluctuate up and down is part of
life. It's not a negative in itself.
It's not to be avoided in itself. Um,
and if you are wellunded, you don't have
to withdraw the money. Uh,
uh, you can't get a sell order from your
clients, then volatility in itself is
not to be avoided.
And I think that the excessive nature of
the concern with interim volatility
is one of the wrongest things about the
investment profession. Buffett again,
Buffett says, "I'd rather have a lumpy
15% return than a smooth 12."
And I would say to people, if you'd
rather have a smooth 12 than a lumpy 15,
you have to ask yourself what's going
on. Look, it reminds me the the one of
the memo you wrote in I think late 2022
called what really matters and yeah
there you gave the example as a kid
>> how we are told don't just sit there do
something
>> and in investing actually probably you
got to reverse that
>> well you know uh I I wrote that memo in
October of 22 uh because uh you know I
participated in a conference where
everybody's question was well what month
will the Fed stop raising interest
rates. And and I said, "Why do you care?
This doesn't matter. What matters is
whether we buy pieces of companies that
grow in value."
>> Mhm.
>> And whether we lend money to companies
that pay us back
and what month the Fed is going to stop
cutting interest rates or whether
security prices rose by 1% yesterday or
fell doesn't matter. Uh and yet these
latter two things are the things that
command attention
and that's largely because uh the things
that really matter are determined in the
long run and once you make your
commitment you have to wait a long time
to know if you were right and you have
to sit there and not do something. I
will come back to what you just said
about also about the the the the
relative performance and and in
investing.
We always talk about how it's extremely
easy to achieve average results but also
it's extremely difficult to consistently
be above average. And in your dare to be
great and dare to be great two memos,
right? You wrote about that,
>> you know, to be great investors must
dare to be different,
>> must dare to be wrong,
>> but also must dare to look wrong,
>> right? And and the and when we talk
about the things that interfere with
good performance,
this this nails it.
>> Mhm. You know, again, Dave Swenson used
my favorite two-word phrase that good
investing requires the adoption of
uncomfortably idiosyncratic positions.
Uh, you have to dare to be different
from others. If I mean it it it it's
obvious that if you invest the same as
everybody else, you can't be superior.
But I just want to jump to one final
topic given we are coming up to the up
to the time. One of the also if you take
a giant step back think about the with
your experience 57 years in the business
in the asset management landscape
changed dramatically over the last 57
years and and it feels to us that that
change even accelerating further over
the last 5 10 years giving the it feels
like we are in doorsteps of something
really major in terms of the hub of the
public markets and private markets and
alternative investment and traditional
investment all those different pieces
getting a little bit more converging the
similar direction can you provide with
our audience your view about the general
asset management landscape and what are
your views about the where the puck is
going
>> well it's a complex question
uh I think the important thing is that
the the things that matter never age.
Understanding the nature of investor
psychology,
institutional constraints,
overemphasis on volatility,
those are not going to change. The
importance of risk control, consistency,
uh non-reliance on forecasting, these
things never change.
uh investors are always looking for the
silver bullet that will permit them to
make a high return uh without bearing
risk. That will never exist. Um
superior investment will always be a
matter of superior judgment which is
always in my opinion going to be
personal and not machinable.
That's my hope. But um you know there's
a lot of discussion now centered
primarily around uh increasing the
exposure of non-institutional investors
to private asset. Private assets are not
an exchangeraded.
They're not liquid. You can't get out
the day you change your mind. Sometimes
you can't get out at all until the
investor uh the manager concludes the
process and returns your money. there's
no trading taking place. So when you buy
the asset, you have you don't have a
reference point that tells you that
other people think this is the fair
price. So there's a lot of uncertainty
associated with investing in private
assets. There are also great pluses. You
get to buy things other people aren't.
You get to buy uh things that don't mark
to market and consequently don't
demonstrate volatility and people don't
get fussed about. Uh these are not
assets. You know, every stock is posted
on the stock exchange every day. These
are assets that maybe your manager can
find that other people can't find or
maybe your manager can understand that
other people can't understand as well.
So there are advantages and
disadvantages in private investing and
you have to take a sober view and you
have to only do the amount of private
investing that is right for you.
You can you you should only do it if you
understand what you're doing and if
you're sure your manager understands
that what what what he or she is doing
and embodies your views. I mean the the
easiest thing to say about investing is
that there's nothing that's right for
everybody.
>> Mhm.
>> And and and if you combine that with the
fact that there's no silver bullet, that
means in what you said earlier,
investments have to be chosen with care
in each case. asset selection and you
and I we spend a lot of time and the
others spend a lot of time meeting with
our most
uh sophisticated and largest client
around the world and it feels to us that
there is also broader trend where
investors and asset owners and
allocators are looking to have smaller
number of relationship meaning smaller
number of asset manager relationship or
general partner relationship in a
private sense but more deeper
strategic
thinking about the different
capabilities and integrate something a
little bit you know thinking about the
not just the next vintage or next year
but thinking about the next three five
10 years trying to solve the things that
they try to solve could be asset
liability could be liquidity could be
other objects objectives they may have
and basically building a relationship
where they feel like the asset
management or GPS are almost like a
extension of their broader organization
and teams. I would love to get your take
on that. Well,
I mean obviously the ideal condition
would be to find a manager or a stable
of managers who uh understand and
reflect your point of view uh are
capable of giving you performance that
will fit your needs and make you happy
and have the skill to do so. Um, as you
say, people uh most people want to do uh
more with fewer managers these days to
simplify uh their lives and and uh and
and try to find those managers who will
do the best job of giving them what they
want, they need. Um uh and there's no
magic number. uh you know uh we we uh
just as in asset selection with manager
selection we uh we concentrate uh to
take advantage of what we believe uh we
diversify to protect against what we
don't know and we have to strike a
balance. Very few people have one
manager but we know that if you have a
thousand managers you'll have average
performance. What's the magic number? A
lot has to do with the ability uh having
the ability to select the right ones. If
you can't if you can't find select the
right ones, you might want to diversify
heavily. If you can select the right
ones and find a few that really appeal
to you, uh then you might want to
concentrate heavily. Uh uh institutional
behavior uh dictates uh diversification
of managers. Um but uh of course this is
another decision for which there's no
magic solution. It's all all these
things in the end come down to uh
judgment and insight.
>> Howard as always thank you for your
sights.
>> Thank you for your time. Say it is a
great great pleasure to have you here.
Thank you. Thank you.
>> Thanks for listening to another episode
of Brookfield Perspectives. Make sure to
follow us wherever you listen. You'll be
the first to hear when new episodes
drop.
