[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives. On
today's episode, Hadley Pier Marshall
and Craig Noble join us to talk about
the growth in private credit over the
last few years, where the opportunities
for expansion lie, and how the firm is
navigating more volatile market
conditions.
Hadley, Craig, it's great to have you
here today. Thanks for joining us. Why
don't you introduce yourself and tell us
a little bit about what you do at
Brookfield? I'm Hadley Pier Marshall.
I'm the CFO of Brookfield Asset
Management and also the co-head of our
infrastructure debt and structure
solutions business. I oversee the
origination execution of the investments
we make in these strategies. I'm Craig
Noble. I'm the CEO of our credit
business. With that, I oversee our
Brookfield credit strategies as well as
several partnerships we have with other
credit managers that we work closely
with. So, Craig, it's definitely been a
very eventful 18 months for credit at
Brookfield. Can you just give us an
overview of where the business stands
today? Our credit business, on the one
hand, we've been at it for 30 years, but
on the other hand, it feels like we're
just getting started. We've pulled
together everything we do in credit
under one broad umbrella, which we did
about 18 months ago to form the credit
group really with the vision that
private credit continues to be a very
strong growth area. By having everything
more closely coordinated, we can really
bring some of these interesting private
credit solutions to our clients in what
is a very rapidly growing and evolving
market. It's been busy. We are growing
the business significantly. We have over
300 billion of assets under management
today and the growth continues which is
wonderful. It's interesting because our
business is a little bit different than
what you see from other credit managers,
our peers because we focus heavily on
real assets, real estate,
infrastructure, asset back finance and
opportunistic of course with our
partnership with Oak Tree. So that is a
little bit different than what you see
out there in the broader universe. It's
exactly right. Many people think of
private credit as being direct lending
which is one part of the market but
really the the opportunity as we've
attacked it has been really coming at
real estate credit from a real estate
perspective and infrastructure debtly as
you know from an infrastructure
perspective which has been an amazing
foundation. We've broadened that over
the years building many of those
capabilities organically in other cases
bringing on other managers into the
Brookfield family. Our approach is
focusing on the areas where we've got
really strong operational capabilities
part of our global footprint which has
been wonderful as we originate
transactions structure them underwrite
deals and manage the assets over time.
So Hadley you're spot on that that has
been really our philosophy across
everything in Brookfield and it applies
very strongly to the credit space as
well. Yeah there is no question that
there has been an explosion in the
private credit asset class especially in
the last few years. So, where are we
seeing some of the greatest investment
opportunities and how exactly are we
approaching them? It's interesting
because one of the competitive
advantages that we have at Brookfield is
the certainty of capital and the quick
execution and scalability and then we
overlay that with bringing flexible
capital structures to bear that allows
us to really be a partner of choice and
it translates into a lot of
opportunities that actually grow over
time. In our infrastructure business
specifically, one of the big benefits is
the asset class is growing
significantly. And that's part of the
thesis that Craig was discussing a
second ago about the growth that we see
attached to our credit business. When
we're looking at opportunities, one of
the reasons that we are a compelling
partner from the borrower's perspective
is we can scale. And when you're in an
asset class that can grow quickly,
that's very valuable. Many of our deals
will invest 200 300 million and then
there will be opportunities to upsize
over time. The other interesting aspect
to our business is because we're an
owner and operator of these assets and
have a huge equity franchise that we've
built for over hundred years. That gives
us a lot of learning lessons and
technical expertise that we can apply to
our investments and can really dig into
the underlying credit profile which does
mean that we understand risk better than
others and we're not just a financial
player from that perspective. that comes
to giving some execution stamp around
the deals we do. As an example, we've
been very active supporting a company
called Posigen. They're a residential
solar company. They started out back in
2011 on the backs of Katrina in New
Orleans and building energy security and
they've grown since then. and we've
continued to support them in upsizing
our investment and thought through how
to be a flexible lender but more
importantly scaling over time in order
to provide that certainty of capital for
them. Those themes that Hadley's
describing in infrastructure really
apply to everything that we're doing as
we think about the benefits of largecale
capital, flexible capital, and a global
footprint where we can move our capital
around the world, not just to different
geographies, but also different sectors
where capital is scarce or where we can
bring our expertise in the real estate
space. Very often that's working
directly with borrowers. In some case
it's because banks are retreating or
have retreated as they have particularly
in assetbased financing. But in other
cases actually banks continue to lend
and have relationships with the
borrowers but we can come in and partner
with banks and allow them to have their
balance sheets be much more capital
efficient and we can bring our
underwriting whether it's in corporate
lending or infrastructure or real
estate. That trend of banks retreating
we've observed in some areas. It's in
the context like infrastructure where
there's a tremendous amount of capital
that continues to be required for the
buildouts. Another area is it's like
assetbased financing where it's just
less suitable for bank balance sheets.
Let's talk about something that's on
everyone's minds right now, which is
uncertainty, volatility in the market.
How is this current environment playing
out and how does that affect our
investment outlook here? I think we're
all surprised that the markets have
tested asset classes as much as it's
happened over the 10 years. But I think
it's been a good thing that we've seen
high inflation rate, low interest rates,
high interest rates, co now the
uncertainty and the volatility we're
seeing in the current market because
when you think about especially in our
core competency of real assets, these
are areas that you now have the track
record and you can show how did they
perform. what really does happen in a
high inflation environment to
infrastructure and real estate. Are they
really correlated? Data is now available
and I think it just strengthens the case
on the fundraising side for investors to
have more conviction that it can deliver
what they're hoping it can deliver.
Hadley, I agree with that point. We have
an approach to lending across all of our
credit businesses where we're really
protecting on the downside. We're
structuring our deals that way which can
be challenging, even frustrating when it
is an overly frothy market.
Infrastructure's been well all asset
classes have been tested but I'd say
infrastructure really stood the test of
time in terms of resilient cash flows no
matter what was thrown at it through
COVID and inflation and rates but I
would say the environment that can be a
little bit more discerning for investors
suits us pretty well. I would say that
the uncertainty we're seeing in the
market is really the upside to our
business. Craig was alluding to the
pullback from the banks. Real estate's
also having opportunity sets driven by
bad capital structures with good assets.
When you think about the uncertainty in
the existing environment, that just
makes our capital more valuable. The
same with Oak Train, their opportunistic
fund or Cast Lake and their ABF
strategies, it's an interesting time
because there's always seems to be some
disruption. Craig, a few years ago,
you're dealing with the regional banks
and the pullback there that impacted
real estate and infrastructure, the
leverage finance market, closing or
opening, banks retrenchment. There's all
these themes and now today just the
uncertainty and the volatility that
exists in the market that may most
likely continue to play out that just
makes again our capital more valuable
and that certainty and the scalability
something that really is honed in on by
the bars as things continue to go up and
down and there's some volatility here
and there. Large institutions sometimes
want to consolidate a little bit. They
want to have a bit more certainty, a bit
more assuredness with who they're
working with. And that's a dynamic you
were mentioning Craig around being one
provider that can really offer a whole
range of solutions or products as
opposed to just one. Yeah, that's a
trend we've been seeing across the asset
management space. Large institutions
want their capital to be strategic,
meaning they want to do more business
with fewer managers. That really plays
again to our strength given our scale
and the size and nature of the
relationships we have with pension plans
and endowments and sovereign wealth
funds and large pools of capital around
the world. In fact, that's translated
into our strongest fundraising over the
last several years, including in credit
as we're seeing the credit market and
specifically private credit growing. We
find these investors who want to have
very large and strategic relationships
and that's a big engine for our growth.
On the infrastructure sides, it's
interesting because back 10 years ago,
Craig, you'll remember this, and it was
a new asset class to a lot of investors
and we copied everything that we had
done on the real estate side because we
had been active for over 20 years. And
so, we had a playbook when we started up
the infrastructure credit business. But
that newness meant that investors were
really attracted to the diversification
since they really couldn't find it in
any other place. And then you add that
with the growing aspects of the asset
class that digitalization, the
decarbonization, the del globalization,
our 3Ds that we always talk about. Those
are major themes that are continuing to
push. But I also think it's interesting,
Craig, on the ABF side because that's an
area that's really untouched from a
market perspective. I mean, I think
about 10% is really allocated to private
credit at this stage. So there's huge
growth opportunities there as well.
Yeah, assetbased lending is one of the
more interesting areas and it's for a
few reasons. One is, as I said before,
banks are pulling back. These are
difficult assets to own on a bank
balance sheet. Secondly, it really
requires a highly specialized skill set
in order to invest in airplanes or
machinery or residential non-conforming
mortgages as Angelo does. So, it's got
this combination of highly specialized
skills to originate these differentiated
types of loans, getting as close to the
actual borrower as possible as opposed
to buying loans off of a screen. But
secondly, it's scalable. Many of these
areas, the amount of capital that is
required to finance these types of
activities is tremendous, trillions of
dollars. And the investment thesis
relies upon the borrower were continuing
to make their payments. But we've also
got this fall back in asset basis that
there's a contractual cash flow stream
very often, a hard asset that is
underpinning it. And Hadley, a lot of
those things are similar for
infrastructure, including the amount of
capital that's needed in infrastructure.
You're right. 10 years ago, we weren't
sure how the base would evolve. But
today the 3Ds just the amount of capital
that's required for any one of those is
tremendous. And the other common theme
in Howard Marks would be very proud of
us is that we live and we structure our
deals cvy heavy not cvy light and that's
a broad theme for any of the businesses
that we invest in. On the real estate
side we did a deal several months ago
that's interesting because it captures
two themes. One is partnering with banks
but secondly is this asset back type of
funding. And it was a US regional bank
who was looking to lighten up their
balance sheet, realize value on their
portfolio where it's difficult otherwise
for investors to understand what the
true value is. And we worked with the
bank, underwrote a portfolio of roughly
a billion dollars across 40 some odd
commercial mortgages. And it was
excellent because we were able to
underwrite every single mortgage as
opposed to a large large pool that is
difficult to actually do the
underwriting on each. And that's our
approach. large scale, able to move
quickly, be flexible, something that is
in our sweet spot that we're able to do
a significant amount of underwriting.
And there's much more to come in these
types of deals, not just in real estate,
where there's some amazing assets that
require more capital, but really across
all of these different sectors. One of
the areas that will be growing more is
the investment grade private side of
things. Usually, private credit on the
corporate side is subinvestment grade.
Increasingly, corporate borrowers are
looking for, I'd say, investment grade
issuers on the corporate side are
looking for debt and more with a private
structure, but they have an investment
grade rating. So, that is a newer part
of the market, but it's poised for some
significant growth. I'm hearing both of
you say that while there's a lot that's
already been going on and a lot of
growth that we've seen, there's still a
lot more ahead for this asset class and
for private credit broadly. Where do we
see things going in the next few years?
At the very least, assetbased lending is
a really broad market and there
continues to be some really interesting
growth opportunities. We have a very
large assetbased lending platform today
across Brookfield as well as our partner
managers Castle Lake on the aviation and
the non-avviation side of things. Oakree
LCM on the consumer side and Primary
Wave which is a royalty business which
we think is going to have some
significant growth just given the return
profile. And one of the next additions
to the Brookfield family would be a
partnership we recently announced with
Angelook, which is a non-conforming
residential mortgage originator in the
US. And so while that's the platform we
have today, I think there are more
opportunities to build out in that part
of the market, there's a lot of demand
from clients, from investors, and the
banks are not growing with the market,
not anymore. So that's where private
credit's moving in. It's a similar thing
in the infrastructure space where the
asset class is growing so quickly and
the banks cannot grow at the same pace
which has been a valuable tool to
introduce private credit and we've been
able to double our deployment. Our
pipeline is very strong in terms of what
we see going forward and data centers,
renewables have been a big active part
of that pipeline. But we are starting to
see these themes more broadly around del
globalization and that will be impactful
for logistics on the real estate side.
But transportation, utilities, energy,
renewable, especially when you think
about the supply demand imbalance that
we now face in many, many jurisdictions
that we invest in, that power need is
going to be something that's really
going to push the opportunity set. We
have a large infrastructure and
renewables business similar on the real
estate side where we can go out and talk
to the various owners of infrastructure
and renewable assets. And the
conversation we have now is how can we
be helpful? How can we provide you
capital? Equity is a very compelling
source of capital. But at times that may
not be the fit. They may not be looking
to sell equity. It may not fit the types
of returns and strategy that we have.
And so we can pivot and then think about
it from a debt lens and can we be a
relationship builder from that
perspective. And so that's been
incredibly helpful in building our
pipeline. About a third of our deals
actually come from our colleagues on the
equity front. So it's powerful. These
are very large scale opportunities. Is
the SMA business something that we're
also thinking has as much potential?
We've been investing on behalf of
insurance companies for a long time. So
this concept of these broad, complex,
separately managed accounts, we've
really refined and perfected over the
years with a handful of clients, one of
which being the Brookfield Insurance
Company, where we're managing capital on
their behalf, investing in private
credit, but doing it in a way where
we're being very thoughtful about the
insurance considerations, the
structuring, the ratings considerations,
some of which are very unique to
insurance companies. what we're seeing
from large institutional investors, I'll
use insurance clients as an example,
there's a movement of shifting a
portfolio from publics towards privates
and we've seen this on the equity side
for the last 20 years and it's starting
to gain more and more steam on the
credit side. Think of a large insurance
company who has liquid investment grade
and sovereign corporates and the
insurance companies need to earn more on
their portfolio. So they're shifting a
portion of the portfolio into privates.
The goal of private credit is to earn
excess spread, higher returns for the
same type of risk compared to the public
market. Capital is being locked up. So
it's an illquid investment. So there
should be more return that is offered.
And that is the case. There's excess
return in the private markets because of
things like the complexity, the
flexibility, the speed of movement that
borrowers value as well as it's less
liquid. The way we work with insurance
companies very often is in these large
separately managed accounts or think of
it as a fund of one where we can build a
customized portfolio for them across all
of the private credit areas that we are
investing in whether that's
infrastructure credit real estate
corporate credit ABF and we can
customize it also to meet their credit
rating needs as well as some of the
unique structuring needs that insurance
companies have. So we'll call that the
separately managed account part of the
business and it is a rapidly growing
part of the business. There's been a lot
of dynamics that have led us to where we
are currently with this and as you both
said there's a lot of room to run here,
but has there been anything that's
surprised you as you've expanded and
diversified and built this capability
more within the firm over the last few
years? There's always the unexpected and
some of the things that have just
evolved a little bit differently
compared to maybe what we would have
envisioned a few years ago would have
been just I'd say the variety that many
years ago direct lending was somewhat
synonymous with private credit. direct
lending to private equity sponsors in
the US subinvestment grade that
continues to be a large part of the
market today. I've been continuously
impressed by the desire for corporate
borrowers to pay for deal certainty and
speed and maybe I'll add deal
flexibility to that as well. Private
credit investors want to get excess
returns compared to the public markets
for the same type of risk which means
that the borrower is paying a higher
coupon or a higher return. And that's
because of the value that many
borrowers, not all, but many borrowers,
depending on their situation, place on
having something other than a cookie
cutter deal, something highly customized
to meet their needs or unique covenant
package or repayment or collateral pool.
And that's valuable as well as deal
certainty and being able to move
quickly. So those are really fundamental
elements of the private credit thesis.
And I can think of several transactions
that we have worked on, we're working on
now where really that's the secret
ingredients. The only other thing I
would add is the question in this
environment has been how do we with
decarbonization one of the major themes
that's been playing out in our renewable
business that's creating a lot of
opportunities from a credit perspective
is the fact that for the longest time 20
plus years the demand for power was
pretty stagnant and then you had
electrification occur and now the AI
boom and we have a significant imbalance
that exists and all technologies will
come forward and try and solve that
problem. Some are available now, some
there's a long lead time, but that is
creating a lot of opportunity set and
part of the reason that the
infrastructure numbers over the next
2040 are so significant. And even if
we're off by 10, 15, 20%, they're just
so big and the imbalance is so big. And
then if you add manufacturing returning
and onshoring that delization theme, it
just continues to build out even
further.
That was a really great conversation.
and thank you both for joining us today.
Thank you. Thank you.
[Music]
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
[Music]
Audiation
