Hello, everyone.
Today I will show you some tips for creating annotations formatted
as JSON to configure integrations with Datadog Autodiscovery.
Let's take a look at this example of annotations
configuring OpenMetrics checks.
Can you spot what's wrong with them?
It's not super clear at first glance, but the JSON is broken
because of the missing curly brackets inside the square brackets.
An annotation like this can lead to
misconfigured integrations that aren't picked
up by the Datadog Agent for monitoring.
Here is the correct way to configure this annotation.
Since it can be so easy to break JSON,
I'll share a few ways to double-check that annotations are correct
so that there aren't any misconfigurations.
This video focuses on Autodiscovery version two syntax,
since it's cleaner and used more widely than version one.
Let's start by writing an annotation to configure the redisdb
integration for my Redis deployment, so I can monitor it.
I already have a Redis pod running in my
cluster from this deployment.
If we run a kubectl get pods, we can see that here.
Here is the deployment YAML called
redisdeployment.yaml that I will be working with.
Since JSON can be cumbersome,
I'd like to start by writing my configuration separately in a YAML
format with the integration name on the first line.
All lowercase.
Then we put the init config.
Then we put the instances with our configurations.
This is especially helpful for larger
and more complex configuration in an integration.
Then I convert this to JSON
using an online tool, a YAML to JSON converter.
I'll paste the YAML here,
click on YAML to JSON, and we get an output
that should look like this.
This will be the JSON that
I'll copy and paste as the annotation value.
But first I’d like to follow the Datadog public docs,
which will include a template that I will
transform into a full-fledged working annotation.
We will copy this part here.
I start by constructing the annotation
by matching the container name I want to monitor.
Looking at the redisdeployment.yaml
I can see that my container name is called Redis.
This is the container name that I will be putting in the annotation.
Now that I have both the JSON output
and the skeleton of the annotation,
I can copy and paste this JSON into the outer curly braces like so.
Since I'm not using any init config options,
I can remove that section entirely.
This is what the annotation will look like
in a full deployment manifest.
Make sure that this is set in pod level under spec,
template, metadata, annotations.
Otherwise the Agent won't auto-discover the annotation.
Now, as an extra layer of safety,
I'll use a JSON validator to check that the JSON isn't broken.
Any validator you can find on the web should work.
We can see the JSON is good to go.
Next, I'll double-check the JSON configs against the conf.yaml.example
for the RedisDB integration to confirm
that the parameters are correct.
In the annotation, I have configured host and port.
In lines 19 and 24 of the conf.yaml.example
I can see that the host and port
parameters are required respectively.
This confirms that I have the required
parameters set to get this to work.
Once I validated that everything is correct,
I'll run kubectl apply -f redisdeployment.yaml
to apply the changes.
If we run kubectl get pods again
we can see that the pod has been redeployed and run again.
The next step is running commands to validate
that the Datadog Agent has properly auto-discovered
the redisdb annotations, and is now running the redisdb check.
First, let's run kubectl get pods in the Datadog
namespace to double-check the Datadog agent pod name.
Copy that and then run kubectl exec -it pod name agent status.
Don't forget the namespace as well.
Now we can see a huge status output.
Scrolling up, I can double-check if the redisdb
integration was picked up.
And we can see that it was picked up successfully.
Another command is the agent config check command,
which validates if our configurations are set as expected.
We can run the same kubectl exec -it pod name -n Datadog.
But instead of agent status, we'll change it to agentconfig check.
This output shows all of the integration
configurations and log configurations that are
picked up by the Agent.
Scrolling up again, we can find the redisdb check
and see the configurations there are set
from the annotation, like host and port.
Lastly, there is an agent check redisdb command
which tells the Agent to run the check manually.
This is mainly for troubleshooting purposes
in the event that the integration was running into some error.
Here I am looking for specific troubleshooting logs
and information that would let me know if anything goes wrong.
There's also a huge list of metrics that the integration will report.
Now let's go to the Datadog
platform to see if the integration is properly configured
and working or not.
On the Kubernetes Explorer pods view
We can see the exact Autodiscovery annotations I've configured
in the YAML tab of my Redis pod.
In the Fleet Automation view,
we can also see the redisdb integration running.
If I click Redis in that view
it opens up the exact configurations
and tags in YAML format that are picked up by the Agent.
We can see the same host and port values as well.
This view is convenient because it allows me to see
existing integration configurations without using a CLI.
It is also helpful for making changes to those
integrations if need be.
For the sake of this video
if an integration was broken, it would look something like this.
At the end of the day, what I'm really after is telemetry data.
So over at the Metrics Summary
we can double-check if the Redis metrics have came in or not.
We can see that it is populating in this view.
If we navigate over to the Metrics Explorer
and use a metric like redis.cpu.user,
we can see that my Redis deployment
is reporting this metric in my cluster.
So that's how I double-check that my annotations are correct.
I used a formatter to convert my configurations
from YAML to JSON
a JSON validator to check that
the JSON isn't broken, and Agent commands
to confirm that the Datadog Agent
is picking up the configurations.
I hope you found these tips useful.
Thanks for watching and check out this video's
description for resources to learn more.
