[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield Perspectives, a
podcast that explores the Brookfield
ecosystems role in creating sustainable
wealth on a global scale.
AI is everywhere, yet its exponential
growth will require equally rapid
development of digital infrastructure
like data centers and renewable power.
How can governments, hyperscalers, and
private capital work together to meet
these needs? To dig into the task at
hand, we're joined by Cicander Rasheed,
global head of AI infrastructure, and
Peter Thal Larson, the global editor of
Reuters Breaking Views. Here's their
conversation.
>> I'm Peter Thalen. I'm the global editor
of Reuters Breaking Views.
>> My name is Cander Rashid. I am the head
of AI infrastructure for Brookfield. So
Cander AI it's a massive topic but
there's a lot to talk about but let's
just zoom out a little bit to begin
with. I mean you can barely move these
days without someone confronting you
with a new AI application or some sort
of tool that they've developed or
companies talking about what they're
going to do with it. But I think what's
interesting to me is this frenzy of
activity is also a massive
infrastructure challenge which is where
you come in. So talk just just a little
bit to begin with about how you think
about the scale of that challenge and
the activity.
>> Yeah, Peter, the way I think about this
is over the last 250 years, the world
has seen six general purpose
technologies including steam engines,
electricity, semiconductor chips, and
the internet. And there's two common
themes across all of these general
purpose technologies. The first is that
they stimulated many industries, created
millions of jobs and led to enormous
economic productivity gains. The second
common theme is they're all capital
intensive. So if you take electricity
for example in the early 20th century,
first half of the 20th century,
electricity buildout required half a
trillion dollars. And you fast forward
to late 90s, early 2000s, the internet
boom required investment of almost $800
billion dollars into the fiber backbone.
$800 billion in those days.
>> Those days. Exactly. And you fast
forward to today, artificial
intelligence is the next frontier. It is
the next general purpose technology. And
similar to the previous technologies, it
will also require massive buildout. And
our estimates suggest that buildout will
be north of $7 trillion in the next 10
years alone. So to your point, the
capital needs will be immense. And our
view is this is once in a generation
investment opportunity for digital
infrastructure and power investors.
>> Yeah. Also a once in a generation
investment challenge as well just
mobilizing that kind of capital. Just
break that down a little bit that 7
trillion very roughly. How much of that
is chips? How much of it is data centers
and how does that work?
>> Yeah. So it's total capex encompassing
the entire AI value chain. Data centers
would be two trillion of the 7 trillion.
>> Behind the meter dedicated power is
probably half a trillion or so. Chips
for graphic processing units GPUs which
are central to training as well as
inference of AI will probably be around
3.5 trillion. So half of the total capex
is really chips
>> and then the remaining trillion is other
strategic agencies whether it's
dedicated fiber buildout liquid cooling
technologies and other capital
partnerships with semiconductor chip
manufacturer and design companies.
Before we dig into this just tell me a
bit about your background. How did you
end up in this role and dealing with all
this technology? Yeah, look I started my
career after finishing a mathematics
degree at the University of Wateroo.
>> It's a technical school in Canada and in
university I probably learned the
mathematical foundations of what today
is artificial intelligence. So that
would include algebra, comnatorics,
applied probability and calculus. And I
joined Brookfield uh 13 years ago and
over the last few years I've led many of
our global digital infrastructure
initiatives. And today I probably am
doing focusing on two to three things.
One is stitching together frameworks for
sovereign governments whether in Europe
or Canada or select Asian countries that
entail the creation of local AI
ecosystems and stitching together
frameworks for hyperscalers and other
technology firms that would allow them
to hopefully reduce the cost of capital
and help facilitate the buildout of the
large scale infrastructure required for
the adoption of artificial intelligence
technology. So you talked about the
hyperscalers which is sort of the the
industry word for the big tech
companies. Basically we hear a lot about
what they're doing. I mean that's a big
focus in terms of AI what they're doing
and what they're investing in and and
what they're spending. I mean I think is
it Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon and Meta
will collectively spend $300 billion
this year or something like that. But
these are big very profitable companies
and they're funding a lot of this out of
their own cash flow or by borrowing. So
where does a firm like Brookfield get
involved in that? What role do you play
in their investments?
>> Simply put, I would say technology firms
are building the brain whilst Brookfield
is building the body and a brain cannot
function without the body. The brain
cannot communicate or articulate
concepts or ideas without the body.
Hyperscalers to your point, their
capital spend on compute and data
centers has doubled in the last 5 years.
It's almost touching $400 billion today.
>> So, it's gone up by 100 billion since I
last looked at it, which is uh this is
seems to be what's happening happening a
lot at the moment.
>> Exactly, Peter. And I think there's a
couple of things that sometimes get lost
in these big numbers. $400 billion a
year, no doubt. That's an enormous
figure. Loss of capital and often times
technology firms who are not supposed to
be capital intensive businesses get
scrutinized for their capex needs. And
where we come into the picture is we
just want to build a backbone of AI
infrastructure for these companies. You
want to build the body which will allow
them to put the brain to work. So I like
the brain body analogy. So just just
explain that a little bit more. What are
the components of the body that BrookFed
is involved in building? If you break
down the AI value chain, Peter, it
really is four things. Land, power, data
centers, and compute or GPUs. We have
been active across all of those
categories. Today we are one of the
largest hypers scale data center
developers in the world predominantly in
the Americas and Europe. We are also one
of the largest private renewable power
developers in the world. On the data
center side our pipeline is north of 10
gawatt. We have funded a few compute
companies through structured
instruments. And a couple of years ago,
we teamed up with Intel to build the
first advanced semiconductor chip
manufacturing facility in Arizona, the
US. So the value chain is simple. It's
comprised of four components and we've
been playing across all four of those
components for the last several years if
not decades.
>> So just thinking about the financial
challenge then because this is enormous,
right? I mean I was looking at a recent
Morgan Stanley report but they were
talking about just data centers the
requirement being $3 trillion over four
years or something like that and their
assumption was half of that would be
funded by the big tech companies and
basically the other half would have to
come from firms like Brookfield and
financial markets and so forth. So how
do you assess those investments? There's
an element here of you know you're
trying to sort of figure out where the
world is going and what the future looks
like when you're trying to make a
decision about a data center or or a
power source or something like that.
What's the analysis that underpins that?
>> There's generally two key principles
that we tend to follow whether we're
investing in a power asset, a data
center asset, a comput asset or a
foundry for that matter. First is we
want to make sure for any large scale
development, there's an offtake
agreement with a highly credible
investment grade counterparty on the
other side.
>> And the second is in an absolute
downside scenario, we get our money back
and a minimum return on it. As long as
we follow those two principles, the
addressable market is large enough for
us to continue to deploy large scale
capital in the AI space and continue to
be a dominant player.
>> So then just coming back to those
numbers trillion half dollars is not all
going to come from Brookfield. So how do
you sort of see this capital coming
together?
>> You're right, Brookfield alone will not
be able to fund it all. This will
require combination of public markets as
well as private markets. There will be
need for creation of secondary market
vehicles for stabilized data centers. We
recently did that here in Europe through
our portfolio company data 4 where we
carved out a portfolio of 250 megawws
which was highly long-term contracted
and sold it off to investors that have a
different risk profile for those types
of assets. In addition to that of course
on the debt side we will need the
support of or the sector for that matter
we'll need the support of the US PP
market CNBS market ABS market and as
well as project finance market and then
the last source of capital or support
rather will come from sovereign
governments there's a huge push towards
ensuring security of data sovereignty of
compute for national security purposes
as well as economic productivity
purposes and that will probably require
the federal ederal and provincial or
municipal governments to step in with
some level of support. Just want to talk
about energy because that comes up a lot
and it seems to be a really big
challenge. I mean clearly these data
centers consume a lot of electricity. I
think the international energy agency
reckons electricity demand from data
centers worldwide is going to double by
2030 to 945 terowatt hours. I mean that
is a huge amount of electricity. What
are the big challenges you think that we
face in terms of supplying that
electricity and I guess making sure that
we don't run out of power in other parts
of the economy at the same time?
>> Yeah, look there's a few challenges,
right? I think the first thing I would
say Peter is capital will not be a
constraint and power generation will not
be a constraint. The real constraint
will be or the grid rather. The question
then is how do you solve the grid
equation? So in the US for context the
next 7 years there is expected demand
for data centers of 50 gawatt but only
20 gawatt of the 50 gawatt has already
been identified meaning only 20 of the
50 gawatt has readily available grid
capacity. So there's grid shortages for
more than half of the expected demand.
Now the question is how do you solve for
that? I think there's two potential
solutions and we're seeing some of that
play out already. One is interimm power
solution whether it's fuel cells or a
combined combustion gas generators or
another type of interimm solution and in
fact in the last 12 months alone 3 gaw
of interimm power solutions have been
announced in the US and Europe alone and
the second solution is will probably
become a long-term trend which is take
compute where the power sources
historically power was brought to the
computing centers going forward network
supercomputers will be taken to the
power sources. Those are two ways to
solve the grid problem. Right? There is
an issue there though, isn't there? As I
understand it, if you're training a
model or something like that, you can do
that anyway. You can build a data center
in the middle of a Norwegian fjord or
something and have the power locally and
and all that stuff. But if you and I
like pinging a large language model or
something with requests, then that needs
to be reasonably close to where we are.
And that sort of inference data center
use is the challenge because in London
obviously or New York or Paris or
whatever there's just less space to
build those data centers and the power
associated. So how are people going to
solve that?
>> Yeah, you're absolutely right. Proximity
of inference workloads will be of
paramount significance because the
reality is going forward today more than
half of the demand in the US is training
driven. However, a couple years from
now, our expectation is 75% of the
demand will come from inference or
applications which to your point require
a closer proximity to the end user. I
think what we're going to see is a lot
of the training demand will get pushed
out to the power sources. So whether
it's northern Europe, Finland, Norway or
Texas in the US for that matter will
probably end up consuming a lot of the
training demand. the inference demand
which will be supplemented as I
mentioned earlier through interim power
solutions where grid just doesn't simply
have the capacity will support inference
demand
>> and just to be clear on that sort of
interim power that's literally like you
put an energy source right next to the
data center or something is that right
>> that's right yeah so there's been a few
examples of interim power solutions
being put at work in the US and Europe
recently as I mentioned 3 gawatt just in
the last 12 months but it is as simple
as you articulated which is CCGT
solution or a fuel cell solution located
in close proximity to the data center
itself. Amazing. I want to get your view
on the broad investment case cuz there
is a build it and they will come aspect
to this. These investments are all being
made in anticipation of use cases for
this technology that maybe exist in sort
of embriionic form or in some cases
don't really exist yet at all and sort
of an assumption that people will pay
for this and that's what the big tech
firms are betting very heavily on and
obviously everybody else who's involved
in this is betting on too. So you
mentioned at the beginning there've been
various investment waves of kind of new
technologies. You mentioned electricity
you know and that's the internet. I
mean, my other favorite one is the
railway boom in Victorian England in
1840 when everybody went nuts and built
lots of railways. And those investment
booms created infrastructure which then
later was used and became useful, but it
didn't necessarily work out so well for
the people who put up the capital
initially. So, is there a danger here
that we just end up with way too many
data centers for a period of time?
>> The risk of overestimating demand and
missing the timing is real. Those are
very important considerations. And the
reality is the next phase of AI at the
moment AI is really as you and I use it
a chat bots. You ask the chatbot a
question and you get a smart answer.
Over the last 2 years, those answers
have become more sophisticated. They've
become smarter, which is great. At the
same time, the next wave of AI, whether
it's agentic AI agents that hopefully
will run our operations one day or
physical AI or robotics, those use cases
are developing, but they haven't been
executed on a large scale just yet.
We're optimistic that they will be
implemented ultimately. But today, as of
right now, agentic AI and physical AI
for that matter are still relatively in
their infies. But I would say Peter at
the same time what's different compared
to for example the dotcom bubble when
$800 billion of capital were invested
into fiber infrastructure and led to
many bankruptcies. There's a few
differences compared to the dotcom
bubble. The first is unlike the internet
or the electricity for that matter
artificial intelligence is not a single
vertical really. It touches or is
expected to touch every sector in the
world. finance, healthcare, education,
public sector, you name it. So it's much
broader the application than just a
single vertical. The second big
difference I would argue is today we're
seeing in our business at least off
takes on the other side. So we're not
building speculatively. last two years
or three years rather both in our power
business and our data center business we
have seen unprecedented demand for
compute for clean power and it's all
been driven by long-term take or pay
contracts with highly credible
investment grade counterparties both
hyperscalers as well as the enterprises
the third big difference I would argue
compared to the dotcom bubble is the
results of the users of the technology
so Gentic AI and physical AI are in
their infancy. There's no doubt about
that. Just last week, you look at the
results. Microsoft reported almost 20%
jump in Azour revenues thanks to
integration of AI into the Azour
products. Meta once again the business
model hasn't changed. Their geographical
footprint hasn't changed, but thanks to
AI, they reported a 20% jump. And those
are two of the companies with some of
the highest capex needs. Embed spending
70 billion, Microsoft spending north of
80 billion. So the point is history
would suggest there is the potential for
many to lose capital, but there's a few
nuances here. We're watching all the
risks. There's a few nuances here that
give us the confidence to continue to
invest, especially the fact that we have
offtake agreements on the other side.
>> Yeah, that's interesting point. You're
not laying a cable across the Atlantic
in the hope that someone will then use
it. Just before we sat down, we were
talking a little bit about this concept
of the Jevans paradox which you raised
which has come up a few times. I know I
think Satcha Nadella at Microsoft raised
it and stuff in this context. Can you
explain a bit like what is that and how
does it fit into this whole discussion?
Jas paradox is arguably the most
important concept we need to grasp in
the context of AI infrastructure. So not
the technology itself but also the
buildout of this artificial intelligence
infrastructure. Jeans paradox a concept
was coined by a British economist called
William Stanley Jevans in 1865 and what
he noticed was as steam engines became
more efficient the demand for coal
increased it sounds counterintuitive at
first glance but what really means is
over 20 to 30year period Mr. Javans
noticed that the demand for coal far
exceeded his expectation because the
demand for steam engines as they became
more efficient increased exponentially.
And honestly you fast forward to the
20th century we saw that with
electricity as well. Over the last 70
years the price of electricity on a per
unit basis has decreased by 65% whilst
the demand for electricity has increased
15fold. That's one five times and the
population has not grown by 15 times.
It's really been driven by the fact that
as a resource becomes more efficient,
the demand for it starts to increase.
And that is what Satia Mandela was
referencing when he first on the back of
deep seek when the market was
plummeting. He tweeted these two words,
Javin's paradox. And today I would say
Javin's paradox is playing out right in
front of us in a couple of ways. One is
the demand the cost of inference in the
last 3 years alone has decreased by 99%.
And it's still not cheap enough. I think
it will continue to decrease and that is
very important for the adoption of the
technology. And the second important
component of Javin's paradox today is
the cost of compute and the cost of
capital itself. When you break down the
AI value chain, interestingly 60% of it
is not data centers or power. its
capital needs to onshore chip
manufacturing its capital needs of chip
design companies for the benefit of
their own customers and it is GPUs or
compute infrastructure itself and it is
very important that cost of capital for
60% of the AI value chain is decreased
over time and that is an area where we
believe we can play a very important
role through financial engineering and
through our structuring capabilities and
if you do that in conjunction with the
cost of technology coming down I think
that only be positive for not just AI
infrastructure but also for the adoption
of the AI technology itself.
>> Okay. You mentioned a couple of times
and at the beginning you talked about
governments getting involved in this
technology wanting to have control of
data centers, chips, you name it.
Obviously we've also got the US talking
about imposing tariffs on imports of
semiconductors trying to bring
manufacturing back on shore. There's
potentially sort of fragmentation going
on also with governments getting
involved. How does that affect this
growth? because I guess economists would
say this is potentially less efficient.
You're going to get duplication and so
forth. How do you see it?
>> I think there's a couple of trends
unfolding here. So one of course as you
mentioned is geopolitics or you know
tariffs. I put tariffs in that category
and that is leading to countries wanting
to onshore a lot of the capacity whether
it's chip manufacturing
uh capacity or the compute itself. So
onshoring of critical manufacturing,
onshoring of critical resources, I would
put compute in that category is the
first major driver here. The second
driver is the sovereignty of data and
the security of that data. And this is
where the need to create local sovereign
AI ecosystems is critical and that is a
fundamental thesis of ours and has been
the backdrop to some of the
announcements we have made including the
$20 billion announcement in France in
partnership with the French government
and a $10 billion announcement with the
Swedish government and there's a few
more of these coming.
>> I see. Okay. You're a neutral party in
the sovereign contest then.
>> Yeah. Look, as I said, we want to build
the backbone. We want to build the body
and we want to build it for some of the
largest tech firms in the world. And we
want to build it for sovereign nations.
Just to wrap up, this is a very rapidly
changing field. Things are moving
incredibly quickly. While we've been
sitting here, probably the value of open
AI has gone up by another few billion
dollars. What are the applications of
the technology that you are most focused
on, most excited by that are coming up?
Yeah, look I would say Peter from a
business standpoint the area we are most
excited about is sovereign AI and
sovereign AI is really application of
the technology in the public sector in
Western Europe there's a huge
opportunity to enhance productivity
productivity has been an issue in many
of these countries including the UK
where you and I are based over the last
few years but artificial intelligence
can really help with that and sovereign
AI as a business model for us basically
entails building out integrated compute
for the governments who want data
security, data sovereignty and that is
really exciting because it requires
large scale capital and requires
operators who can build and finance this
large scale compute. So that's from a
business standpoint what's exciting from
a technology standpoint I would say
near-term we talked about chat bots
having mesmerized us over the last two
and a half to three years next layer
aentic AI and physical AI is actually
quite exciting particularly enantic AI
near-term and what that means is AI
agents helping us with our tasks making
us more productive on a daily basis and
hopefully adding enormous levels of
productivity as they are adopted more
widely by enterprises and governments in
the coming years and we'll probably see
enormous improvement in AI agent
technology in the next 12 to 24 months
and medium-term I would say in addition
to physical AI or robotics healthcare is
an area that I am watching quite closely
myself faster drug discovery you know
reduction of trial periods from multiple
years to 12 months is really really
exciting I would say for the humanity in
general in addition to agentic AI and
physical AI I Peter, what about you? You
are quite wellversed in the technology
and the implications of it yourself. So,
what are you excited about?
>> I think that that the the healthcare
thing you mentioned is interesting and
in some areas that's arguably already
where we've seen the most real advances.
But that alpha fold exercise that
Google's deep mind did as I understand
it that's led to the development of
drugs which either are or in the process
of entering into clinical trials. So
that to me is more interesting than
chatbot that can write a limick in the
style of Taylor Swift or whatever it is.
Personally, if these AI agents can come
anywhere close to being something that
can filter my emails and my team's
messages and my text messages and all
the different forms of communication
that I get pinged with on a daily basis
and basically say, well, okay, this one
you need to know about now. That one you
can ignore completely. That one you can
deal with later on. That would be
transformative. So if there is an AI
assistant that can actually do that,
then I will begin to believe in this
stuff.
>> They're coming and I cannot wait for one
of those myself.
>> But hopefully we'll see a lot of
progress in that in the next 12 to 24
months.
>> All right. Well, maybe we can come back
and we reconvene at that point.
>> Exactly. Yeah. It's great to talk to
you, S. Thanks very much.
>> Likewise, Peter. My pleasure.
This podcast is for educational
andformational purposes only and does
not constitute an offer to sell or a
solicitation of an offer to buy any
securities or related financial
instruments offered or sponsored by
Brookfield. The information and views
discussed are subject to change without
notice. Any investment involves
significant risks including loss of the
entire investment.
Audiation.
