A few days ago, the ecosystem
woke up to a title that's enough to make
your stomach turn.  Largest
quantum attack on elliptic curve
cryptography toe.  Project 11, a
start-up specializing in
post-quantum cryptography, had just awarded its
Qday Prize, a nice little envelope containing
one Bitcoin, to an independent researcher,
John Carlo Lelli.  His proof was that he had
cracked a 15-bit elliptic curve key
on an IBM quantum computer
accessible from the cloud.  And right away,
we were sold the Big Thrill,
a jump of a factor of 512 compared to the
previous 6-bit record achieved in
September 2025. A demonstration on
real equipment.  All presented in Netflix trailer style
.  Still far from Bitcoin's 256 bits
, but the gap is no longer a
problem of physics, it's an
engineering problem.  Inevitably, in the aftermath,
the media went into overdrive and
alarmist S-lists popped up everywhere.  The 6.9
million Bitcoin at risk is on
everyone's lips again.  Except, well,
there's still a small problem.
All of this is very quickly dismantled by
developers.  A 15-bit key can be
easily broken with a very
shaky computer.  You don't need quantum mechanics for that.
In Joan Carlo's case, the
quantum circuit in question was working properly.
Yes, but what it produced was
statistically indistinguishable from a
random draw.  Classical calculation
disguised as a quantum suit and tie,
to paraphrase Rodolpho Novac.  So let's
be clear, no Bitcoin has been
broken and 15 bits is
light years away from the 256 bits that
protect your keys.  And at this point, you're perfectly
entitled to ask me, "But
Richard, if all this is nonsense,
why are you making a video about it
?"   Well,
precisely because behind this
little media drama, there is a real
subject that is not pretending, and
it is precisely the confusion between the
two that bothers me because while we are
arguing about noise of force
disguised as a quantum exploit, at the end of March,
Google Quantum AI published a much
more serious paper, Securing Eliptic
Curve Cryptocurrencies against Quantum
Vulnerability.  Therefore, securing
elliptic curves against quantum attacks
in cryptogams.  And in the
wake of this, a few weeks later, a
proposal for the evolution of the
Bitcoin protocol, BIP 361, returned to the center
of the debate with the idea of ​​organizing a
post-canticle migration of Bitcoin, even if it meant
freezing certain addresses with the
vulnerable freeze.  There, on the other hand, there's no more
magic tricks, just real, hard paper
signed by Google researchers who don't
pretend.  So, let
's start again calmly.  For more than a
decade, the quantum threat has been based on
a simple framework.  In theory,
the shorting algorithm would make it possible to
recover a private key from a
public key, in other words, to break the
cryptographic mechanism that protects
Bitcoin.  But but but but but but but but but
in practice, the problem
seemed out of reach.  Estimates
suggest machines requiring
tens of millions of cubic meters with
constraints so significant that the subject
was relegated to a distant horizon.
almost abstract.  Now, be careful, when
I say abstract, it's mainly for the
general public because the subject has never been
ignored by the developers who have
been working on it for years
precisely because they know that this
type of risk is not dealt with when
it becomes critical, but well
upstream.  What this paper shows above all is
that the order of magnitude is
changing.  In some
optimized scenarios, they show that the
cubic meter requirements are about 20 times lower
than what was imagined a
few years ago.  What is changing is
not the nature of the problem, which is well
known, but rather that the horizon at which
we will be confronted with this problem is actually much
closer than expected.  And
on this trajectory, Google gives its
own post-quantum roadmap
towards 2029. When we cross-reference this with the
estimates cited in BP 361 which
places the risk window between 2027 and
2030, the community is now talking about a
risk that is no longer in 20 years but
potentially in something like
3 years.  Much
closer right away.  It's definitely not the same.
Moreover, what is fabulous is
that since this announcement, the speed at
which
proposals, leads, plans, and
solutions to make Bitcoin
quantum resistant have multiplied is absolutely insane.
That joke about X made me
laugh.  There have been more
post-quantum proposals in the last 24
hours than a quantum computer
could count.  So there is no shortage of ideas and
solutions.  The main
problem is that even if it
protects the new UTXOs, it does
nothing for the old corners that are already
exposed.  We have already talked on the channel about the
old format address reused,
lost coin, Satoshi Nakamoto's coin, in short,
all that part of Bitcoin which, if the
quantum scenario were to
materialize, would simply be at
risk.  And it is precisely this point
which, well before this paper, brought to the fore
a deeply controversial idea in
the Bitcoin community: the idea of ​​a freeze.
Except that today this idea takes the
form of a draft proposal to
be exact, namely a first G, the BIP
361. And be careful, what this BP proposes is
not just the idea of ​​a
freeze.  Moreover, the term freeze is
not a freeze in the sense of "We target
someone and freeze their Bitcoin".
This proposal states, "This type of
signature is no longer valid from such and
such a date."  So the freeze is an
indirect consequence of the
rule change, not an explicit decision on
specific addresses.  Put another way
, upgrade to
Bitcoin, post-quantum, whatever.
Otherwise, your Bitcoins will be frozen,
you will never have access to them again.  In
reality, it's a
transitional mechanism.  First,
the use of vulnerable formats is gradually made
more restrictive.  Then,
after a pre-announced period,
the expenses
that are still based on the old
signatures are simply invalidated.  Basically, we're talking about a
planned phasing out of the old
signature rules for
vulnerable UTXOs.  And from there, we move beyond the
technical framework and into
something much more
philosophical, a debate that touches on the very
nature of Bitcoin and, ultimately,
our definition of property.  So
today, I'm not going to go over
the entire technical history of
quantum risk for Bitcoin again.  We've already
covered this in numerous videos on the
channel, which you can find here, here, or
here.  What interests me is
debating this admittedly bizarre idea
of ​​freezing and then seeing where all
this can lead us.
Very quickly though, to
put some context in place and so that everyone
starts with a basic understanding, a
quantum computer could only
attack Bitcoins in cases where
the public key is already known.  With a
conventional computer, tracing from a
public key to a private key is simply
not possible.  But quantum computing is a
game changer because it allows us to execute
algorithms that
classical computers cannot
efficiently exploit.  And among them, there is one
that poses a problem, the famous
short algorithm.  In the history of Bitcoin,
we have had several
address formats because yes, the protocol
aims for a certain [standard],
but the developers are not twiddling their
thumbs.  Therefore,
continuous improvement measures are always in
place.  There are updates.  And
besides, a small but important point, whether it's
the old ECDSA signatures
or Taprout's with Schnor, the
problem is the same because everything is
based on the same mathematical foundation,
elliptic curve cryptography, which
quantum has theoretically broken.
Historically, the format used at the
beginning of Bitcoin was the P2PK format.
Here, the public quest is directly
recorded and visible on the blockchain.
Therefore, all bitcoins in these wallets
are permanently exposed.  It is estimated
that approximately 1.7 million Bitcoins are
in this situation, including the famous 1.1 million
Bitcoins of Satoshi Nakamoto.
With this address format, it's easy;
the public key is directly visible
everywhere on the blockchain.  So,
the attacker just has to help himself.  Then,
things change.  We move on to
formats like P2, PKH, then this variant
with Segit in 2017. Here, the logic is
different.  The public key is no longer
directly visible at the time of
receipt of funds.  Instead, what
is recorded on the blockchain is an
H from the public key.  As long as the funds
are not spent, the public key
remains unknown.  Phew!  Saved!  Yes,
well, as long as you don't spend your
Bitcoin because as soon as a single
outgoing transaction is made, the
public key is publicly revealed
in the transaction.  You can see on
the screen that when an expense is
incurred, the public key appears as if
by magic.  And with that, the
problems begin too.  If an
address is reused after having already been
used, then the public key is already
known and therefore new funds
sent to that address
also become exposed.  Well, in the meantime,
a little aside, if you want to
secure your Bitcoin against
quantum risk, well, you create a new
blank address, you send your Bitcoin
to it and while waiting to find a
solution, in any case, if you do not
make any outgoing transactions, your
bitcoins are untouchable.  So in
itself, there's no need to get
all worked up about it because
even if a quantum attack were to
happen the day after tomorrow, you would still have
tomorrow to simply transfer your
BTC to a blank address.  Then
came the P2TR format with Taprout in
2021. Again, I won't go
into the technical details, but for
our purposes, it doesn't solve
the problem either.  Standard root outputs
also remain vulnerable.
In short, in all cases, as soon as a
public key is known, it becomes
vulnerable in the model where
the short algorithm is applicable.
Overall, Google's research paper
tells us about approximately 6.7 million
Bitcoins.  So it starts to add up to a
hefty amount of money.
The situation can be summarized very simply.  Part
of Bitcoin is already permanently exposed
, another part becomes exposed at the
moment of use.  From
there, there are two types of attack.  The
first target of Bitcoin whose
public key is already known, what is
called a long range attack, is a bit like what
I call the One Piece of
Bitcoin for the first
quantum attacker on Bitcoin who succeeds in
the exploit.  And then there is a second
type of attack which concerns
wallets whose public keys are
hidden but which could take place
when a transaction is broadcast on
the blockchain while waiting to be recorded
in a transaction.  Ah yes indeed,
even if you have secured your Bitcoin by
putting it on a blank address,
the moment you announce on the
blockchain that you want to make a
transaction, you necessarily publish
the famous public key and it becomes
visible in what is called the same
hen, namely the transaction waiting room
, if you will among the
miners.  So an attacker can then
try to derive the public key and
offer a competing transaction
with much higher fees to
get ahead of you and at that moment
grab your Bitcoin.  It's cruel, I know.
Well, there is a solution for
that too, but we'll talk about it in another
video because it involves the
mining industry.  So I still need to
explain a lot of things to you.  But
even without that, if you are really
worried and can't sleep
for fear of the
quantum attack, know that we will give you the
solution in another video very
soon.  In short, you can see it on
the screen.  I can go into the same
pool, open a block that is not yet validated,
browse the transactions, take
one at random and find the
public key.  And it is precisely in this
way that an attacker could
theoretically carry out a short-range
attack.  So yes, this attack is
highly dependent on the execution speed of
the quantum computer.  Depending on
the architecture, it may be more or
less realistic, but well, you get
the idea.  So this is the real
starting point of the problem.  Bitcoin is not
uniformly vulnerable, and it is
precisely on the basis of this
asymmetry that some, like Jameson Lop,
justify the idea of ​​a freeze.
However, as I mentioned in the
introduction, some approaches already exist
and there are even new ones that have
very quickly been added to
the list after Google's paper to
address quantum risks.  So
rest assured, we have solutions to
offer signatures that remain
secure even against a
quantum computer, or others that aim
to limit the exposure of
onchain public keys.  This is the case with the BIP
360, for example.  We are also seeing the emergence of
other approaches such as those
explored by Olawa or Sudokun which
would allow a
user to prove that they control a
wallet without using the
vulnerable signature mechanism thanks to
cryptographic proofs and knowledge proofs.
In other words, even if
current signatures became breakable, there
might still be a way to recover
some funds, but it might
not apply to all
address formats.  So, of course, all of this comes at a
cost.  There are compromises to be made in
terms of complexity, deployment,
signature size, and so on and so
forth.  But I really want to emphasize this
, we're not in the lurch, there are
solutions.  So there you have it, no
matter what solution might
protect your Bitcoin in the future and
prevent the creation of new
attack surfaces, current proposals do not
change anything for bitcoins already
exposed today.  That's a fact.
All corners whose public key is
already known, old format or
reused address, remain vulnerable by
definition.  In other words, the freeze does
not occur because there is no
solution.  It appears because
existing solutions do
not allow everyone to be saved.  And from the
moment certain areas seem
doomed, part of the ecosystem
is tempted to say, "Since we can't
save them, let's at least prevent them from
being recovered."  But at that point,
we are no longer solving a technical problem.
We are starting to make political choices about
which spending rights should
survive and which should be
suspended.  And that's where we touch on
something much deeper
and much less funny.  Because as
things stand, whatever we do
, there is a matter of principle involved.  Either
we agree to freeze coins and
violate the principle of non-confiscation,
or we do nothing and accept that an
actor can appropriate funds
without having initially had the keys to them.
Okay, before criticizing this idea of
freezing, because as you will have understood, it really
bothers me, we must first
properly frame the subject and look at what
arguments are put forward by this
segment of the community.  First, you should know
that the idea of ​​Freeze is absolutely nothing
new.  It was already circulating long
before Google's paper.  In February
2025, developer Peter Will, one of the
main contributors to Segwi,
said on the Bitcoin Mailing List that if
a
quantum computer were to become credible, then
yes, we would have to confiscate those
risky BTC because we would have no
other choice.  This would inspire
Jameson Lop's article a month later, "
Against the Lowing on term recovery of
Bitcoin."  Even the Human Rights Foundation
also places the subject at the center of
its report on the quantum threat and
explicitly speaks of the burn or
steal dilemma.  So no, Google didn't invent anything.
They simply
accelerated a debate that had
already begun.  And while we are
historically accustomed to debates
of a technicality that few people
master, the advantage here is that
we fall more into philosophy,
into politics than into tech.
The main argument of the freeze camp
is one of lesser evil.  The day
a machine becomes capable of breaking
a public key, part of the
Bitcoin supply becomes vulnerable.  And from that point on
, according to them, inaction is no
longer neutral.  This is no longer
simply about respecting the rules.  This is an
implicit decision to allow some
Bitcoin derivatives to be transferred to the
most technologically advanced players.
actors who, well, let's be honest
between us, will most likely be
either states, or big tech companies, or
why not a mix of both.
Moreover, Google's paper
explicitly mentions digital
salvage frameworks.  In other words, the idea that
some states could treat a
portion of dormant Bitcoin as
abandoned assets, like
shipwreck or unclaimed treasure.  In
this logic, if the Bitcoin community does not
neutralize its coins itself,
then governments could
try to legally legitimize their
recovery in the name of law,
public interest, or even
national security or whatever the current argument may be.
As an aside, this also raises
more general questions because from the
point of view of the protocol, a
transaction resulting from a
quantum attack would be valid but from the point of
view of the law, it could be
classified as theft and this could also
be valid for the freeze for that matter.
Okay, anyway, let's close this parenthesis.
So this issue of free access is also,
for these supporters, a way
to prevent external third parties from
legally redefining the ownership
of dormant areas.  The argument is that
if this coin, say
Satoshi Nakamoto's million BTC, is stolen
thanks to quantum supremacy, then the
very notion of ownership of Bitcoin
would be called into question, and with it
its monetary credibility.  In addition to that, there is
an argument for coordination.  Without
explicit constraints, migration can
remain slow and largely incomplete.
In this sense, the freeze is not
only a defensive measure, it is
also a mechanism to force the
system to converge before it is
too late.  Therefore, proponents of FRIS
believe that the protocol must
intervene because a lack
of intervention would amount to surrendering
ownership to those who
best control quantum power.  That is
absolutely true.  The problem, at least in
my opinion, is that all of this
assumes that Bitcoin would have to be saved by
making it cease to be neutral.  Because, deep down
, the Freeze supporters
are saying something along those lines.  There
are exceptional circumstances,
tatiti tatata, in which Bitcoin
must suspend some of these principles
to preserve its overall consistency.
But I think it's very similar to the
type of argument that villains
use in movies anyway.
And that's precisely where
I personally lose interest.  My opinion
on this debate is that the bitcoiners
who want a freeze in one form
or another are whiners.
And I explain why by
adopting a provocative tone in order to
push the arguments to their limit.  By
its very nature, Bitcoin is not subject to any
national or international law.  Just as
Bitcoin has no friends or enemies.  Bitcoin
is a simple monetary technology on
which humanity tends to
agree.  That's all.  From this perspective, it
seems more than necessary to
leave everything as it relates to the
forgotten bitcoins.  Bitcoin's great promise
is the total freedom offered by the
protocol.  And by its very nature, this freedom
is without anyone's permission.  Of
course, this freedom is regulated by
the laws of the states in which Bitcoin
is used.  But even so, on
the level of the protocol, the big
promise is that no one will come and
tell me to do or not to do anything
.  So if I want to
put my Bitcoin on an address whose
public key is unknown or known,
that's my problem and my responsibility,
and nobody else is responsible for the problem
.  I have the right
to forget my BTC and have it
stolen if I'm a bit of a slacker.  As they
say, the biggest danger to Bitcoin is
not quantum computing or Croocen
in the closet, but rather the bitcoiners
themselves who want to change the
protocol every other day.  We need to
stop with all these
nutty beeps.  Phil Geiger, the
business development manager at MetaPlanète,
summed it up in one line that
deserved a patent.  We have to steal
people's money to prevent others from stealing
their money.  Once you have
accepted the principle that
certain expenses can be
suspended in the name of a greater good,
ah, then you have already crossed a threshold into the
dark side for me.  That's chop.
Today, it will be the
quantumly vulnerable corners.  Tomorrow,
why not the corners of a state under
sanctions, the corners of an actor deemed
problematic, the corners of an
organization considered hostile.
Monetary history is full of this
kind of abuse.
And once again, Bitcoin was
specifically designed to escape this.
And that's why, for
many, the main danger is the
precedent that would introduce a freeze on
Bitcoin.  Ah, I can tell you if the
community did something like that, there are a
whole bunch of states and
international organizations that would be all ears
and say, "Oh, if we did it once, maybe
we could do it twice, three,
four or five times, or on demand."
Immutability cannot be partial.
It is either a principle, or it
becomes a variable for adjustment.  But
then in that case, let's ask the
following question.  What about the acquisition
of, say, 6 million Bitcoins by a
large company or a state, or even by
Gargamel himself returned to Earth?
Well, we don't care, we couldn't care less
.  Yes, this entity reportedly has
6 million Bitcoins.
OK, the unfortunate ones who lost their
BTC will have lost it forever.  And so, that's
exactly what we call
freedom, damn it.  and even more.  That is why
freedom is regulated
in states where groups of people
need to live together in a
healthy social order.  But that's not what we're talking about here
.  We are talking about a
monetary technology that must serve as
neutral ground everywhere and at all times for everyone
.  By its very nature, this space
must be a space of
technological freedom where no one can freeze someone's
Bitcoin for
whatever reason.  In any case, that's how
I see it.  Okay then
, but I understand the
frustrations because the price of Bitcoin
could be driven down for a
very long time if this player were
content to sell Bitcoin to
monetize its quantum technology.  And
so, if he doesn't want his bitcoins,
the real bitcoiners will be
happy to buy them from him little by little
and this entity will have made a good living
thanks to its quantum technology.  Where
is the problem?  Would that
prevent you from making a transaction
without permission?  Absolutely not.  Tell
those people, you're just a bunch of crybabies.
If the answer to this risk is that we must
suspend the rules to avoid a
shock, then it means that at the moment
the cost becomes too high, we
cease to believe in the neutrality of the
system.  And in this case, the problem is
no longer quantum mechanics.  The problem is
that we want Bitcoin for its
rhetoric, but not for its
consequences.  And yes, I understand
the heartbreak that a Michael Sailor
might feel if an entity
suddenly appeared with 6
million Bitcoins when he had
taken x years to acquire 800,000 or whatever
.  And so, as they say,
Bitcoin don't care.  Everyone disagrees
.  Do you understand?  He tells Sailor
every time he can support
this idea in any way, "You're a
[ __ ] crybaby."  And yes, I
understand that such a capture of
wealth by an already extremely rich company
like Google, for example, makes the world go mad,
forgetting in passing to see that this
is done by deploying marvels of
quantum technologies that we should
celebrate because they will transform the
world.  And you know what?  Well, you
're all crybabies too, and that's that.  That's why
I titled this video "
Bitcoiners are crybabies."
Fundamentally, what tickles my
nose is seeing so-called
monetary anarchists intellectually going around in circles to, let's be
clear, protect their little
turf and their little short-
and medium-term advantage.  Realize that if
6 million Bitcoins
are frozen, it's a huge loss
for everyone who owns bitcoins,
and this loss will impact
large holders much more than small holders.
So don't tell me that
the big players who want free do so
to protect the
bitcoin community from
excessive centralization.  My knee, yes, that's
pure and simple egocentrism and selfishness
.  As always, my fear is
that greed is the real key driver of
this lunar Freeze story.  There, I've said it
.  And it will make a nice, very
long YouTube short that you can
send to the head of any
papier-mâché bitcoiner who is ready to
side with the institutionalization of the
protocol.  Yes, sir, provided he makes
a small profit from it.  Three pieces of silver
for treason, isn't that right?  And
to push the provocation to the very
end.  Remember that honor cannot be
bought, even if it can be sold
once.  That said, we need to
address a counter-argument from the
freeze camp because it is the most solid or
the least fragile of them, whichever you
prefer.  It's not just that the price
will fall, it's that if a
significant portion of the supply becomes
recoverable, the founding narrative of
Bitcoin with a fixed supply of 21 million and
mutable ones would take a hit.  Basically,
we are being told that doing nothing will
kill Bitcoin's etos money.  But I
hear it, but my answer remains the same.
This narrative has value
precisely because it is
unconditional.  The day we say 21
million, unless an actor threatens the
suppla on the other hand,
it is no longer 21 million.  That's 21
million minus one asterix.  And
once this asterisk is written, it never closes
.  There, I've said it.  You know what
I'm thinking, I can calm down now
.  My office neighbors
thank you because I think I
shouted a little.
Well, you know what they
say.  When a problem seems to offer
only two solutions, there is always
someone to look for the
middle way.  An intermediate solution that
involves neither freezing corners nor
allowing an actor to instantly recover them
.  That's where
glass comes in.  Instead of completely preventing
the spending of certain Bitcoins, we will
simply limit their flow over
time.  In concrete terms, this means that
outputs considered vulnerable,
more specifically older formats
like P2PK, can only be spent at
a limited rate.  Typically, a
cap of one Bitcoin per block, which would
correspond to approximately 144 BTC per
day.  If we apply this to just the 1.7
million Bitcoins exposed via
P2PK formats, we spread their
potential mining over several decades.
So we don't confiscate, we don't block
, we slow down.  On paper, the idea
is clever; it doesn't eliminate
the attack, it transforms it.  Instead
of a potential shock, we get a
slow extraction, spread out over time
and predictable.  And where it gets really
fun is with the
economic consequences, especially for Bitcoin which
could even come out on top because
it would be the biggest ode we've
ever organized.  Basically, an
actor who manages to exploit a
vulnerability seeks to maximize extraction
as quickly as possible.  With
Hourglass, this is no longer possible.  The
return on investment is spread over
years, or even decades, but the
cost of acquiring
quantum capacity remains high.  So that
completely changes the equation.  Well, more or
less, because if we take into account
that the price of Bitcoin increases more and
more sharply over a few decades,
well, that really makes for a pretty good
savings strategy for them.  Then there is
another effect to consider, the
fee market.  With Aborglace, these
transactions do not disappear, they
become limited, therefore by definition
more competitive.  Since each block is
a constrained space, this opens the door
to competition between
regular users and those seeking to
extract its corners.  So at this point, we're starting
to feel that this idea is
a bit flawed around the edges.
Limited-time releases are
becoming rare, and therefore competitive.  And
scarcity in a limited space means
competition for fresh produce.  So, me, a
Bitcoin miner, uh, that suits me fine,
but I'm not sure it's really
ethical because we're creating a
rather cynical alignment.
Securing the network also involves
the gradual absorption of these flows.
Therefore, in addition to not targeting all
vulnerable addresses, it does not resolve
the philosophical question.  He
bypasses it, or more precisely, he
wraps it in economic engineering.
We no longer say we are freezing, we say we are
slowing down.  Alright.  But here again,
a distinction is introduced between
areas where traffic can circulate freely and
others where circulation becomes
conditional.  This introduces
a form of discrimination into
the spending rules, and that is
obviously not something that is universally accepted.  Fortunately, too
.  For some, Hourglass
normalizes theft because by
directly redistributing part of the
stolen value to the miner, there are costs involved,
the problem is not solved.
The principle of "your keys, your corners" is always violated.  And for
others, it is also an attack on the
permissionless nature of Bitcoin.
precisely because the ability to
spend according to the historical rules of the
protocol is replaced by an
artificial regulatory mechanism.  As far as I'm
concerned, yes, it's still more elegant
if you want that kind of
hair, but it doesn't
fundamentally change much because from
the moment Bitcoin starts adapting
its rules to correct an
undesirable result, it ceases to be a
neutral infrastructure.  So to all
the people who are in favor of a
glass-type approach, I want to
tell you that you are still
whiners.
And now, as I said
in the introduction, the goal here is not to
give a technical presentation but to
reflect on the philosophy behind all
this.  But I also know that everyone is
wondering if something like this really has
a chance of succeeding.  First of all,
a BP is not a law and this is
even more true here because BIP 361
is currently in draft form and of an
informational type.  In other words, it
can change all the time.  But beyond
that, the fact that a proposal is
published, numbered and discussed does
not mean at all that it will be
adopted.  On Bitcoin, a PIP can
exist, be debated for months or
years, and then never be activated.
And even without that,
a credible post-quantum proposal must first
exist upstream since BIP 361
itself depends on a future BP that would
introduce post-
quantum signatures.  Next, there need to be
implementations, reviews, tests,
debates, and then an
activation mechanism.  And most importantly, it requires
something much harder
to achieve in Bitcoin:
sufficient social consensus.  And let me tell you,
given the stakes, well, it's anything but a
consensus, you only have to see how
I react.  So
personally, all of this seems quite
unlikely to me, at least as things stand.  In my
opinion, the political cost of such a
change is simply too
high.  Even James Lop,
co-author of the BP in question,
readily admits that he did not like the idea and that
he hopes never to have to
consider it for a real adoption.
Basically, he's doing this for lack of a better option.  Then
afterwards, there are a whole bunch of questions
about the consequences of all this, between
soft fork, hard fork, but I'm not going to
venture into that because otherwise we'll be here all
day and above all we'll be getting
into considerations that are not
relevant.  So we'll talk about it again, or not, when
the time comes, if the opportunity arises.  As you will
have understood, in my opinion, the best
thing to do is probably to
do nothing or more precisely to give
developers time to do what they
know how to do, improve, propose
standards and above all make
migration to
quantum-resistant formats as easy as possible.  And at the
same time, accept that yes, it is
possible that one day a state, a big
tech company or whoever you want will appropriate a
portion of the dormant bitcoins.  Yes, it
could create a shock in the market,
but to that, I want to answer
exactly the same thing as to those who are
worried about seeing BlackRock, Binance
or Strategy accumulating too much Bitcoin.   So what
, who cares?  No.  Again
, does this prevent you from
making a transaction?  No.  Does this
prevent you from using the network?
Absolutely not.  I pushed the envelope to its
extreme in this video because the
neutrality of the protocol is non-negotiable for me
.  Yes, more than ever
, I understand that these questions are
worrying, troubling, and disturbing.
But deep down, beyond these debates,
beyond my lyrical flights of fancy, there is
only one thing that
really matters.  No one can stop you
from transferring value without
authorization.  And that's perfectly fine
.  If you want to understand why
Bitcoin neutrality is so
important, go watch this video where I
explain why owning Bitcoin
is like owning the world.
