Sophie is deaf, like 6% of the
world's population. Most often,
this deafness is linked to
genetic factors. Today,
more than 120 genes have been identified that are responsible
for hereditary hearing loss and
unfortunately, there is no
biological treatment to combat this
genetic deafness. Finally, that was
before a team from MIT succeeded in
returning Louis to Sophie by
simultaneously targeting two genes responsible for
his hearing loss. For this, they
used a technology discovered in
2012, Crisper C9. A
gene-editing technology that is changing the game
in all areas of biology.
Oh, and I didn't tell you, but Sophie,
uh, she's a mouse. We are not
yet at the stage of genetically editing
humans. Although in this video, we will
discover step by step a
scientific revolution through the story of the one who
originated it. Today, I'm going to
tell you how a French woman,
Emmanuel Charpentier, shook up the
world of life sciences with
Chrisper Cassnein.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded
today to two women. American
Jennifer Doutna and Frenchwoman Emmanuel
Charptier.
Two women who become the 6th and
7th to win a Nobel Prize from Chile,
including a Frenchwoman, 109 years after Marie
Curie. It
all started in Japan in the
80s. Well, actually, like all
recent scientific discoveries, it
goes back much further. We
could take as the starting point
of our story an article published in
Nature in 1953 in which James Watson
and Francis Crick demonstrate the
double-list structure of DNA, or we could
go back even further and start from
the very discovery of DNA by the
Swiss Frederich in 1869. But that
video would be hours and hours long.
Especially since Crisper's story is
a story that moves fast, very, very
fast. In just a few years, there are a lot of
stories to tell. In fact,
humans have been practicing genetic engineering for thousands of years
. In agriculture,
for example, when we select the
most advantageous shoots, whether
because they are more resistant or
have more flesh, we have
genetically hardened certain species to our
advantage. Finally, by discovering
DNA, the carrier of
genetic information, the instruction manual, we understood what we were doing
and from there, everything
accelerated. In 1974, the
first genetically modified animal was created:
a transgenic mouse. In 1982,
insulin produced by
genetically modified bacteria went on sale. In
1987, a virus-resistant tomato was created
. In 1996, Doli was born
, the first mammal cloned from
an adult cell. Then there were
cows, horses, and
today, in 50 cases, you can have
your dog cloned in the United States. In
2000, the artist Édouard Cac had a strange
idea. He inserts the gene that produces
a green fluorescent protein from a
jellyfish into Alba, his rabbit. The result,
presto, a fluorescent rabbit. I'll stop there in
2000 because otherwise I risk
spoiling our story for you. And the
main character in our story is her,
Emmanuel Charpentier. Well, this photo
is from the day he received his
Nobel Prize. Oh dear, spoilers, we're not
there yet. A few years after
the strange discovery in the
Japanese laboratory, Emmanuel has just obtained a
doctorate in microbiology from
Pierre and Marie Curie University. From her
master's internship onwards, she was drawn to the idea of ​​a
project that she could lead herself.
So, if she turned to
biology, it's because she always had
many questions about us,
humans. She turned to the
life sciences to understand the
world, to understand herself. After completing
her doctorate in Paris, she went to New
York to do postgraduate studies. She
worked on bacterial genetics
and her work would be the beginning of
what would lead her to the highest
scientific distinction. But
again, I'm going too fast. So,
let's get back to our Japanese lab. It's
1987 in Osaka and a group led by
this guy, Yoshizumi, Ishino, are
looking at the torn genome each under a magnifying
glass. In terms of bacteria, it's the star
of the labs. It is simple, easy to
grow and it grows
quickly. And so, by analyzing the DNA of the
bacteria, they identify sequences
that repeat. More specifically, they
discover palindromic sequences.
The word kayak, for example, is a
palindrome. Well, here it's the same
thing but with the nucleotides of
DNA. Well, they're thinking, "OK, it's kind of
funny, but we don't really know what
it's for." We'll call it
simply clustered regularly
interspindromic
repats or crisper because it's
simpler. It would take until the
21st century and the perseverance of a
Spanish researcher to understand the
function of these palindromic sequences.
I say perseverance because Morik
has Galéros to publish his results. He
received five successive rejections. The topic is
not fashionable. Yet what
Francesco found was absolutely
essential. In fact, he realizes
that these structures are part
of a defense system of bacteria
against viruses. What is
interesting is not these
palindromic sequences themselves, but rather
what lies between these two
palindromic sequences of
viral DNA in the bacterial genome.
Thanks to these small pieces of
viral information, cells remember
the viruses they have been
exposed to in order to better fight them. a
bit like a genetic vaccine. It's a bit
like if, after leading a
victory against a virus, she
takes a piece of ADANN's sound and
keeps it as a trophy to remind herself what
her enemy looked like. And what's
crazy is that this information was
passed on to the offspring of the
cell. So the cells are
protected against viruses over several
generations and even with this
publication, Chrisper remains a
niche topic within the
scientific community. But some researchers are taking an
interest in it here and there, and that is the
case of our national Emmanuel. She can be
found in Vienna, Austria, leading
a small team that studies
small bacterial ARs. We talked about the N quite a bit in relation to
Covid vaccination.
The N is a molecule that also carries
genetic information like DNA, with
one difference: a different nucleic base
. But there's no need to go into
details. AR RN in the
cell nucleus. It's a copy of the DNA, a
transcription. Therefore, the RNA molecule
carries the same genetic information as
the transcribed DNA molecule. It's a
fragile photocopy of our information.
Fragile because the lifespan of
this molecule is only a few
days at most. But then what is the point
of making a copy of
genetic information?
There are several types of RNA for
several functions, but the one that
interests us here is messenger RNA. In
fact, the messenger will have the role of a
messenger. It will exit the nucleus to
deliver the message and serve as blueprints
for protein production.
Step by step, Emmanuel's team
demonstrates that the crisper system of the
bacterium they are studying consists
of a CASnin protein and a nucleus
capable of cutting DNA and two RNAs.
She realizes that when a
cell is infected by a virus, the
CRISPR RNA can guide the C9in protein
to the virus's DNA that is
infecting it in order to destroy it.
Although basic science is
hard work, experiments fail
on a regular basis and it
often takes years before
results are finally visible.
When she was in New York, it had
taken her years to successfully
genetically modify a cell, and now, before
her very eyes, the cell was doing the job with
disconcerting ease. She
worked for years on the system and
published her research from the UMEA microbiology center
in Sweden in the
journal Nature in 2011. And that's
absolutely brilliant.
In 2011, Emmanuel was an
accomplished researcher. She has already published around
thirty articles, including two in
major journals, one in Science and one
in Nature, which we just mentioned.
Well, even if it's not as a full-fledged author
, it's incredibly cool to be
published by these magazines. OK, let's take
a look at his papers, the last
author is the one we call
the senior author. In fact, it is often the one
who supervised the
research project. Generally, it's the one who
comes up with the idea. He's basically the boss.
Signed as a senior author, that's
classy, ​​especially since it was published in
highly renowned international journals
. So generally, the first one
is the young guy who put all his
energy into it, who did sleepless nights
to do all the results, all the
graphs and so on. The last one is often
his teacher, the one who supervised,
who gave the idea. And then 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
5th, that's all the colleagues in
descending order of their contribution. In short,
Emmanuel P, like many
scientists, is working in her corner
trying to understand Chrisper, to
decipher his mechanisms, but she's
struggling. She is reaching a phase in
her project where she needs
external expertise, someone who is knowledgeable
in
structural biology. And for that, she thinks of
an American scientist she
met a little earlier at
a microbiology conference in Puerto
Rico, a certain Jennifer Douin.
She said, you know, been wanting to
talk to you. GL to meet you in person
because thinking you might collaborate
with my lab on on a project.
We were speaking the same language in
principle and we had the same way of
approaching science
very nice moment.
Jennifer is a prodigy, a
genius researcher. At 30, she is
already a professor at Diel University. To
give you an idea, Jennifer has
published over 300 papers in
top journals and often as an
SEO author. In short, it's the elite of
American research.
She's been interested in the
Crisper system for a while now, but I remind you, at the time, basically nobody cared about
that thing and Emmanuel
asks her if she's interested in deciphering
the structure of the Crisper C9 protein.
Of course, she agrees and it goes
well. The collaboration is going well. After
each having experienced a lot of things on their own
, a lot of failures, a
lot of frustration at not finding
exactly what they were looking for, the
two researchers now complement each other well and
everything accelerates. By delving into the
mechanics of life, the mechanics of
contraction, they demonstrate that
this simple, robust and easily
programmable system could
specifically cleave a certain part of
the DNA. Basically, you can program
the Crisper Swimmer and it allows you to
make a cut at a very
specific place in the double brown wire. In fact, what
they are developing
is DNA scissors. So, of
course, very quickly, this led to a
publication in Science in August 2012.
A real bombshell. The two
researchers had just made a
historic discovery, a
revolutionary genome editing tool. It is
sufficient to produce an RNA whose
sequence is complementary to the one being
targeted. And in reality, it's not
complicated, it's not expensive, any
lab can access it. And with
that, we can edit the genome very quickly
and at a lower cost. In fact, what we have just
done is
put genetic scissors in the hands of all
biologists in the world
. Scissors that can
cut DNA pretty much anywhere you want. Of
course, the news had a
bombshell effect and spread like
wildfire through the labs.
Crisper Cast9 made
genomic editing super accessible and a huge number of others
have of course followed suit. However
, be aware that there have already been
genome editing techniques, and there have
even been Nobel Prizes awarded
for them. We've been making
transgenic mice for half a century. But
if we already know about
genome editing, how is this a
real revolution? In fact, before
Chrisper, modifying a genome could
take years. Crisper
makes fish fluorescent in days. And
since the publication of the
Chercheuse duo, new applications
have been published almost daily.
New publications and with them each day
a flow of hope. And when I
think of the hope inspired by Christ9ine,
I think very directly of the
medical field, of genetic scissors against
genetic diseases. Let's take
the example of sickle cell disease, one of the
most widespread genetic diseases
in the world. It's a hereditary disease
that causes red blood cells, which
usually look like this, to take on
a crescent shape and a whole
host of not-so-great symptoms
that can even lead to
death. So, a clinical trial was
launched on 17 patients with a
gene therapy based on Christ9ine. And among
these 17 patients, 16 have not had any
episodes of pain for at least a
year. At the beginning of the year, the
European Commission approved the first
gene therapy, Crisper Cneine. It's a
dream come true, especially since on paper, all
diseases caused by a
dysfunctional gene could be treated
thanks to Crisper. Research is generating a
lot of hope in the fight against cancer, for
which clinical trials are also
underway. The idea here is to use
Castine to
genetically modify the cells of our
immune system so that it starts
attacking cancer cells.
In addition to treating
genetic diseases and targeting cancers,
Crisper also enables
basic research to be conducted to understand
cancers.
Specific mutations can be recreated in
healthy cells, or genetic sifting can be performed
by inactivating each gene in the
genome one by one to find the
Achilles' heels of cancer cells. So
here we are talking about genetically modifying
humans, but the applications of
Crisper go far beyond
treatments for Homo sapiens.
Work is underway to modify
animals and produce organs that would
be more compatible for
transplants in humans. For example,
there have been trials with
pig hearts. Okay, fine. Another example is
malaria, which causes 600,000 deaths per year. Of the
3000 known species of mosquitoes,
only 10 can transmit
malaria. Malaria is caused by a
parasite, Plasmodium, which is transmitted
by mosquitoes. And in fact, by
genetically modifying the mosquito, by
increasing the pH of its stomach, we can
prevent the parasite from living there and in this way
, we could imagine eradicating
malaria and saving hundreds of thousands
of lives each year. And the thing is,
modifying mosquitoes means
modifying an entire environment. For
example, mosquitoes play a role
as pollinators, so this could
potentially have an impact
on plants and wildlife as well. And
ultimately, every time we use
Crisper C9, it raises major
ethical questions. As
I told you, everything happened
very quickly, perhaps too quickly. In
any case, that's what
many scientists thought when they saw all
the biologists starting to cut up the
genome everywhere. The use of
Crisper raises the famous question: "How far
can we go? How far should we go
?" But if we're talking about
hereditary diseases, modifying an embryo to
eliminate the gene responsible for an
incurable disease, well, on paper, it
seems pretty cool. The thing is that from the
moment we start making
hereditary modifications, we are talking about
modifications that will be
passed on to all
future generations of the people who have undergone these
modifications. In fact, we are reshaping
the human species. So, when it comes
to eradicating diseases,
why not, after all? But what is the limit
? We could also modify the size,
power, and strength of the EOS devices to
minimize the risk of fracture. And what exactly is
a good gene, anyway? Little by
little, we could tip
into a society where the richest
could afford to have custom-made babies
with physical and
intellectual capabilities superior to those of the
working classes.
Genetically exacerbating inequalities between
social classes, we agree, but this
is straight out of a
science fiction movie. So perhaps that's ultimately where
the line lies between being
rigid and not touching the
human genome.
So, let me introduce you to Lulu and Nana,
Chinese twins whose genome has been
modified to make them resistant to
HIV.
Shocking announcement from the Chinese biologist. Jean
cuit caused an uproar in the
scientific community. It would be good
not to forget that this case, if
confirmed, primarily concerns
two little girls, the twins Lulu
and Nana, who will undoubtedly enter, much against their will,
into the history of
science as the first human at the
GN.
In addition to sweeping aside all the norms,
Jean Coui, the Chinese researcher
behind this
genomic modification, did a
completely irresponsible job
scientifically because of his lack
of rigor. So yeah, that's causing an uproar
. Jennifer Doudna says she is
horrified. 120 scientists express
their outrage in an
open letter. A moratorium on
human DNA engineering has been called for by the
research community. A few months
later, a group of
internationally renowned scientists published a
letter again in the journal Nature
calling for a global pause in
the use of Chrisper
Castin technology on all
human germline cells. Germinal
means that these are the cells that
will be passed on to
subsequent generations. Their main
concern is that
gene editing at this level could lead to
hereditary changes with
potentially
unpredictable and irreversible consequences for
future generations. This letter
highlights a crucial problem.
Technology is evolving too rapidly
compared to the implementation of ethical standards and
regulations. Especially since, at
the moment, we don't really have the
perspective on the long-term effects. For
example, the clinical trial that began in 2023
on sickle cell disease is scheduled to last
15 years. So we don't know the
stability of the modification over the
long term and over future
generations. In 2020, Emmanuel
Charpentier and Jennifer Duna received
the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the
discovery of the Crisper Cast9 system.
This is the first time a Nobel Prize in
science has been awarded to an all-
female team. The
scientific revolution they developed has
already won around forty
scientific prizes. They are the
inventors of a simple and quick tool
for modifying human genes. What they
called a DNA-cutting scissor
capable of creating or correcting
a genetic mutation and curing
rare diseases.
What I find fascinating about
the story of Christ is the speed
with which it had an impact on
humanity. In fact, this invention, well,
it changed the world. It took about ten
years to turn the
world of biology upside down. In an interview
given after receiving his Nobel Prize,
Emmanuel Charpentier sheds light on
what is not seen, those who
take hold of this basic science and
give it a practical interest. Those who
care, who repair, who
discover and who respond. One thing
is for sure, we are only at the beginning of
Christ9ine's story. What happens next, well,
nobody can predict. It is up to us to be
creative, bold, and above all, informed and
vigilant. But this sequel promises
to be exciting. And I believe we must realize
the privilege we have of being
born after giants
who changed the world and
brought science and
technology that mean we are on the verge
of curing many diseases
that have caused so much suffering in the
past. If you enjoyed the video, I
invite you to subscribe and watch our
other episodes in the Giants series.
And if you really liked it, the best thing to do is
share it.
