Check. Hi everybody. Hello. How's it
going? Good. Everybody here? All right.
Thank you for coming. Uh I want to say I
think this is going to be the most
existential panel of of of all of Milk
in this year. Everybody here is most
likely here because you either want to
live on this earth longer or you want to
uh share more time with your family here
on this earth. And so we're going to be
diving into that. I I I got to say
before we even start, I was at my
brother's wedding this weekend and uh
thank you so much. My father is I think
69 going into his 70s and I have two
kids. One of them is three, one of them
is one and they're both about 35. One's
28 lbs. The other one's like definitely
35 lbs. And I remember watching my dad
and he was dancing the night away. And
then he was just taking my kids and
throwing them up in the air. And I I had
this thought. I said like, "Okay, well,
when Rio is is my age, I want to be a f
a grandfather, just like my my dad's uh,
you know, dancing with my kids and
throwing them up." And then I did some
quick math. And if Rio, my son, waits as
long as I waited to have kids, I will be
84 years old trying to throw children up
in the air with reckless abandon. Uh so
it's not just about longevity, it's
about how to stay healthy and and
increase that health span. And so
hopefully uh this panel, you all help me
in my 80s be able to throw children
around uh very recklessly at weddings.
And so I just want to introduce this
panel. This panel is incredible. Uh
we've got uh Dan Butner. He is a
National Geographic fellow. He's an
explorer. You might recognize him um
from so many things. He's written
Secrets uh of the Blue Zones, which is
probably something that's required
reading for anybody that's uh that's
come here. Um and he is the host of Live
to 100. Uh so welcome. Thanks so much
for being with us. Uh Laura Dimming,
founder, uh partner of the Longevity
Fund and the CEO of Cradle. And I can't
wait to get into the work that you're
doing at Cradle. It is like Star Wars,
Han Solo getting frozen.
It's so futuristic. We're going to be
diving into that. Then we've got Dr.
Richard Isacson. He is the director of
the Atria Precision Prevention Program.
Uh founder of the first real Alzheimer
prevention program in the United States.
Incredible work that you're doing. Uh
Dr. Eric Verden. He's the president and
CEO of the Buck Institute uh for
research and aging pioneering biomedical
research a institute dedicated to all
things aging and age related to disease.
And then we've got uh Dr. Vonda Wright.
She is a pioneering orthopedic sports
surgeon researcher. She is the author of
Unbreakable and she is an adviser to so
many of the world's most elite athletes.
So this is a a very fascinating panel.
We've got an hour with all of you. It's
going to go in a split second. Uh, but
first before we get started, for all of
us here that want to live as long as we
possibly can, and I hate to, you know,
use the word hack, but when it comes to
stretching our life out as much as
possible given everything that you've
seen in science, everything that you've
seen in the people that you've met, give
us uh give us the one thing that you do
to make your life on this earth a little
bit longer. Well, since you're talking
about kids, I'll tell you one thing. In
Sardinia produces the the highest
concentration of centinarians in the
world and 300 uh surveys of people who
made it to 100. The third biggest
predictor of making it to 100 in
Sardinia uh was having daughters.
The guys most likely to make it to 100
had five or more daughters.
Five or more.
Yes. And we don't know if you know
daughters uh um you know take better
care of their fathers or if it's because
if he can survive five adolescent girls
make it to 100 it's no problem but but
there's a longevity but more to the
point I think of what we can do you know
um if you want to live to 100 um you you
um you have to know if you if you want
to eat 200 you have to know what uh uh
people ate as young children and
middle-aged and newly retired. So, we
actually did a a uh um a metaanalysis of
of uh all five blue zones where people
are living the longest. 155 dietary
studies done over the last uh um 80
years. And when you average it out, uh
people are make to 100 are eating about
a 90% whole food plant-based diet. They
do eat meat, but only about 20 pounds a
year compared to the 220 pounds that the
average American eats. It's mostly whole
grains, greens, garden vegetables,
tubers like sweet potatoes, nuts, and
beans. And if you're eating a uh a cup
of beans a day, it's worth about four
extra years of life expectancy.
Uh but the key is how do you actually
eat like that? And I'll tell you one way
not not to eat like that is to go out to
eat. When we go out to eat, we eat about
300 extra calories every day. And those
calories tend to tend to be laden with
sodium and and ultrarocessed foods and
and and uh and uh saturated fat. The key
really is this
eating at home with your five daughters
with your five daughters. Ideally,
they're cooking for no. And uh the
number one reason people don't cook at
home is because they perceive they don't
have enough time. And um uh actually if
you are if you are eating a whole food
plant-based diet and you're 50 years
old, it's worth about six extra years of
life expectancy. And if you average
those six years back into sort of a
daily average, it's worth about four
extra hours a day. So we we uh we we all
have plenty of time uh to really cook at
home. But the but the easiest way to do
it is to get a Instapot. I have nothing
to do with the company Instapot, but all
of the diets of longevity are peasant
food. They tend to be cooked in one pot.
And uh if you have an Instant Pot, it's
easy to chop up the food in the morning,
put it in, hit the button, and at night,
you have a a meal formulated for
longevity. Uh you can make it maniacally
delicious, and it's worth six extra
years. So that's my hack.
Fascinating.
And Laura, how about you?
Yeah, so I work in the field of
longevity science, and it's um really
exciting. Like there's so many different
ways you can take uh different organisms
like a mouse and change their genetics
and make them live longer. So like 10%
longer or like even more. Um but a thing
that's been the most exciting in the
field is the upcoming um market uh
availability uh probably in the next
year or so of uh a drug for dogs to make
them live longer. So you might have
heard of this company Loyal for dogs. Um
the drug's not approved finally yet, but
it's likely that in the next year we'll
have the first ever approved drug where
the label on the bottle actually says
for lifespan extension. Um and so soon
your dogs will be able to actually take
a medical um drug that that does that
and that's so exciting for the field.
We've never had that before, that kind
of recognition um that that that might
be upcoming soon in the next year.
Again, not approved yet, but um the the
drug is is kind of nearing that stage um
of development. And so that that's been
really exciting and and the possibility
of translating that kind of medical
label of lifespan extension FDA um
considering that to humans is one of the
things that I'm the most excited about
for the next uh decade. Yeah, but but
what do you do to make your life longer?
Well, that's the thing. I work in
approved therapeutics. Um that's all I
can speak to. And for me personally,
it's actually just increasing present
moment awareness through meditation that
probably increases
meditation.
Yeah. I think I think if you perceive
time more slowly then effectively you
might be said to have more time. That's
the only thing I can speak to medically,
you know, personally.
Wow. And doctor,
so if you're looking for a hat so that
you can live forever, I also got a
bridge to sell you.
Um, so the word hack, uh, is something
that kind of rubs me, you know, grinds
my gears a little bit because it's, you
know, I think if we're trying to think
about longevity and the three legs of
the stool that I think about are
longevity, how long you live, uh, health
span, which is like the quality of life
you have based on your medical
conditions, and then brain span, which
is the quality of life you have based on
your cognitive health, the
meaningfulness that you have as we age.
Um, if you're looking for one hack to
solve all of that, it ain't going to
happen. Um, so to me, um, it's I'm gonna
give you my hack, which is knowing your
numbers. Um, I'm a little maniacal, so I
wouldn't maybe recommend this, but
whether it's one wearable here, one
wearable here, getting blood draws every
3 to 6 months at a minimum. Um, everyone
needs to know your numbers. What is your
blood pressure,
easy, right? You can go to a pharmacy.
What is your blood sugar? Your fasting
blood sugar. Continuous glucose monitors
or CGMs are now available over the
counter. Um, what is your cholesterol?
What is your APO? APOB. You ever heard
of it? learn about it. It's a $7 blood
test. Um, what is your fasting blood
sugar, fasting
insulin levels? What is your These are
the types of What is your nutrition
markers? Are you eating enough fish?
Well, check your blood for omega-3 fatty
acids. What are your genetics? What are
some lowhanging fruit that you can do to
know about your genes so you can win the
tug-of-war against your genes, change
your behaviors, and make your genes work
better for you? You asked for one hack,
but to me, it's knowledge. And knowledge
is power. I think the other thing, you
know, as the brain guy, I should uh not
forget about the emerging field of
blood-based biomarkers for Alzheimer's
disease. What we're working on is,
you've heard about the cholesterol test
where people in their 20s, 30s, 40s,
50s, 60s, 70s, 80s, and beyond can go to
their doctor and get a cholesterol test.
HDL, LDL, triglycerides. You heard those
terms? Well, the cholesterol test for
the brain is coming soon, and we're
working on it. And I think I see the the
patterns. We're in the black and white
television phase. We're not color yet
and we're not in the high def 4K, 8K,
whatever it is, but the cholesterol test
for the brain is coming. Um, promise not
to overpromise. There are blood tests
out there now that are kind of cool, but
not yet amazingly amazing. Uh, but
something is coming and knowing your
numbers in terms of the brain markers is
going to be something the most one of
the most powerful things that all of us
can do uh to live better as we age.
And Dr. diver. I I know hack is uh is
something that journalists use uh and
and and all for the scientists that are
here on the stage. There's going to be
an adversarial relationship between the
journalist who's just like tell me how
to live longer and you guys being like
no no there's science here and yet we're
kind of living in this age where you've
got hype and you've got science that has
been uh you know doing the hard work for
decades and decades and decades. So I I
am going to stick you to it. Uh doctor,
give us a one your your one or two
strategies that you're using to to live
longer.
Before I do this, um I I'd like to go
back to the assumption that actually
underlied your question, which is that
is there something that you can actually
do about your aging. And um it turns out
that from many people have a very sort
of fatalistic view of of their own
aging. But the science actually tells us
that most of your aging, the way you're
going to be aging, how old you're going
to be living, whether you're going to be
sick is depending on your lifestyle. As
a matter of fact, it's about 93% of your
health span and lifespan are determined
by lifestyle factors. And I think when I
first saw that data, I thought this was
incredibly empowering because it means
it is on you. Unless you know you have a
a firstdegree relative who is a
centinarian uh for most of us it's going
to be determined by the choices that you
make every day. Now when I think in
terms of hack um there are five
variables that are determining lifespan
and and you all know them because this
is what our mothers and grandmothers
told us. This is nutrition, it's sleep,
it's physical activity, uh it's stress
mitigation and it is human connection
which by the way is the most important
and is the least studied. Um now so when
I think about these in terms of what my
hack is to really I think about each of
these as a bank account in which I'm
investing and every day I try to do
something that addresses each of these
issues. either some form of exercise,
either one really healthy meal, you
know, trying to sleep, go to bed on
time. So, there's um there's a lot that
you can do. The beauty is each of these
bank accounts are stackable. That is,
you know, I hear from a lot of people,
well, I'm exercising a lot, therefore I
can eat anything I want. That's not
true. So, if you eat well, it will stack
on top of sleeping well and it will
stack on top of moving enough. So again,
you know, if the key question is what
are you supposed to do for each of these
bank accounts uh these um how do you
optimize each of these um these
lifestyle factors? And this is one area
where the field is actually moving very
aggressively because we now have
biomarkers of aging that allow us to
determine which lifestyle intervention
actually are most efficient. If if you
hear me saying physical activity, what
does it mean? Does it mean jogging? Does
it mean lifting weight? doesn't mean
balancing yoga. And so right now we're
in the process of studying all of these
in lifestyle intervention and trying to
determine what is the best combination
not only for nutrition but also for
physical activity stress mitigation
human connection.
And yet sorry to to push you a little
bit more but for all of you who have not
been able to shake his hand yet on the
stage here he's got the most firm
handshake. So I got to put you on the
spot. What are you doing?
Let's put the longevity aside. What are
you doing to keep healthy?
Uh that's interesting. I'm I'm actually
happy to hear that because grip strength
is one of the strongest predictor of
life expectancy. Um I I do a I do an
hour of physical activity every day and
and it's it for me it's part of
lifestyle. It's it's a religion and I it
just makes me feel you know I'm 68 years
old. I feel better today than I've had
have my whole entire your story
resonated with me because I just became
aggressive.
And and your handshake resonated with
me. I was like I could with these hands
I could throw anybody up, you know,
and catch them.
And catch them. Yeah.
And and Dr. Von, what do you what do you
do to stay young?
Well, you know, my lens is coming to you
as a practicing orthopedic surgeon,
right? So in the muscularkeeletal lens
and although uh muscle is everywhere and
I actually we were talking I come from a
a satellite cell muscle stem cell lab
what I think people do not remember and
I'm going to get really granular the
thing I want you to do is uh to remember
your bone health because if you are one
and two women it's either me or you who
is going to break a bone in your
lifespan or you're one of the two
million men in this country that is one
of the quickest ways to draw a complete
halt to your longevity. So, as an
orthopedic surgeon and longevity person,
my role is to increase your bio-
resilience, right? Not necessarily add
years, but the resiliency down to a
cellular level. And the way I want you
to remember to do that is with your
bones. And bone health starts with our
children because we re reach peak bone
mass at 30. And I find many 22-year-old
people in my office because I measure
everybody's bone density who come to me
with very bad bones. And that has to do
with the way that we're building bone.
Right? So if you want the one thing at
your age, my age, we teach our children
to bash their bones. They need to be out
there jumping. They need to be eating.
We got to get the thing out of their
hands where they're sitting around. And
for us, if you do not already have a
skipping, jumping, hopping, pounding
practice in your one hour a day, please
do that because bones respond by Wolf's
law and they love to be bashed. Wow.
Wow. What a spectrum of advice. Thank
you guys so much. This is amazing. I
love about bashing these kids. As soon
as I get home, I'm like, "Sorry, kids. I
learned a lot today. Let's do some
bashing.
Uh now now Laura I I I do want to start
with you um when it comes to what we're
looking at over the next 10 to 15 years
in terms of cutting research. I know
you've been investing in in some of the
the most cutting edge uh tech startups
in this particular space and then Cradle
is just mindblowing what you guys are
working on. U so as we try to figure out
what is signal and what is noise, what
are the things that you look for? what
are the things that we can just kind of
put a pause on for maybe decades later
and what are the things that are right
now on our horizon?
Yeah, so it's a really extraordinary
time in the field. Um for context, I've
been working in longevity lab since I
was 12 years old um actually and started
my first fund when I was um think 17 or
18. So it's like my whole life at like
20 years has been like in this field
like just really really wanting these
you know drugs to be available and for
the science to go forward.
Wait, sorry. at 12 years old. Yeah. We
all were like, "What? Hold on. Let's do
some math here." Uh what what inspired
you to start thinking about longevity at
12?
Yeah. Well, when I was a kid, it was
like this is just the worst. This is the
biggest disease. It's like if you put,
you know, it's like what's the thing
that we all want? We all want to just
like have as many moments of healthy
awesome life as possible. So, that was
just like the label of the thing that I
wanted to to solve for. Um but yeah, so
I mean the thing that's been incredible
is just the the shift and there's like
multiple stages. So from about um I'd
say 2011 to maybe 2018 2019 or so it was
just like grind. Like I'd walk into a
room to talk about investing in
longevity. It's like what's longevity?
It's crazy to work on aging. The thing
that's frustrating is in the field of
longevity there's just all these studies
like study after study where you can
take mice just genetically manipulate
them in very simple ways and have them
live longer. And we just know that
lifespan is a malleable parameter.
Again, the thing that I would watch out
for is if anyone's telling you like an
extra 50 years, an extra hundred years
today, total [ __ ] Like there's
nothing that will increase your lifespan
by that much today. And like longevity
is something that we can affect
deterministically, just not very much
right now. Now, the thing that's
exciting for the next decade and it's
just so fulfilling of, you know, being
in the field since you're a kid and just
like seeing it like grow is that we're
actually starting to take the science
that, you know, so many people like Eric
and others have have pioneered and
translating into a drugs that the FDA is
looking at where the FDA is actually
seriously thinking about what does it
mean to approve a drug for a longevity
indication. And again, um, first
starting with the CVM division, I'm
thinking about the notics of dogs, but
just like there's all this momentum of
of trying to figure out how we define
longevity biomarkers and clinical trials
that are measurable. And so we'll
plausibly have drugs on market, you
know, for people in the coming decades
that can increase that parameter. Again,
if anyone's telling you 100 years,
currently not at all in the realm of
feasibility, but deterministically where
a drug actually increases that
parameter. Now the thing that's the
craziest in the field and just such a
weird time to now shift into is that
everything is now changing like by
default without any external stuff we
kind of thought all right the next
couple decades are about the first
approved longevity drugs once those get
on market for just some amount of
increase you know you have like 50 plus
years to get like larger increases but
with all the just technical advances
that are happening timelines are super
insane for how fast things might
accelerate and like honestly no one in
the field has any [ __ ] idea like what
Sorry, sorry. Any sorry um but just like
it's really like this crazy like time
where we we can't tell you like what the
timelines are for longer increases. We
we don't know that they're
deterministically going to happen soon,
but it's very uncertain. Um the thing
though that I'm the most excited about
personally is um cryopreservation. So
it's a kind of totally different angle
to the problem that took me a decade to
fully understand. Um but there's this
idea if you've ever seen interstellar of
medical hibernation. Like if you get in
a spaceship, again, a totally different
lens, but just one that I'm so excited
about right now. Um, and let's say in
the movie Interstellar, you want to go
to like the farthest regions of space,
right? You you go in a hibernation
capsule. And it's fascinating that, you
know, it's like I and so many people
that I um, you know, love know people
who uh were within years or months of
missing a life-saving drug that could
have prevented their cancer from
metastasizing or that could have given
them years of remission or even like a
chance of full survival. Um and um if we
just could pause biological time for
people who had terminal illness like
that would actually just bridge the gap
to future technologies.
Just just to clarify so let's recently
uh someone lost someone to to dementia
or they died when they had dementia in
my family. Are you saying that, you
know, if if somebody has dementia down
the road with obviously all the
approvals and they can basically pause,
freeze themselves, and then just wait
until you all figure it out and then be
reanimated.
Yeah. So, I'll try to quickly compress
the full explanation caveats to make
room for the other panelists because I
don't want to promise you much, but and
dementia is probably the hardest
disease, probably the last disease that
you'd apply this for. Imagine you're
like a patient with stage 4, let's say
like pancreatic cancer and you don't
really have any other options and you
know that there might be therapy coming
in the coming decades but there's no
other way. The idea of medical
hibernation is really one where it's
like how can we help those patients who
have no other options. To be clear, this
is nowhere near scientifically
completely validated. There are many
questions that can completely take this
and the reality is in cryobiology many
scientists are working towards
cryperving whole human organs you know
in the very near term to help transplant
patients. And so this question of like
can we scale that to a whole human and
so that's what I'm working on right now
and I just find it so exciting to find a
problem that's so beautifully it's like
again much technical speculation and
scientific risk to be derised but you
know if you know we we with IVF or egg
sort embryo freezing we freeze human
embryos fully for decades and then
rewarm them decades later and you know
there's this question can we scale that
to a whole human that's what I'm excited
about
look I would I would the journalist in
me wants to ask you about timelines but
I believe your quote was no [ __ ] idea
right something along those lines so for
this technology I bit more optimistic
for you
but but but in in terms of in terms of
how much is changing and in terms of how
much uncertainty there is with with the
timelines Dr. I I do want to ask you
the understanding of biology and aging
and calamirs and all that has that
changed or or are we still on a pretty
solid foundation here?
It changed. Uh some some of you might
wonder why the hype these days about
longevity? It seems that I cannot open a
magazine without seeing an article. The
clinics are opening everywhere. So what
we're seeing is the is the normal cycle
where there was a revolution in our
understanding of the aging process uh
back in the mid 90s uh 1995. Cynthia
Kenyon actually was one of the pioneers
of this and when Laura mentions that she
started research at age 12 she chose the
right lab because she was in Cynthia's
lab um and and others Tom Johnson Gary
Rifken so there were a whole group of uh
amazing discoveries and I think what
these discoveries were was that you
could make a single point mutation in an
organism change one letter in the
genetic code. So little worm has a three
billion base pair uh three billion
letters. You change one letter and you
double the life expectancy of that worm.
You add another modification and you
increase its lifespan by 10fold. So
these were discoveries about mid 90s.
First no one believed it. Then it was
reproduced in other animal species which
showed fruit flies eventually moved into
mice and and and slowly you know 15 to
20 years later. So when you identify
these mutations, it tells you that aging
is a tractable problem. If you can find
a mutation, that means you can probably
find a drug that will target the same
enzyme, the same protein and have the
same effect. And so today, that's where
we are in animal models. We can
routinely double the life expectancy of
of many species. A little less, it gets
a little harder as we move up the
evolutionary tree. So you can do 10fold
in sea elegance a little worm. You can
do probably three or four fold in the
fruit flies. When you get into the mice
it's one and a halffold and in humans
the question is we don't know. Uh but
clearly there's the whole idea that
aging is a malleable variable and we've
identified the dials so we can tweak it
either make it faster or make it slower.
Now, when we get into humans, there's a
whole new barrier, which is these drugs
that we anticipate will increase
lifespan and health span have to be
incredibly safe because these are
potentially drugs that would you would
give to someone who's at risk for
accelerated aging in in initially, but
in the future could be everyone. And by
the way, we might already have some of
these drugs around. There are I would
say a number of drugs that some of you
might be taking like glucage or
metformin or rapamycin or ompic and all
of these uh new GLP1 agonists might be
anti-aging drug. They certainly behave
like this in many respects. So we're
right at that transition where there's
an enormous amount of excitement where
the field is moving from animal models
to humans. And you know one thing the
last thing that I want to um I want to
make clear is that at this point there
are no supplement and no no matter what
Instagram says um no supplement no
medicine that are known or documented to
safely increase human lifespan. And so
this is my argument for actually
optimizing your lifestyle because if you
do so hopefully within the next five
years I predict we will have at least
one approved drug in humans for aging.
There are at least five phase three
clinical trials that are ongoing right
now that are targeting the aging
process. If you look at the rate at
which these trials succeed, one can
reasonably predict one of those will
come. There's Royal as Loyal as we we've
heard is going to document this in
animal models. But there's a I just
wrote with a number of colleagues a
review looking at the whole space of
these drugs and there's going to be an
avalanche of these drugs and
interventions coming in in the next few
years. So I think the bottom line is do
everything you can to stay as healthy
using what we know works. Uh and it's
not a minimal effect. The last point I
want to make is if you are, you know,
the evidence points to the fact that if
you were to optimize everything in terms
of lifestyle factors, there's 15 to 20
years of extra healthy life. So most of
us could expect to live to 90 95 in good
health today based on what we know. And
that's already pretty amazing if you
consider the fact that we're living to
65 on average in good health and 75 on
average as a population. So to me, this
is the exciting thing. do everything you
can to optimize your current lifespan
and some amazing things are coming in
the next 10 to 15 to 20 years
and having your body last that long is
is one thing having your mind last that
long is is a whole other Dr.son I wanted
to ask you, I mean, you know, an extra
10, 15, possibly 20 years in cognition,
like if you can't beat your kids at
Wordle, what's the point, right? So, uh,
what is your research? Yeah. What's your
research showing us uh in terms of how
do we keep our mind sharp?
Yeah. So, what I would say is when I
went to medical school, um, there were
no treatments for Alzheimer's disease.
Okay. Uh, the words Alzheimer's and
prevention couldn't be used in the same
sentence. And if you're here and if you
hear that you know you're upset because
your family member has I have four
family members with Alzheimer's and some
of them did live reasonably healthy
lives. 45% of dementia cases
conservative estimate may be preventable
if that person does everything right.
Okay. So I want to say is in full
transparency we're probably about half
of cases of dementia may be preventable.
Wow.
But there's other people that could do
everything right and still get dementia.
So I just want to start with that. That
being said there are so many things we
can do. Um we published a paper in 2019
that showed that on average when we give
people on average 21 different things
from a universe of many more uh based on
emerging principles of precision
medicine and I'll define what I mean in
a minute. Um different people need
different things. So if you have this
gene, you're going to need maybe this
sort of cocktail. If you're a woman,
what women and men have different
brains? Wait a minute. Wow. I never
learned that in medical school either.
women's brains, women's brain health.
The critical window of opportunity for
women is the permenopause transition.
And we don't think about pmenopause as a
brain disease. Some doctors don't even
think about pmenopause as a disease. And
that's terrible. We were taught the
wrong things. We have to pay attention
to women during the permenopause
transition because 25% of women have a
gene that increases risk and hormone
replacement therapy can maybe take that
woman off the road to Alzheimer's
disease. So the concept here is
precision medicine. Whether you give a
person a targeted plan based on they're
a male or a female, based on their
individual lifestyle factors, high blood
pressure, high cholesterol, blood sugar,
um whether we look at um other genetic
factors, other there are so many things
we can do. The the challenge is that
each person needs a little bit of a
different path. Um we have software
that's trying to make this easier. We've
learned and we've published on on what
what works and what can we do. We showed
that in 18 months at the Alzheimer's
prevention clinic, in 18 months, we were
able to projection-wise delay the
likelihood of developing 18 months by 4
to 8 years, depending on how aggressive
or comprehensive that person took that
plan. If we can live better brain
healthier lifestyles for 5 years, 10
years, 12 years, 15 years, or more, we
can really move that needle. Um, so it's
not a panacea. We don't have magic
pills, magic potions. Um, I agree with
you. There's not something on Instagram
that you can take to to fix everything,
but it's the biological principle of
synergy. 1 plus 1 equals three.
Um, exercise is the number one thing
anyone today can do to loos up that
amaloid, the toxic protein in the brain.
What type of exercise? It's not just go
and exercise. Personalize exercise
plans. Doing a DEXA. A DEXA scan, if you
haven't heard of it, DEXA. It doesn't
just look at bone density, although
that's really important. It looks at
body fat, where the body fat is, and it
looks at muscle mass. And as the belly
size gets larger, the memory center in
the brain gets smaller. And different
types of exercise and activity can
reduce body fat. Strength training
absolutely critical. If you're doing all
the exercise in the world, but you're b
burning the candle at both ends and
you're not sleeping, well, that's a
problem, too. So, again, things have to
be done together. Um, the other thing
I'm really excited about are some of
these emerging drugs. um you know can't
take a magic drug and prevent
Alzheimer's but GLP-1s for example GLP1
ones the ozmpics the zeppounds the
mjaros the all these things these drugs
have been around for decades for 20
years Dan and I have the same primary
care doctor in in Florida and he's been
talking about these drugs for 20 years
they're not new they're just being
deployed differently and in the right
person at the right dose and for the
right duration of time if we can deploy
these in a precision medicine
personalizedbased way that's when we can
kind of win the battle
Fascinating. Going back to something you
brought up right at the beginning, the
differences between male and female
aging. Uh I know exercise it seems like
the big common denominator, but but
Vonda, I want to ask you your book is
about this deals a lot with how how
women age, right? So are there big
differences between men and women as
they advance in age? You know, I think
when we think about aging and the and
the hallmarks of aging, the papers which
have expanded from 6, 12, 13, biological
hallmarks of aging, you know, I think it
is, and I don't believe anybody in this
room would do this, but the general
public believes that men and women
biologically are pretty much the same.
But I can tell you even at a stem cell
level, when we were looking at muscle
derived stem cells, if I stimulated
cells from a a male mouse versus a
female mouse, they made completely
different tissues. Well, right. And so
the way that translates into aging and
the way I want you to think about this,
whether you're venture capital or
whether you're clinicians or or curious
minds is that men do lose their anabolic
uh steroids, their testosterone.
Although it's kind of in a linear
fashion and it declines, but like this.
Women have a midlife cataclysmic event
that begins in their as early as 35,
sometimes earlier surgically. But uh the
the belief that estrogen, testosterone,
progesterone for women are only sex
hormones is seeing none of the picture.
Estrogen is an anabolic st uh hormone.
It there are alpha and beta receptors
for estrogen on every tissue brain. I
don't have to name the tissues, brain,
everything. So even a curious mind will
say well if one of the stimulants for
every tissue type is now gone what is
that going to do? So women do not age
like this. Women age and then they age
like this.
And unless we step in front of it, the
suffering gap, there's a health gap.
There's a health span gap. 64 to 81 79
depending. Australia women are living to
85.
Those years are not healthy years. Those
are suffering years. And so we're behind
in venture capital. There is a 200%
increase in investment in companies that
look at women's health over 40 and it
still represents 2% of all venture
capital dollars.
There is a 1% 1% of all uh research
dollars go to research for women after
40. 1% of all health research. And so I
just feel like the more awareness, the
more understanding that at a very
cellular level, men are from Mars and
women are from Venus, as the book goes,
the better we'll be able to serve the
51%.
The five sisters are the majority.
The five sisters. Yeah. And and they are
the key to longevity, too.
So Dan, I want to bring you in because
so much of what we've been talking about
that it's it's individual. We're also
talking about, you know, advances in in
in western medicine. And yet so much of
what you've studied is longevity through
design and design of kind of like a an
ancient wisdom almost. What have you
found in your blue zones uh that that
tell you what the road map might look
like fusing both the things that we've
learned accidentally and the things that
we're learning today? Well, it lines up
perfectly with what Eric was saying,
what Richard was saying. Mark Heyman's
in the audience here. It's the same
things he sorts of pre preaches, the
five characteristics, but I spent a lot
of time thinking about how do you
actually get people to do the right
things for long enough to make a
difference. And um you know, I I put
behavior modification kind of in the
same bucket as the Easter Bunny and
Santa Claus. You know, there's a lot of
hope behind them, but they rarely
deliver. And if you look at the
recidivism curves of diets, you know,
they have about a three-month halflife.
And exercise programs have about a
four-month halflife and they sort of run
out of gas in a year or two. They don't
work very well. People in blue zones,
they don't try to live a long time. They
they don't get on diets or exercise
programs or look for longevity hacks or
run down to Central America for stem
cell treatment. They just live their
lives. And the big insight here is that
they live in environments
that govern their unconscious behaviors,
not their conscious behavior. So they're
eating the right foods and getting that
physical activity and being socially
connected and living on purpose, not as
an act of conscious will or discipline
or presence of mind, but because that's
their environment. So, you know, my
daytime job is not nearly as exciting as
Laura or Eric's over at the Buck
Institute, but uh I get paid by
insurance companies for lowering the
disease load of entire cities.
And the insight to do that is uh not
trying to change a million people's
behavior, but change their environment.
So, they're nudged. And uh one of the
best sort of design hacks there is, and
this is going to sound unbelievably
boring, but it works.
It's walkability.
There's something called this complete
streets uh policy package that
essentially tells city council that
every time you design a new street in in
most of our city streets are red
designed once every seven years. And it
can be designed for cars. If you invite
cars, wide lanes and high speed limits,
you're going to get cars, you're going
to get traffic, you're going to get
pollution, and you're not going to get
very much walkability. Or you can design
those streets for human beings, bike
lanes and wide sidewalks and trees.
The difference is vast. So if you live
in a city like Atlanta or Houston or
Phoenix, which is sprawling suburbs, the
average person in these cities get about
4,000 steps a day without thinking about
it. You know, just sort of walking
around their house or whatever. But if
you live in a walkable city like
Boulder, Colorado, Santa Barbara, or New
York City, you're getting about 10,000
steps a day without thinking about it.
Well, what does that mean for our life
expectancy? For every incremental
thousand steps we take, it lowers all
cause mortality by about 12%. So, your
chances of dying by about 12. It uh
drops by about 12%. So, for the person
living in Boulder, Colorado or New York
over the person living in Phoenix uh or
Houston, that's about 5,000 extra steps
a day. For a 40year-old getting those
5,000 extra steps a day without thinking
about it,
it's worth about 45% lower rates of all
cause mortality, which translates to
about four or five years of extra life
expectancy.
Eric and I agree on everything. Uh I I
do believe the Buck Institute or Lor's
lab is going to produce that thing that
you know is like penicellin which gives
us a huge leap in life expectancy. But
until then, I think we have to shift our
focus away from the folly of thinking
we're going to get 350 Americans to
change their behavior
to designing their environment so we're
setting them up for success.
And I mean, your work has been
incredible and I can't think of a single
person on earth that's met as many
people in their hundreds as as you have.
And I'm hoping I don't know, maybe you
can give us a peak behind the curtain.
What does what does life past 100 right
now today look like in in some of the
best cases?
Well,
Vonda brought up a really good point.
You know, for uh um women who make it to
so for in America, for every one male
centinarian, there's five female
centinarians. But the the male
centinarian has about a 50% chance of
reaching age 100 uh and being in really
good shape. But for the female, it's
only about 20% of them make it to 100 in
good shape. But um there a few
encouraging things. You should aim for
100 by the way. So Eric's right. The
life expectancy right now sort of
maximum average life expectancy if you
do everything right is probably 95 or 96
for for females, 91 92 for males. But
since 1840, life expectancy has been
going up two and a half years per per
decade. So if you're sort of you know 50
and looking around I can see you guys
are a lot younger than that but you can
expect uh you know 50 now if you can
make it to 90 you should get about 10
bonus years. So uh most people sitting
in this audience if you're doing
everything right you can aim for 100.
And the good news about making it to 100
when it comes to happiness age is on a
U-shaped curve. We tend to start out
pretty happy in our 20 and optimistics.
Between the ages of 45 and 55, there's a
trough that tends to be the least happy
years of our lives. But if you retain
your health, happiness continues to
rise. And the cohort that are the
happiest are people over 100.
So you you might not be able you might
not be able to run a marathon or or
throw your baby up at 100, but you'll be
you have a smile on your face.
Wow.
in and keeping it, you know, on on this
wide angle lens here, uh, Eric, I'd love
to ask you, what role do you think the
public sector has in in taking some of
these designs and implementing them and
taking some of the the cutting edge
research and implementing that in a way
that is kind of democratized for
everybody that can't afford a, you know,
particular protocol, I guess. Now I
first I I want to applaud um Dan for for
his work because I think it's it's based
on an important recognition that it
should be easy. It should not be an
effort. But the the fact of the matter
is that we live in an environment which
is not conducive to proper health. So
the question is you know how can we
change that environment. I also believe
there's another dimension which is um
the whole aspect of education especially
starting with our kids in school and and
really lifestyle factors that are you
know leading to health are not
complicated and you know I'm horrified
frankly sometimes by hearing the
discrepancy between what we know is
actually healthy behavior and and what
is not. Uh you look at the standard
American breakfast, orange juice and a
muffin
by longevity standards is an a complete
aberration. Uh I have not had a a drop
of any orange juice or any fruit juice
for the last 15 years and neither should
any of you frankly. So you know and and
this is I I can guarantee you if you
survey a 100 Americans probably about
five will know about this. Now there's
something happening. So there's there's
clearly a gap between the knowledge of
what is a healthy behavior and what
actually is lived in. And some of it is
is frankly is driven by economic
circumstances. So you know one of the
strongest predictor of your life
expectancy is your zip code um and how
long you going you think you're going to
be living. So I think there are a number
of policy decisions that need to be
made. Um, you know, we're looking at
what's happening in in Washington with
some degree of trepidation in terms of u
there's some talks about uh, you know,
increasing the health of all Americans
that is actually really encouraging. On
the other hand, there's slashing of all
federal budgets for research including
in aging u that is going to be
destroying the NI is at risk of
destroying the NIH which by the way is
what got us to where we are today. So if
you have a chance, please write to your
congressman. The NIH needs to be
supported. It is
I I I did not say this for applause, but
I I you know, for every dollar that is
invested by the NIH yields $2 of net
economic output. I think I I defy any
politicians to find any other, you know,
government investment that yields the
same thing. 98% of the drugs that were
approved in the last five years by the
FDA originated in an NIH grant. So we
essentially are at risk of killing you
know the mother goose what yielded you
know this incred incredible increase in
life expectancy of two years every
decade for the last 150 years. So that's
an incredible achievement and we are
frankly at risk of of destroying this
because we you know basic research is
the foundation that yields everything
including the research on aging where we
are talking about longevity today is
based on discoveries that were made with
NIH money back in the 1990s.
So one last word is I think there is
something really interesting that's
happening right now that we are seeing
is the fact that longevity or health is
becoming something that young people are
interested in. It's becoming cool. Uh
there's nothing that could be more
important. We're in California that we
are in some way one of the hotbool.
And I think um this is something to be
celebrated because it it really means
that people are starting to um uh to
really assume the responsibility of
their own health. Now along with this we
need a complete reform of the medical
system that we call health care. It's
actually not health care. It's sick
care. Uh a medical system that is based
on actually keeping people healthy
instead of salvaging whatever is left
when they are you know 65 or 70. So
there's a lot of movement in every one
of these areas. I think one of the thing
for me that is really the most important
is the the idea that the longevity field
be viewed as longevity for all and not
sort of medicine by the wealthy for the
wealthy which it has a little bit of
that connotation right now. But I think
um I I'm confident that given the
intention of many of the people in the
field that I know that we will improve
human health and and so I I'm you know
quite optimistic about what what there
is for us all of us as a nation in the
future.
I'm so glad you mentioned the NIH. I I
would argue the NIH got us to where we
are today and all the breakthroughs that
we see on the horizon are are thanks to
uh the public sector investing in this.
Uh Laura, gosh, I hate to ask you the
hardest question of the day here. Um but
given the current climate, do you think
that the private sector
do you have you seen enough in the
private sector to carry that mantle
forward if we do see um reductions mass
reductions in in a lot of the research
that has gotten us to this point?
Not really or like that's like such a
compl I'm like I know I'm sorry think
about like
um I think I think honestly what's the
most missing is just like people with a
lot of agency starting longevity
companies or doing longevity projects.
So like the funding could increase but
the mistake I when I was first entered
the field I was like I started a venture
capital fund because everyone told me
that funding was the problem and I think
I think it is but hon like I think I
think the biggest thing is just there's
so much to do and it's really hard and
very complex and we just need more
people um and that's yeah that's that's
what I I feel this most strongly about.
Do you see the private sector, do you
see investment,
you know, uh, picking up some, it's not
even picking up slack, like like you you
need the public sector and the private
sector working in tandem to tackle
something like this. Do you do you see
that uh happening in the next 5 to 10
years?
Um,
I I don't I don't It's like the next 5
to 10 years like I'm just really
confused about what's going to happen.
Um,
Touche.
Yeah. But but one thing that I do one
thing I will say that's been very
interesting is this rise of what's
called FRO's or focused research
organizations. So this is a concept that
um Adam Marblestone and San Rodriguez at
MIT came up with where you kind of um
say there's look there's some projects
that are not like not the Manhattan
project scale but kind of similar like
they you can't really do them in a
single lab necessarily. They kind of
require 50 million plus in funding. They
might require like teams of 10 to 20
people from different disciplines where
you have to pay salaries that are
competitive with industry. And for those
kinds of projects, what if we could just
get people to kind of fund them as
though they were a company, but they're
not actually a company. They're still a
nonprofit. And it's hard to explain, but
just someone proposing this idea
resulted in this massive increase of
projects that are doing incredibly
ambitious things and have actually
gotten this amount of funding. And it
just kind of like someone proposed that
we should do this. Like for example, um
this company, this nonprofit called E1,
which is trying to do um kind of whole
brain conneto mapping, you know, in a
very ambitious way. Got the you know, 50
million plus like is is actually going
after it. Um, you know, I I think even
companies like like Cradle where, you
know, we have we're not we're a company,
not a nonprofit, but we're kind of in a
similar vein where we're just like,
let's just go do this. Like, you know,
it's a hard science project. We could do
it in a lab, but like let's just go do
it in a company and just ask for the
funding and just try and get it started.
And so there's there's something
happening right now where you're seeing
more of these kind of midsize, they're
not billion dollar projects, they're not
like a couple million, but they're like
15 million to 100 million projects.
People just like, let's just go do this,
like, and just see if we can make it
happen. And that's that's been really
exciting, too.
Yeah, it's a very exciting time. Vonte,
I want to ask you, you know, one of the
things that that has brought all of us
to this conversation is is the the hype
versus science of it all, right? Uh and
as we go forward, oftent times the most
sensational headline uh the biggest
promise is the thing that gets the
attention and these days attention and
money have this very uh symbiotic
relationship. But you've been
communicating the science on so much of
this for for for quite some time. How do
you see the future of of like, you know,
I hate to say it, like some people that
are like, "Hey, I've got the fountain of
youth, which is a tale as old as time,
uh, versus the people that are doing the
work and and the projects that are
actually needing the funding."
So I have thoughts on this on both sides
of of the aisle if you will that as
research scientists often we work in our
labs for decades. You know one project
in our lab could take five 10 years and
we get to the outcome and we publish it
in a journal
and it's behind a firewall.
Meaning for those of you who are not in
research you got to pay $5,000 for the
journal to make it accessible to
everyone. I had a paper recently that we
just paid the money because it was that
important to me for people to know about
the muscularkeeletal syndrome of
menopause. That paper, not because it's
God's gift of papers, but it is been
downloaded 338,000
times. The average brilliant paper from
the top journals are downloaded 10,000
times and 50% of all work is not read by
anybody except the authors. So if we
want the best science to get out there,
we need to make that accessible.
On the other side, I think that curious
people or maybe
charlatans are praying on the hope of
people who just want to feel better.
You know, I take in my career, I've
taken care of at least a hundred
thousand people. And the common thread
that people come to me with is I'm in
pain and I want to feel better. And so
without educators, real scientists being
able to communicate in a way that the
public understands or feeding
journalists in a way that can be
disseminated.
Who's going to step in? People with the
megaphones. And I think there's a
purpose to public education,
but I prefer to call what I do publicly
education. It's the same thing I did at
the University of Pittsburgh, just to a
different audience versus influencer.
think there's a difference.
And Richard, are you are you optimistic
that that can be done given our current
environment?
Oh, it's been a tough couple of weeks.
Um I mean, you're asking me to I mean,
I've never struck out before. We we had
a letter of intent that we submitted for
a grant. I mean, this is like everyone
thinks their research is great and I get
all that and that's cool. This is this
is cool stuff. I mean, cholesterol tests
for the brain, like fund that. Like,
that needs to be funded. We struck out
like two NIH grants, not scored. We we
whiffed on a letter of intent like
letter we'd even get past the letter of
intent stage on on another grant. Um I'm
not sure what's going to happen to be
honest with you. I think the next three
to four years I asked a mentor of mine
what the heck to do and he's like you
got to pivot. You got to do something
different and whether it's public or
private or company or nonprofit like we
got it all. Like we got to figure out
how to do it. And and I'm I'm not I'm
not not optimistic but I'm I'm I'm not
scared but I'm thinking my my gears are
grinding. um trying to figure out like
how are we going to fund this because
what what's what's we've done in the
last 20 years that ain't happening again
for the next couple years. I don't
believe so. We can call all the senators
and congressmen we want. I just don't
think things are going to change in the
next couple of years. Uh not a political
statement, just I just trying to be
realistic. I we just got to do something
different and and to me it's got to be
public and private philanthropy venture
philanthropy and and forward like what
you said is it like you need 10 12 15 20
$50 million to do the types of things
that's that's not a seed round that's
not a 2 million here that's not an angel
oh help me out this is these are big
projects and and that's the way to be
successful I don't know how to
capitalize that though
Eric do you have thoughts on this
could not could not agree more uh one of
the u interesting factors is at this
time when all of this funding is is
threatened is the time where biology is
showing the greatest potential ever. And
I think if you think to you know to look
back um at the 20th century in the 1920s
you had group of scientists actually
setting up the the setting for a
revolution in physics. you know 20th
century was century of physics with
Einstein and and plank and and all of
this and it incubated for 20 30 years
and then it started in the 50s you had
the first transistor and I went to the
chip and and eventually it led to us
having every one of us a supercomput in
our lab and to be connected to the whole
world to the whole knowledge and
thinking back you know when I was in
high school we got I saw the first HP
calculator which was absolutely
mind-boggling at the time. The idea that
you could punch two * 3 and it would
show six was mindboggling and and this
is where we are. So the 20 21st century
is going to be the century of biology.
If you think about you know the decoding
of DNA in 1950s we had this 50-year lag
and I can I can promise you that the
next 50 to 100 years in biology are
going to be nothing short of amazing.
And it it is incredibly paradoxical and
frankly sad for me because we are
jeopardizing a whole generation of new
young scientists. I see them in my I run
a lab and and an institute 25 young
people coming from all over the world
you know with the same dream and the
same aspiration to change the world to
change health that I had when I came to
this country in 1982
with a suitcase and and a diploma. And I
really worry about us, you know, killing
the spirit. And and frankly, many of
them have asked me, what am I supposed
to do for the future? So there's there's
more than our immediate funding that's
at stake. It's the whole enterprise. The
US is a clear leader in the whole world
in terms of biomedical research. And I
think we are at the risk of
relinquishing this. I I'm from Europe,
so I still have a lot of attachment
there. And I just saw that uh they just
issued a $500 million 500 uh you know
hundred billion dollar offer for refugee
scientists from America. Uh I I never
thought in my in my dream that we would
see this but the brain drain has already
started. I can tell you many of the
young people who are in their 30s or 40s
have seen the writing on the wall.
There's this is not the place to
continue my career. So I, you know,
despite all the optimism and that I
still harbor in terms of what we're
going to be doing, um, it's hard not to
be a realist, as as Richard just said
about what's going to happen in the next
two two to four years and the damage
that's going to be done.
So we are run, we've just run out of
time. I'm going to give you the last
question because I I really do want to
ask it real fast. Uh, give us this is a
two, three, fouryear perspective. What
about the hundredyear perspective? What
about the century perspective? Are you
are you optimistic on uh you know
society pushing the lifespan forward as
we've seen over the last few decades
we've gone you know the average lifespan
is now in the 70s do you think that
we're going to continue to do that
whatever the winds are
not in America things have flattened off
in America but you know this project I'm
doing right now is we found the five
five areas in the world with the highest
health adjusted life expectancy and in
every case. Um, you know, they're
investing uh these found one in
Scandinavian, Southeast Asia, and
another one in the Mediterranean area.
But these places are are living extra an
extra 12 years in full health over
Americans because they have set up their
um society. So people, they're not
looking for the silver bullet. It's
silver buckshot. It's nudges and
defaults at the population levels that
nudges people to move more um to eat
better, more whole food, plant-based, to
connect more and uh in in most cases
they're um probably the biggest thing is
educating
women of childbearing age. That's
probably the single most powerful policy
we could implement to raise life
expectancy. Why? Because children
because educated women um produce fewer
children who are get better health, they
get better educated. They grow up to be
more productive. They make better voting
decisions and it creates an upward
spiral uh which will do more to put up
upward pressure on life expectancy than
just about anything.
Fountain of youth turn to women just
like we've been talking about this
entire time. Five daughters. Uh with
that, we've got to wrap it up. Thank you
guys so very much for coming.
I think the panelists are gonna they'll
stick around answer
