[Music]
Welcome to Brookfield
Perspectives. Today we're debuting a new
feature called Deal Debrief where we get
the download on recent transactions from
the people who put them
together. On this episode, we're
speaking with Dave Gregory and Dave Hall
from our private equity group about
Brookfield's recent acquisition of
Chemile X, the leader in electrical heat
trace systems.
Dave and Dave, it's great to have you
both here with us. To get started, can
each of you tell us a bit about what you
do at Brookfield? Good morning, Dave
Gregory. I've been at Brookfield 15
years. I'm our chief global chief
investment officer for the private
equity group and I also lead our US
industrials investing for the private
equity group. What about you, Dave? Uh,
yes. Dave Hall with Brookfield private
equity business operations. I've been
with Brookfield for three years. So,
Dave Gregory, I'm going to have you tell
us a little bit more about this
transaction. Who is ChemX and what
exactly does this company do? Sure. So,
we closed the acquisition of ChemX in
February of this year. This was a
carveout from Envent, a US publicly
traded industrial company that we did
for 1.7
billion. ChemX is the global leader in
electrical heat trace systems. Think of
what that means and what heat trace is.
I want you to imagine a chocolate
factory, a large complex chocolate
factory. Pipes going throughout the
entire factory, chocolate flowing
everywhere. What's really important is
that that chocolate stays at the same
temperature throughout the entire
factory. So it never hardens up, never
gets too hot, and that's what electrical
heat trace does. So this would be wiring
connected to systems that regulates the
temperature of fluid within pipes. So it
would keep that chocolate at a constant
temperature throughout the entire
process of the factory. Now chocolate
factories are not the main application.
This is mainly used in process
industries like petrochemical and
chemical industries and where liquids
need to be kept at a constant
temperature. It's also used for freeze
protection within real estate as well.
And I'll just highlight the biggest part
of the business is actually aftermarket
replacement. So once you install a heat
tracing in a building or a factory over
the next 30 years of the factory there's
constant replacement repair. So you get
like forlike replacement businesses from
your initial install work that creates a
long tale of very sticky hemorrhage and
revenue. You also said that they're the
inventor of electric heat tracing. Is
that right? Yes, they are the inventor
of electric heat trace systems. The
trade name of the company is known as
Ray Kemp. The product was invented in
1972 and they were the leader. They
founded the industry and they remain the
leader today and their multiples is
larger than their next competitor. All
right, Dave Hall, I know you were in the
weeds on a lot of the operations and the
various companies in our portfolio. Can
you help us understand what are electric
heat trace systems and what are some
examples of them out in the real world?
One of the big movements over the last
several decades has been the move from
steam heat tracing to electric heat
tracing. So in a lot of places steam is
readily available but it's very
inefficient. And you may have seen just
walking down the street steam leaking
from pipes and the amount of energy it
takes to produce that steam is quite
high. So as we move into a more energy
conscious environment, there's been a
big shift towards electric. It can be
powered by renewable sources and then
it's much more efficient than the steam
product. I would say the benefit of
electric versus steam is you can monitor
it real time at every point along the
pipe. So the ability to put sensors on
this and control it is much tighter from
an electric versus steam standpoint
which is critical for customers in some
of their applications. The application
we're most familiar with as consumers
it's used for comfort in bathroom floor
heating. So you're certainly familiar
with that. How exactly do heat tray
systems play into some of the other
areas across Brookfield? It's actually
used in several of our groups. So in the
commercial real estate business, the
heat trace is used to keep pipes from
freezing in cold climates or during the
winter. On our infrastructure business,
it's used in liqufied natural gas
processing to prevent freeze up of the
equipment, tanks, lines, and liqufied
natural gas terminals. They operate at
extremely low temperature. So the
product is absolutely critical. In
bofuels processing, it's used to prevent
the organic material in the line from
solidifying and gunking up the line. So
keep in mind these are all highly
demanding mission critical applications
for our customers. Dave, why was
Brookfield attracted to this investment?
How do we evaluate opportunities like
this and where does it start to become
interesting for us? I'd say just terms
of why we like the business and why we
thought it was worth pursued is if you
go back to our investment strategy and
private equity, we buy market leading
businesses that supply mission critical
products and services that generate
stable free cash flow. We buy them for
value where we can generate operational
improvements. That's what we look to do
in every investment. And if you look at
our investment in ChemX, it's really a
great fit for this. This is the market
leading provider of electric heat trace
in an industry with a very attractive
structure. So they have a durable
competitive position. They're supplying
mission critical products that are a
small percent of the overall cost of the
customer. And there's a long tale of
predictable high margin aftermarket
revenue supporting the free cash flows
of the business. So the business profile
of this company is right down the middle
of the fairway of what we look to invest
in. Then if you look at the situation
the company was in, it's been a noncore
division of its last two owners,
probably last three owners to be honest.
So what we saw in diligence was, and
Dave should talk more about this, is
that it was a well-run business. It's a
market leader, great company, but it
just hadn't received the level of
investment or focus it could as a
standalone. So both in terms of
accelerating growth, optimizing the cost
structure of the company. So if you add
all that up, the complexity of the carve
out, the operational improvement
opportunities, some of the things we saw
in the business that created the
opportunity for us to buy an interesting
company that fit our mandate for value.
We bought the business around nine times
free cash flow perform our value
creation plan. Obviously beyond
evaluating the opportunity to acquire a
company, why do we feel specifically
that Brookfield was well positioned to
do this transaction and ultimately a
good match for this company? Yeah, I'd
say a fertile hunting ground for us is
corporate carveouts. And the way we
pursue that is we monitor the large
multi-industrial companies very closely
as they're always shifting their
portfolio mix. are always devesting
assets. So we started doing work on the
company years ahead of it ever being
sold. So by the time Envven had decided
to sell the business that we knew it was
a company that really fit our investment
framework and we wanted to pursue the
diligence process. We assessed all
aspects of the business. This included
commercial capabilities, manufacturing
operations, sourcing practices,
functional performance. So we drilled
into things like how and where they
invest in R&D, how they deploy capital.
And what we found is while the company
has a fantastic leading position in the
electric heat trace market, they have a
great stable platform. The business was
treated as non-core as David mentioned.
They had limited capital. They were
limited in their ability to invest for
growth and really constrained by what
they could do. So, we're excited and we
have deep experience as operators in
dealing with carveout situations that we
have a high degree of conviction in the
ability to drive value here both in
driving revenue growth, expanding
profitability and then helping focus
your organization on key growth
priorities. We've been investing in
industrials for a long time. So, we've
invested in industrial companies in all
situations, in all geographies, but
heavily in North America through all
kinds of market cycles through funds one
through six of our private equity
business, but then through the prior 50
years of our balance sheet. And look, I
would say the market always changes, but
we always find opportunities and things
to do. And some of our best deals have
even been done at moments where the
market may have appeared expensive. And
that what we find is if you're able to
identify a very high quality business
where you've got a real value creation
plan to drive step change improvement at
the company, you're going to be able to
find opportunities to make great
investments in really any market cycle.
I'd say industrials is going to be a
great place to invest in for a long
time. Were there broader market or
industry trends that really led to us
feeling like this was a good move at
this moment in time? I think for
Brookfield private equity, this one was
straight down the fairway. I think
what's exciting is the legacy of
innovation and research and development
that the company brings which we can
grow off of. We're also excited about
strategic growth. There's significant
opportunity to focus on applications in
the energy transition space. So we
talked about some of these to win new
green field installations and liqufied
natural gas, bofuels, solar to name a
few which we know well. The commercial
capability building is going to be
important. So optimizing how we service
our customers both the industrial and
customers and our channel partners and
this also includes developing new
products and solutions for the future.
ChemX as we mentioned has an amazing
track record of research and development
and innovation that we'll continue to
prioritize. Okay, the deal is done and
now the hard work starts. What are our
initial plans for the business? Where
are we digging into? Yeah, so things are
going great so far. We're standing up
key functions such as finance, IT, HR,
and we're already well on our way to
operate independently. We've also uh
launched our value creation program
which is called empower for excellence.
It's a name chosen by the employees.
They're quite involved. They're full of
great ideas. We've reached out to
engineering, sales, marketing, R&D, and
have got excellent input over the last
couple months. Was there anything that
surprised you about ChemX and this
industry? Yeah, so I'd say two answers.
With any deal, the most fun part is
always getting to meet the people of the
company and learn from them, learning
really about the specifics of the
business and working with them. That's
the most fun part of every deal and
that's different in every single company
we buy. I would say maybe one nuance is
this company sells a lot through the
channel, a lot through distribution. So
just understanding the benefits of that,
understanding how that worked and how to
think about analyzing that as part of
the overall investment was probably a
little bit different than some of the
things we've looked at which have tended
to be more direct to the customer rather
than going through distribution. Let's
dig a bit more into supply chain here.
Yeah. So one of the big areas of
opportunity for us is operational
excellence. We've got a global supply
chain and manufacturing footprint with
operations in North America, Mexico,
Europe, and Asia. So, we're going to
bring a continuous improvement mindset
to those locations to focus on
increasing throughput, quality,
delivery, equipment utilization, and
we've also identified some areas to
spend capital and a couple of targeted
situations around factory automation
that we're quite excited about. Are
there any examples you can reference of
bringing in some of your other
colleagues or having some of that
cross-pollination of insight or
information in the deal process? Yeah,
what I'd say is most of our deals touch
the Brookfield ecosystem in one way or
another. And Brookfield as big as it is
is uniquely collaborative company. So if
I pick up the phone and call someone to
have a question about renewable power in
India, they will call me back
immediately and try to help me. It's
just the culture of the company. So what
we've had a lot of success with in our
deals over time is getting real ground
level direct insight from our companies
and our people and it's just different
than calling some expert advisor and
when you get the straight answer from
your people in the company. So this one
is Dave Hull mentioned there's a lot of
touch points within our ecosystem. So we
talked to really every part of the
Brookfield ecosystem that mapped against
that to understand which of us or our
competitors were they using why do they
do that understand their perspective on
the market on product innovation to
really help us build conviction. I'll
give you one example. There is a very
large energy company that is looking to
make some very substantial investment in
solar that we've got a strong
organizational relationship with and as
part of that they're going to need a lot
of heat trace. So, we're putting a lot
of effort into helping position ChemX
well with them to give them the best
chance at winning that large project.
What we don't do is force cross-ell. So,
we want our companies to run
autonomously and make the right
decisions for themselves. We don't force
cross-selling, but what we do try to get
is companies the right at bats and the
right connections and relationships. So,
we're in the process of doing that
across the portfolio for KeLex. Very
good. You've been in the trenches on a
lot of companies in a lot of different
sectors over time. Is there anything
that this deal and this company has
taught you that you didn't know before
that's been exciting? I think what's
most exciting about this opportunity is
there's so many areas of value. In some
cases when we look at companies, there's
one or two big things that we need to
move to get the value out here. I think
there's really a diverse set of
initiatives that we can pick from. And
so part of the challenge and what we're
going to bring to the focus to the
management team is help them prioritize
where we can move the needle early on.
What I would add is I think what Dave
said is Hall says spot on. There's a lot
of areas, different levers for value
creation. What I also say is the setup
for value creation here is really
attractive. We execute operational
improvement plans, turnaround plans in
all kinds of businesses and situations.
What's really exciting about this one is
while they do need more capital, they
could grow more and there's more they
could do. The company is generally
wellinvested and well operated. So for
example, at their main manufacturing
plant, the safety record is incredible.
The overall product has received
appropriate investment. The company has
good people and the bones are there. So
when we execute value creation plans,
the degree of difficulty, some are much
harder than others. I'd say this one is
fun in the sense that the opportunities
ahead, nothing is easy, but they're not
particularly hard. It's really about
focus and capital and organization. So
we think we can bring all those things
and get out the opportunities relatively
quickly and it'll really result in a
higher growth company. I'm going from
good to great here. That's right. Yeah.
Thank you both so much. I learned a lot.
This was a great conversation. Happy to.
Thanks. I really appreciate it. Thanks.
[Music]
Audiation.
