[Music]
Hi, I'm Adam Danis. Welcome to MBA Ask
the Expert, a series where we discuss a
timely and important issue with a
mortgage industry leader. Today I'm here
with Proctor Loan Protectors Heather
Furo, senior vice president of
operations for part one of our new
series with Proctor Loan Protector.
Today we're discussing a timely topic,
insurance and specifically loss draft
claims. Heather, thank you for joining
us today.
>> Hi Adam, it's great to be here with you
today.
>> Likewise. Uh so let's jump in. This is a
standard question, but to start us off
in the most specific terms, what exactly
is a loss draft claim?
>> Well, when a property claim has been
submitted and approved, a loss draft
check is issued by an insurance company.
And that checks typically made payable
to both the homeowner and the mortgage
serer. And this dual payee structure
really ensures that both parties are
involved in the repair process and that
the funds are used to appropriately
restore the property.
>> That's a nice concise answer there. And
we've seen an increase in them. What
factors are driving insurance and lost
draft claims right now?
>> So, insurance claims and consequently
lost draft claims in part are due to the
increasing frequency and severity of
natural disasters and extreme weather
events. We have hurricanes, wildfires,
floods, just a few examples. And we're
also seeing an increase in cost of
materials. And what that means is in the
past, somebody may have had minor damage
to their property and the cost to repair
it was less than their deductible. Now
the cost is more and in some cases we're
seeing homeowners actually filing
insurance claims that they may not have
filed in the past. So whatever the cause
of a claim, it will require coordination
and handling between multiple parties.
>> That's a very good point. And being so
woven into this process as you are, what
are the main challenges in the lockdraft
process and how can they impact
operations?
>> Key issues include documentation
requirements. So, the mortgage serer
must collect and verify multiple
documents from a variety of sources and
missing or incorrect paperwork can delay
the release of funds and ultimately
frustrate the customer. And then there's
coordination between stakeholders. This
process involves multiple parties. You
have the homeowners, the insurers,
contractors, and our internal servicing
team. So, any miscommunication or
incorrect documents can lead to holdups
and possibly delays in funds being sent
out. And then there's regulatory
compliance. Um, servicesers have to
adhere to to investor guidelines and
state regulations. And those state
regulations can vary widely. And
ultimately from an operational
perspective, the customer experience is
really the most important. And we have
to remember homeowners dealing with
property damage are often under stress.
A slow or confusing loss draft process
can lead to dissatisfaction and
reputational risk. So to address those
challenges at Proctor Loan Protector, we
continue to invest in our digital
platforms, workflow automation, and
enhanced communication tools.
>> As you've outlined, this obviously can
be very complex. So what challenges
might a homeowner face during the loss
draft process?
>> So many homeowners are unfamiliar with
the process, especially if it's their
first time filing a claim. Maybe they've
never hired a contractor before. Maybe
their home is a total loss and they're
dealing with securing alternate living
arrangements. It's likely that they're
unsure of the steps involved and the
documentation required to get their
funds timely. So, we prioritize borrower
education from the very first
interaction. We guide them through the
process, explain what documents are
needed, and outline the inspection and
dispersement steps. We also follow up
with detailed written communication to
reinforce the conversation that we've
had. You bring up very good points and
we know this can be a very stressful
time for an impacted homeowner. So
specifically, how does Proctor Loan
Protector support and educate borrowers
throughout the claim process? We start
with empathy. We train our team to
approach every claim with empathy,
recognizing that that borrower may be
displaced or dealing with significant
stress. So helping them to return their
homes quickly and smoothly is our top
priority. During the initial call, we
direct borrowers to our website, my
insurance portal, and they can easily
manage their claim from there. What the
portal does is feature short videos to
give them information kind of like we're
talking through today. It explains why
both parties are on the check. It talks
about the steps that they need to take
and how they can get the best out of the
process. We also have a section for
homeowners responsibilities. And I think
that's key. We want the homeowner to
know they have a responsibility in this.
If they follow the steps and do what
they need to do, we can quickly respond
to that. And then we finally we have a
tutorial on the site which shows the
homeowner how to navigate the site
really to get the most out of it. Clear
communication ultimately is how we try
to support them as well. We give them
the option. If you are comfortable
working in the website, then continue to
work in the website. If you want to pick
up the phone and call us, we're happy to
take that call and we have people that
can walk them through it. Maybe they're
somewhere in the middle and they want to
use the self-service options on the IVR.
So, we want to tailor the experience to
the customer and the homeowner as often
as possible.
>> Yeah, that certainly seems like that
tailored experience um leads to better
outcomes for all involved. Heather, I've
really enjoyed this conversation today
and I appreciate you chatting with me on
this very important topic. Thank you for
joining us.
>> Thank you for the opportunity to share
this with you.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
