3000 euros per month with 4 million euros of
assets is completely
dissonant.  1.5% over 15 years is, uh,
it's less than inflation.  So,
in practical terms, our friend has lost
purchasing power since he has been
accompanied by, uh, this person.
We can see that he initially invested €26,000
, and he made a 30x return. Hello
everyone, welcome to a new
wealth analysis.  Today, we're
looking at the assets of an entrepreneur
who is preparing for retirement.  Here we go.  So
, as I was saying, at 59 years old, this
entrepreneur is preparing for his retirement.  He
told us, "I had a
wealth management advisor, but my
performance was terrible."  Okay, let's
look at what happened.  In
any case, a very large fortune, 4.4
million.  Obviously, here we are dealing with an
analysis of an advanced profile.  Uh, we
made profiles for beginners.  We created
profiles of all ages, all
professions, uh, high incomes, very low
incomes, high net
worth, very low net
worth.  As you will have understood,
the idea is really to draw up a
comprehensive picture of what is being done in
France so that you have not only
cases that resemble yours, but also
cases that are perhaps ahead of
you in order to see in fact what you need to
do today to find yourself in
this situation.  4.4 million,
obviously, is a very nice
asset base which is mainly
made up of real estate and SMEs.  So
I imagine that this is his company, quite a few
financial assets too, and so we'll
see if there are any loans.  Well, not so much, there's
no
€400,000 loan, so it's very
solid.  This is someone who has almost
paid back everything they owed or who
may have bought and sold several
houses and apartments, so they have been able to
accumulate a lot of
wealth.  I made an exit in 2005,
I'm making another one in 3 years,
€807,000 is very precise.  I need to sell my primary residence for
1.8 million euros within a year.  That's
a good topic.  I would like to remind you that there are
no capital gains taxes on
primary residences, so that's
great.  And his Financial score is
excellent, 96/100. So, the
entrepreneur profile, he earns €3000 per month
and that's quite interesting.  Typically
€3000 per month, €4 million in
assets, that's completely
dissonant.  But we're back to the
topic we've already discussed quite a few
times, which is that salaries are
heavily taxed in France.  Well, income
is heavily taxed, so it's true that as an
entrepreneur, we
typically prefer to pay ourselves dividends if
we have a profitable business, since
dividends are subject to a flat tax and therefore are
at 31 and something.  So it's
capped.  No matter how much you
pay, it's always 31 and something.
It's never, uh, progressive.  However, with regard to
income, it is progressive and the brackets
go up very, very high and it becomes
quite harsh as soon as you exceed
hundreds of thousands of euros of
income.  So this, typically, is a
trade-off that many entrepreneurs
make.  They pay themselves a salary that
allows them to live and cover their
expenses.  But on the other hand, somewhere along the line,
they prefer either to accumulate in the
company, or move back up into the holding company,
or pay themselves dividends.  They
can also pay dividends back
into the holding company.  So, 59 years old,
divorced, civil partner, blended family with
two sets of children, entrepreneur, as I was saying
, back again.  His wife is a
civil servant, earning €5000 a month, so she's
very handsome.  His wife earns much more
than him, but well, you see, it's
always the same, if you do
n't have capital, it's still
difficult to really get rich.  I'm
not saying that the ultimate goal is to get rich,
but what is certain is that at some
point you have to own capital, which
pleases all those who think that everything
should be shared by everyone.
If you don't have capital, well,
somewhere along the line, you'll always be
paid for your time and never be able to
reap the rewards of that capital.  So
it could be a business, it could
be real estate, it could be
financial assets, it could be many
things.  But here's the thing, his wife has
a very good income, but now if
she stops working, well, she
earns nothing.  If he stops
working, well, uh, in fact, he can
typically sell his company.  And so this is
an asset which has a very high
value, in this case €807,000.  I am
disappointed with my old CG, which had a 1.5% IRR over
15 years.  So what is TRI?  That's the
performance, basically, that
he achieved.  Uh,
annual performance.  So it made 1.5% over 15
years.  That's less than inflation.
So, in practical terms, our friend has lost
purchasing power since he has been
accompanied by this person.  I've
taken back control of my investments and things are going
better.  Goal: to stop working
in 2 years.  I want to stop
working in 2 years except for a little
consulting to devote myself to sailing,
hiking, uh, so walking and
renovating my architect-designed house.
As stipulated in my divorce agreement,
next year I will sell an
IMO property which is currently worth 2 million
euros.  Alright.  That shows
the importance of having an agreement, by the
way, he tells us a
divorce contract, what is that?  Was it
a
marriage contract that stipulated this?  I don't know.
But in any case, here it was regulated.
Um, I want to simplify my strategy
to generate €60,000 net, therefore net of
tax per year in 3 years.  So here,
he wants to earn more in retirement than
through his work.  Again, because he
probably pays himself
dividends elsewhere or he
also lived off the exit he
made.  He told us in 2005, "I want to
prepare my estate and protect my
children from my first marriage as well as
my current wife."  OK, the strategy involves
a little BTC.  OK, it's not
really a strategy, I think, but hey
, we're looking at the cash flow.  So there
you have, well you know,
revenues on one side, sales on the
other.  The difference compared to
usual is that here I have his real cash flow
.  That is to say, his
accounts have been synchronized and everything is back up
.  Uh, if he had put
subcategories, for example here
in cars and transport, well, in fact there's
train, uh, I don't know, there's
SNCF, there's Train Italia, there's
Wigo, there's Air France,
Transavia, well, you can put
subcategories, you can even
create smart rules that
allow you to say as soon as there is that in
the name, as soon as it's that type of word,
you put such and such a rule.  And so we will
automatically go and categorize.
And so if you click there, you will see
the distribution by category and by
subcategory.  So you really have
full distribution of your streams.
And so that's really interesting
to analyze.  And then you can
look at that over a year to obviously
get the big picture, since that's what
's
interesting.  So here we see that there is
€3000 of income.  Well, he told us
3000 in the other one in the document.  Since he's
a business owner, he pays himself pretty much whatever he
wants.  In reality, he does
n't need to issue a
payslip.  So he also has a €1200
transfer.  Perhaps a transfer from a
savings account.  So how does he
spend it?  Well, he spends a lot on
transport so there you go, 40%, so
€1000.  Then, well, he makes transfers.
So, does that cancel it out?  You
could say it's somewhat
neutral.  He doesn't spend much on
food and drink.  I
wonder if there might be a joint account
and he didn't put it here, but
350€ seems very low to me, especially
when you are 60 years old, have children
and are in a relationship.  Health at 11%, that's
a fairly significant expense which is
obviously destined to increase.  Then we get
old.  10% off subscriptions.  Then
leisure activities were very low at 1.7%, so he
said he wanted to go sailing.
Clearly, he's not making a sail
for that price, and then we'll go through some very
small things and see over
another month if there are other
things that jump out at you.  So there you have it,
you see, that's why it's
interesting to look at large
masses over a long period.  If we
look at it over 1 year, typically, well you
see that leisure activities make up, uh no, not
much, it makes up 3%.
Even though there are transfers involved.  So
if we removed the transfers, which I ca
n't do here because I'm in
share link mode.  So obviously,
if we removed the transfers, there would
actually be much more.  But
it's not huge, I think, in terms
of leisure, but the budget is quite
balanced and above all we see that he still
spends much less than he
earns, even if, once again, there are
transfers here, so that should be
cancelled, but well, it's the same
over 3 months he earns more than he
spends, so he can save.
Besides, I don't see any
investment fees, well I don't see any
investment, so I don't know if he
continues to contribute, but he
tells us here I invest €200 per month in
BTC and before looking at his assets
we will look at his question in this
case I will not have a pension.
For what ?  Because he is a
business owner, he probably decided not to
contribute.  So we can contribute,
but well, it's extra stuff that he has
n't contributed.  So he is wondering how
to prepare a
comfortable, wealth-based retirement strategy in France.  Very
good question.  So we're going to look at
his assets right away.  That's where we
find the 4 million euros.  We're going to
look at the assets he owns.  So he has the
house that he bought for 1 million
euros.  He made a capital gain of €800,000
.  So, obviously, this is
exceptional.  house which he
bought or at least had
built in 2008, so in the midst of the
financial crisis.  Well, the bottom line is, 18
years later, he made €800,000 in capital
gains.  So, obviously, it's uh,
super super powerful.  He doesn't have any
debt on it.  Then, he has an
apartment on which he made a 30% capital gain
.  When did he buy this rental property
?  In 2020,
so not that long ago,
6 years ago.  And it's an apartment that's
losing him money, which he rents out
unfurnished.  So naturally, it's
unfurnished rental at lower prices, but the property itself
is profitable.  Finally, the property is
profitable; it has a very
high capital gain.  He wants to keep this
apartment, it seems.  I don't think he told us that
.  Very interesting.  And then there's
another house.  Well, it's his
new main residence, I imagine
.  He bought it in 2022 and
currently it is in the red by
€42,000 and he still has a loan on it.
Credit which has a remaining balance of €254,000.  He
has already repaid €64,000.  The rate is
243. So it's a pretty
OK rate.  And here you have another loan that
allowed him to finance the
rental apartment, the rental property.  That was a
great 1% loan, but
unfortunately that kind of loan is no longer available.  So, as for real
estate, nothing to report, he's going to sell the
main residence, well, he's going to sell
his former main residence with his
ex-wife, and he might
buy a boat since that's what
he told us.  I don't know how much
a boat costs.  He told us it was a
sailboat.  I don't know, a sailboat of what,
a good 15m sailboat.  There you go, a little
Benetto.  I believe Benetto is listed on the stock exchange, by the
way, right?  Oh, that's
nice.  Well, that's €125,000, it's in the
port of Marseille.  So to get
a place in a port, a ring as
they say, well, it's crazy because you have to
sign up on a waiting list.
Typically, if you want a berth
in the sought-after ports like, I do
n't know, Sainte-Maxime, well, it's
years of waiting, it costs a fortune,
and you could wait a
lifetime.  So it's a lot
of expense.  Uh, we actually said this in
one of the videos about billionaires,
we'll put the link in the
description, but the best two
days when you buy a
boat, it's a yacht pluton in this
case, it's the day you buy it and
the day you sell it because it's a lot
of problems.  But
well, you presumably want to, and he
wants to take care of it, he
wants to invest time.  So it's
really a purchase for pleasure.  We continue
with his assets, where we find
his company.  He told us it's worth approximately
€800,000.  He's going to sell it
in a few years.  So it's bound to be a
very beautiful moment.  We can
see that he initially invested €26,000,
he made a 30x return, and it's funny to
see that.  I think this is actually the first
time we've looked at this.  Well, for
me, this illustrates the thing I
often tell you, which is that the best
way to achieve
incredible performance is
obviously to invest in yourself, but it's
also to invest in your
business and, in a way, to put
all your time into it since it is, in any case,
the most valuable resource.  And
so here we see that making a 30x return,
yeah, it's possible to make a 30x return
in crypto or in the stock market, it's super
difficult.  It's also difficult to
do it on a box, but he did it
and as a result, well, that's what's going to
pay for his retirement.  So that's pretty
clean.  We can see that everything is
largely in added value.  He put on a
tremendous performance.  He made a capital
gain of €942,000 on his
unlisted investments, including his
companies.  So that's it, that's very
beautiful.  What has he done in the stock market
and, above all, what are the remnants of the CGP
?  So we can see that there are better
investment rates.  I salute Marc Fiorentino
who has appeared on the channel several
times.  So what is this?
It's a life insurance policy with fees
that are, well, a bit expensive at 2.19%, and that doesn't even include
the contract fees.  We don't
know them.  Oh yes, we have we have 2
if 2.19%.  That's just the units of
account, it's not the fees of the
contract itself as they should be
entered here.  But in any case, regarding
assets, well, there are quite a few
PE funds, especially private ones, that's
private.  There are actively managed funds, there are
dated bond funds like here, and
then there are ETFs for this one.  So
there's an interesting mix.  I would be
curious to have an explanation of the
portfolio's composition.  Next,
at Fortuneo, that looks like a
PEA to me.  Yeah, it's a PEA (equity savings plan).  And so,
well, there, he applied all the
Finari precepts, right?  It's all ETFs,
so it's fresh, very, very low.  Quite
exposed, uh, quite diverse actually,
huh.  Uh, 30% US, so that's very little
compared to the MSCI World which is at
70%.  You have a lot of Japan,
Japan is largely overweighted because
it has the Topix which is the
Japanese index.  There's also China with
MSI China.  And then we see that
France is very far behind at 5%, so it's
very diverse with a big bias
towards China and Japan.  So it's quite
curious if you watch the video to have
in the comments your comment on
your desire to overweight these
two territories that
performed very well.  Moreover, China had a great year
last year, and so did Japan
.  So, uh, it was a pretty good
choice.  Moreover, the performance is very
good at 33%.  Link CA, so that's
also a life insurance contract or perhaps a PER
.  So what is this
?  It is a bond fund that is invested
in investment grade and high yield.
So that's the type of credit.
Investment grade means the
safest loans.  High yield refers to
corporate bonds that are
rated lower.  So what does that
mean in terms of performance?  We can see over
3 years compared to the index, well it beats
its index for [music] this time.  It
beats its index, it's 117, well, it's
17% against 8% for the index.  So, pretty
good.  It's a bit
short to form an opinion, but it's
not bad.  It is also curious to know the
origin of this very strong conviction
about Pluval.  Especially since, you
see, given the amount, I might have
put several lines.  And in terms of
costs, well, no real surprises.
The fees are quite high, but well, that's
normal, it's an actively managed fund, so there are
no real surprises.  We continue the
tour.  Okay, we're not going to do them all, but
there's Spirica EMTN.  What is this?
It is a structured product.  Well, that's
interesting.  Let's see how this one
works.  So what exactly is
in this structured product?
So it's an autocool, a product that will be
automatically recalled if
the initial value is exceeded.  So,
auntie, we see that the next
observation date will be May 19th.
May 19th is a month away, and
today the product is in surplus,
so it will probably be
called, with the distribution
of performance, which is the
ideal scenario in reality for this EMTN.
Unfortunately, we don't have any information.  So
in this one, you have a return of
10, well that's roughly what they
promise you, it's a return of 10.5% per
year as long as you are not called back.  The
capital is not guaranteed.  So you
could lose money.  You lose
money in general if at maturity, so
uh 10 years, uh well you are at less than
50%, too bad for you, you are the one who
takes the loss.  So if you're at
-55%, the palm tree is yours.  If
you are at -49%, then the
protection barrier is used and
you do not lose your
capital.  You are reimbursed, uh, the
nominal amount.
You haven't done any
performance either.  However, I often see
people asking me if this is a
product my banker offered me?  Is this a
safe product?  No, it's not a safe product,
it's a risky product.  You see the
risk here is 6/7. So typically
if I take the MSI World, the risk
is 5/7. This product is riskier
than the MSCI World.  And besides, you
also have the index which is a
good index from a small issuer, or rather a
small provider of High Edge indices,
but you still have
decrement issues.  So in fact, you are not
trying to reproduce the
exact performance, but rather to reduce it.  That's it
, that's where the
problems begin.  And the theme, that's what's
interesting, is about defense.
So, naturally, it's a very promising topic.  So there you go
, I think you'll be called back
soon, we'll be observing on a
quarterly basis and the first one will take
place in a month.  So I think you'll
be called back fairly quickly.  And
then the rest, well, there are plenty of
life insurance policies.  We can see that you've
tested pretty much everything that was available, and we
end up with the de giro, which is obviously a CTO
.  So what's in there
?  There's gold, very nice
performance, plus 60%.  There's HSBC at MSCI,
all countries, I think.  All countries,
Far East X Japan.  So there is the Far
East, well the Far East zone, far east
, uh so the evolution of the markets
of the emerging and developed countries of
the East Asia region with the exception of
Japan which is the most developed country in
the zone obviously, but so it is
an interesting fund.  I've never seen that one before
.  And then you have an MSCI
World with an energy weighting.  So
here too on the final account, well, nice
performance but very small account, we can see that
stock picking is not necessarily your
cup of tea.  What else is there
?  There's quite a bit of cash, there are
some interesting Swiss francs and otherwise there are quite a lot of
euros scattered around.  There's
an N26 for €8000.  So, quite a few
banks in all directions.
Euro-denominated funds, well, there are some pretty much everywhere.
Well, that's an
interesting product, especially if you're close to
retirement, obviously.  And then
crypto.  We can see that you invest on
Finar Crypto but you seem to actually have
your Ledger or your
own wallet.  And so, a great performance on Bitcoin,
126%.  The rest is a little less
easy at the moment and we'll look at what's
on Finari but I think it's all
Bitcoin, no
real surprises.  A bit of
booklet.  Uh, that's a
company account and the rest are your
personal and passive accounts, we've already
looked at everything.  So your question is, will
you be able to pay yourself a pension?
And so, there's something really
interesting here, which is that you're under 70
years old.  So, I went to the
tax website and looked at what
we can give to children.  Actually,
I also talk about it in my book and it's not that either
, you can ask
GPT chat.  I think he knows that very
well.  You can give €100,000 to each
child without paying any taxes.  You can therefore
transfer €200,000.  You can
also reset this tax allowance
every 15 years.  So the earlier you make
donations, the less you pay.  And
besides, the less important the tax base is
.
So we need to anticipate that.  So
obviously, we don't always have all of
this in mind, but it's extremely
important to see a
wealth management engineer or a notary to really
anticipate this very early on.  Moreover,
both parents can give, so that makes
100,000 more for the father and 100,000 for
the mother.  So that makes €200,000 per
child in total every 15 years.  So that
's a lot.  Grandparents
can also give, and
donations can also be made in cash.  In reality, it's what we
call a
common present tense.  But it needs to be
consistent with your income.  So
typically, if you give someone, or your grandchild, a gift of,
I don't know, €1000,
it's not a
problem.  You're giving a gift of
€100,000, let's say, well, given your
assets, it's a bit... it's not very
coherent, you know.  So the
tax authorities can reject it in this case.  And
life insurance is interesting.
So here, in fact, there is a real issue
regarding the split beneficiary clause.
So, I don't know if you've seen this,
but if we take this example, uh,
Mr. Dupont took out a
life insurance policy on which he
paid premiums before his 70th
birthday.  So you are exactly
in that situation.  Uh, his contract is worth
€500,000.  Well, that's just for
informational purposes.  His beneficiary clause is
divided between his wife and his two
children.  At the time of his death, his wife was
75 years old.  According to the scale setting the
value of the usufruct, it represents
30% of the value of the capital and the bare
ownership, the remaining 70%.  Since the
mother received 30%, the children
only receive 70%.  So, 70%
makes €350,000, therefore €175,000 per
child, from which we can deduct
the allowance that goes to each
child.  We must also
obviously apply the same percentage that we
applied for the distribution between
usufruct and bare ownership.  But then, with
an infinite amount for the children,
that only amounts to €13,000 being taken out of
€175,000.  So these are still
fairly low costs.  And so this
is a well-drafted beneficiary clause
that allows for this type
of saving.  So this is very, very
important to keep in mind.  In your
case, actually, there are four children.  You
have four children, so there are four
children.  This would, in turn,
eliminate the levies.  So naturally,
it's extremely interesting since
each child will have their €152,500
advantage.  So, you sell your RP,
your main residence, and you get
1.8 million euros.  In our
scenario, what we discussed was, what
can guarantee you'll get rent
?  So, we opted for SCPIs.
That's theoretical, of course.  You could also
very well buy assets that you then
resell, typically
ETFs, shares, all that or
bonds, it would be quite
possible even a money market fund.  So
if we buy SCPIs in bare ownership,
I've already talked about this concept several times
.  So you won't be receiving any
rent in the short term.  And since we know
that you are retiring in 3 years,
what we did was go and look
on this site here to see the
allocation keys for the 3-
year dismemberment.  So we can see that it's 86%.  So
otherwise you have a decoding of
about 13% well a little more 13.5 which
gives you here a share that you will finally
invest 1.6 million euros which is
actually worth 1.9 you add your return
which is on average on SCPIs, we
took a basket of SCPIs of 6.7% so
it is rather very efficient.  Well,
once you apply the tax, you actually
reach €60,000.  So just by
reinvesting the entire
proceeds from the sale of your primary residence without
tax in SCPIs with split ownership
over 3 years, so you have a discount and
afterwards you will pay tax on
the rents, well you get your €60,000.
Note that it is obviously necessary to choose
very diversified SCPIs.
Obviously, you need to choose very
solid managers.  You have to be confident and
aware that you are ultimately
buying an underlying real estate asset,
so you also have to want to do
that.  But in any case, it's uh it's
a hypothesis and with that, you're actually already
at the goal of having €60,000 and
your capital, well, it continues to evolve
quite quite significantly.  That's the belly
of the house.  Now, we say to ourselves, you
sell the company, so that's €800,000
that falls into the pocket, €807,000 that falls into
the pocket.  What are you doing at that
moment?  Well, this is even more
interesting because in fact you could,
for example, open a
Luxembourg life insurance contract and we
see that the assets grow
very strongly.  Once again, these are
very simple, very simplistic percentages that have been applied, but it gives
us a fairly
substantial net worth.  So here we see at 78
years old, there is still some name listed because
you haven't sold everything, but there is
especially a Luxembourg life insurance policy so with
funds, or rather with
financial assets, SCPIs, still some IMO
because you have a primary residence and an
apartment, other financial assets
like your existing life insurance policies
.  So there you go, you're well within
the limits.  So,
to answer your question about how
to prepare a comfortable wealth management strategy
, I think there are two
parts to it.  There is one, you see the
income levels you want.  And that
typically, uh, it's actually
quite simple, you define the
target and then we build
an ad that suits you.  This is just
an example; I think putting everything into
SCPIs is very, very, uh, excessive in my
opinion.  So you should instead create a
portfolio with a very diversified type of asset
and then make sure that the
average return of that thing
allows you to receive the income that you
like.  And on the other hand, there is the aspect of
transmission and protection of the
family which is key.  So what's there
?  There is obviously a will to be drawn up, which is
extremely important and should be done with a
notary.  Do not do this on the internet
using a GPT template or chat.  There are, uh,
beneficiary clauses in
life insurance contracts.
Donations can be made right now.
In fact, maybe even some
pre-session donations for your company.  There are
many, many things.  There's even the possibility,
theoretically, that you might not want to
sell your business, you could make a
trail pack.  Finally, there are plenty of
things to do and this is the moment when
you need to bring in a
wealth management engineer and/or a notary,
probably both.  and uh, make sure
that everything is properly mapped so that
you can then trigger the
sequence.  Especially when there is the sale
of a property and the sale of a
business, these are the key moments where
[music] if it is well planned, the
taxation can be greatly reduced and
uh we can already take advantage of it to
pass on to the children.  Okay, listen,
we'll finish with the Financial score of 96/100.
Where are you losing points?
So you don't invest primarily
through your PEA, but that's probably
related to your age since you're already thinking about
passing it on to your children, and I
understand that well.  You still have room
for tax breaks since you are
very far from €152,000 per child.  You have
n't necessarily optimized all your
taxes, there are still a few small
things to iron out, but that's all, right?
So 93 out of 100, we're at a
near-perfect score.  Well done for taking the
plunge and taking control of your
assets.  I wish you a happy
retirement.  You will send us photos of
your sailboat and your berth in the port.  And
uh, if you also want me to
analyze your assets, whether you
're a retired millionaire or a
broke student, then feel free
to apply.  The link is in the
description.  Each [music] week,
we select an
interesting profile so that we can
learn new things about
investing.  So you're applying.  I'll see
you in a week
and until then, I wish you good
investments and I'll see you very
soon.  Ciao!  [music]
[music]
