MCP model context protocol is a standard
that lets AI agents securely connect to
real tools like databases, documentation
systems, and APIs. And it's great. But
what many have noticed is when working
with a lot of MCP servers, that can mean
dealing with multiple configuration
files and syntax for different clients
like cursor and claude and others. And
sometimes secrets are exposed as
environment fireables in config files
which is not secure. Enter the Docker
MCP toolkit which solves this. In this
video, I'm going to be showing you why
configuration no longer needs to be an
issue with this MCP toolkit and show you
how easy it is to add servers like
GitHub and notion and connect them to a
client like Claude and watch them all
seamlessly work together. The Docker MCP
catalog and toolkit inside a Docker
desktop is a management interface that
lets you set up, manage, and run
containerized MCP servers and connect
them to your AI agents. It also provides
a CLI for server management. This
toolkit includes a curated catalog of
over 300 plus MCP servers, including
remote servers, so it's easy to find
popular options. Setup is simple, no
config files to edit, and everything
runs in containers. It also has built-in
OOTH and secure credential storage, so
you can authenticate safely without hard
coding secrets. In the toolkit, all MCP
servers have three views, an overview,
tools, and configuration. Some require
more credentials than others, but the
beauty is that the approach is
consistent.
fetch requires no configuration.
MongoDB on the other hand which has 22
tools
requires a connection string and Altzian
used for Jira which has 42 tools
requires several URLs and secrets. But
let's set up a couple as an example. I
have a notion database here of customer
feedback. And what I like to do is
create GitHub issues for them by using
Claw Desktop as a client. Let's see how
easy it is to add each and get it done.
So the first server that we want to add
is GitHub, specifically GitHub official,
which I'll go ahead and click on add
server here. I do need to give it some
form of authentication and I can do it
by uh personal access token or using
OOTH. And the main difference between
OOTH and a personal access token is that
OOTH gives temporary revocable access
through a secure sign-in flow. While a
personal access token is a longlived
direct key you could generate manually
to give the server ongoing access
without logging in. If you wanted to
create a personal access token, you can
just go to GitHub on your profiles,
navigate to settings and on the left
pane towards the bottom there's
developer settings where you can then
click on the drop-down for personal
access tokens and right over here on
fine grain tokens you can generate a new
one. Once you have your token, just
select the radio button for personal
access token and paste it in and select
the check box and you are ready to go.
However, in our case, we will be using
OOTH. Once I click this link here, I can
go ahead and press authorize and it'll
bring up this site here. Now I'll click
authorize Docker.
Select open Docker. And at the bottom
right hand corner you can see login code
received for GitHub. And now if we go to
my servers I see GitHub official. And
under tools these are the ones that will
be available for us to use. And under
configuration it says that it is
authenticated. Next server up to add is
notion which two of them show up but I
want the one on the right with the cloud
icon. That is the notion remote server.
So when I now select it we have overview
and tools. For tools nothing shows up.
That's because it's remote server. And
for configuration it does give me the
option to authorize with the notion
oarth provider. And when I select it I
can then click authorize. And then this
page will come up where I need to
confirm that I trust the URL. And at
this point it will connect to my notion
account once I hit continue.
Then I can circle back to the desktop
and it will indicate that it is
authorized. Now last but not least is
claw desktop which simply by clicking
connect does the job. Boom. You can go
and select this link for verification
instructions if you want to review that
and choose claude desktop and try to
verify it. But I like to go straight to
claude desktop and then give it a
question such as what's the name of my
GitHub account. This way it's it's
verifying claw desktop and also the
connection to GitHub which it finds
provides me a link and I can actually
open it up. There it is, the Reynold.
Next, I'll ask it to check to see if it
can see my Notion customer feedback
database
using the Notion MCP server. It finds it
and then begins to collect the structure
details of my database, which has the
title, feedback, source, priority, etc.
And when I compare it to my database,
that's exactly what it has.
After this, I'll go ahead and ask it to
review my customer feedback database and
summarize the main themes and identify
which items should become GitHub issues.
So it goes through, does that work and
returns me just as I asked the main
themes in addition to its recommended
GitHub issues, which right now looks
good to me. Next, I'll ask it to create
a repo. Now, I could have asked all
these things just at once, but sometimes
for the first time around, it's good to
just do it one step at a time before
doing it in bulk.
So that was successful and now I will
say go ahead and please create these
issues in my
repo. I'm able to take a peek to look at
the tools that it's using. But when it's
done,
hop over to my repo. And when I check
out the notion customer feedback,
I see the issues that it created.
and it looks beautiful. Much quicker
than having to do all this manually. And
on top of that, it's important to note
that you only need to configure once,
including when using OOTH. So, it
carries across MCP client. So, for
example, I can connect both Notion and
GitHub servers to clients like Gemini
CLI or VS Code by simply enabling them
through a click. So, you don't need to
keep reconfiguring it. set and forget.
So that's a quick look at how Docker MCP
toolkit makes it easier to discover and
most importantly configure with ease and
securely run MCP servers. Let me know in
the comments which MCP server you use
the most. And if you got some value out
of this video, definitely check out this
one here, too. I'll see you in the next
one.
