There's no chance for you to see paths like
this the same after watching this video.
Okay, welcome to Security Bites.
Today we learn about arbitrary file reads.
This class of vulnerabilities allows attackers
to access arbitrary files, including credentials
or critical system files.
In cases where attackers managed to leverage
their read access to achive write access,
they can take full control of your system.
There are different names associated with
this vulnerability class such as Path or Directory
Traversal, or even Dot Dot Slash in reference
to the syntax to traverse up a directory hierarchy.
When you hear those names, you should be aware
that the impact is potentially critical.
These vulnerabilties result from the common
software requirement to read the contents
of a file, such as for example, a user's profile
picture.
Behind the scenes, these operations are backed
by a file read for an image residing on a
file system.
Facilitated by the operating system's corresponding
API.
When an attacker controls the input to file
system operations, such as for example, the
path to a file, they may be able to control
the whole path and traverse out of the intended
directory.
If a code base doesn't properly defend against
such attacks, anybody will be in position
to change the path and make it point towards
any other system file.
In our example advisory, GitHub Security Lab
researcher, Jaroslav Lobaceviski, or JarLob,
managed to read the database with user passwords
for a popular media streaming server through
an arbitrary file read vulnerability.
Let's understand how.
There were two path templates that could be
potentially tested for such vulnerabilities.
We can see that there are path segments that
can change dynamically, like itemId, and segmentId.
If there is something that I want you to remember
after watching this video is that file paths
depend completely on the operating system
and use, for example, Linux and Macs use different
slashes compared to windows.
And this needs extra care because individual
path segments can be placed by absolute paths
to override the previous path.
Jaroslav did exactly that by providing a specially
crafted HTTP request that was using backslashes
or % 5 capital C in order to replace those
path segments.
This is the crafted HTTP request that is able
to read the database with passwords.
Time to talk about mitigations.
If it is necessary to pass user supplied input
to file system APIs, use the following two
layers of defense.
First, it's a good practice to validate user
input before processing it.
In the previous episode on code injections,
we spoke about allow lists to ensure that
user input contains only permitted characters,
keeping in mind any cross platform particularities,
if applicable.
After validating the input, you can now build
the final path, which will be processed by
the file system API.
The second layer of defense is very important
and this is all about how you're building
the path.
The best practice is to canonicalize the path,
which means to simplify and reduce into a
standard form.
Our expert tip is to use standard libraries
to build a canonical path as the safest way
towards cross platform security.
Then for one last time, make sure that the
path you've built is valid.
A valid path is one that: A starts with a
base directory and B has validated user input
appended.
I can't emphasize enough how crucial and effective
in terms of a mitigation is checking that
the final path starts indeed with a base directory,
which is what the example code on screen is
checking.
Make sure to comment below to let us know
which vulnerabilities to cover next.
In the meantime, stay in the loop by following
us on Twitter.
Remember, quality code is secure code.
