[Music]
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, we say goodbye to tired market
takes and superficial sound bites.
Because here, instead of skimming the
surface, we dive into the heart of
capital allocation, striking the perfect
balance and exposing the subtleties that
reveal the topic's true essence. Prepare
to have your perspectives challenged as
we open up the issues that resonate with
the hearts and minds of those shaping
capital allocation. We've enlisted the
wisdom of visionary leaders in the
industry. And just like a meticulously
crafted wine, we'll allow their insights
to breathe, unfurling their hidden
depths and transforming our
understanding.
This is season 2, episode 10 of Capital
Decanted, Assetbased Lending. I'm John
Bowman and I'm Aaron Philbeck and we are
your hosts. A huge thank you as always
to our returning title sponsor,
Alternatives by Franklin Templeton. We
are of course grateful to have them back
to partner with us. They've been here
from the beginning. Franklin Templeton
has over 40 years of alt investing
experience, over 260 billion of asset
center management. Their specialist
investment managers have expertise
across six different asset classes. Real
estate, private equity, private credit,
hedge strategies, venture capital, and
digital assets. And of course, all of
them operate with the client first
mentality that has always defined
Franklin Templeton to help prioritize
investment outcomes. So, thanks again,
Alternatives by Franklin Templeton. All
right, Aaron. Assetbased lending. We've
done several episodes on what I would
call coming of age stories. it it often
navigates to those types of topics this
show across the two years that we've
been doing this where strategies or
techniques or financing mechanisms they
might start in the dark corners of Wall
Street or high sophisticated finance and
then they institutionalize a bit they go
mainstream and so I'm thinking for
example GP stakes that was season 1
episode 10 or secondaries which was
episode 14 those were great examples of
this evolution and even in some sense
the larger category story we're going to
be speaking of today, our episode on
private credit last year, which was
episode 11. These capabilities often
blossomed from distress desperation from
lenders or capital providers of last
resort to widely accepted portfolio
tools. And just as the story goes, today
serves now as a crucial and flexible
source of capital for business
expansion, inventory financing, growth
and acquisition, and cash management.
And we'll talk a lot about that. They've
gone from fringe to widely accepted. So
ABL shares this coming of age story with
many topics. But Erin, I don't know
about you, but that's really where the
similarities as my research unfolded
ended because I would argue, and I know
this is hyperbole and perhaps a bit of
exaggeration, but it seems to me that
this is the most idiosyncratic and
complicated asset class we've covered.
In fact, I'd suggest it's hard to even
make the claim that this is a single
asset class or exposure or economic
factor that you can kind of put your
thumb on and say, "I need some more of
that beta or I need some more of that
risk premia." And that's even after
hours of study, reading, and
conversation because each of these loans
are snowflakes. They're each unicorns to
borrow from our family office friends.
If you've seen one loan, well, you've
seen one loan. ABL puts the specialty in
specialty finance. I like that one. So
yet, that's what makes this space so
fascinating and intellectually
stimulating, at least to me. But I will
say nonetheless, I do not envy the CIO
in having to think about the right way
to allocate to this space. If that's
even how you should think about it, by
the way, we should ask Greg about this.
How do you allocate? Should you allocate
actually to the space explicitly? And
even more so, I don't envy even more
conducting the multiaceted due diligence
and eventually underwriting and sizing
of these GPS. So, you're in for, I
think, a really nice journey here. That
is, however, why Capital Decanted
exists. That's all the more reason ABL
was the perfect topic for this show. It
it combined a couple characteristics
that really define who we are here at
Capital Decanted. One is this
multi-layered, complicated,
misunderstood nature of this category of
credit. As I've just been talking
through, you need a few breaths, maybe a
couple glasses of wine to navigate your
way through this. Sound bites and social
media fluff just ain't going to cut it,
Aaron, on this stuff. But second, this
stuff is hot. We often talk about the
Kaya stage indicator, as you might say,
to identify the trendy. In other words,
given all the industry events that we
host and speak around the world, we have
this unique perch in which to gauge how
often panels and speakers are mentioned
and what topics or investment
opportunities are advocated for most
often. And Erin, I was thinking about
this, by the way, in my prep. I I think
we probably could have monetized this
leading indicator to make some serious
money. I think back to crypto cycles and
middle market lending over the last few
years. I think we should back test this.
So, if you could get to work on that be
great collateral, John, speaking of
spacebased lending. Wow, you've been
waiting for that one. So, we'll check
back in on this back test on whether we
can productize this going forward. I
wouldn't say to be fair that ABL has
reached the fever pitch that we've seen
with some of the others, but we are
certainly hearing a lot about it right
now, particularly in light of how
crowded the direct lending, the
traditional, if you can call direct
lending traditional, but the traditional
direct lending space has gotten. So
today we're marrying as I said
complicated with a lot of momentum.
That's a perfect candidate for us here
on capital decanted. So assetbased
lending, it's exactly what it says on
the box for those of you which I assume
is very few who are new to this, but
assetbased lending rather than a
traditional loan that is secured or
based upon the credit quality, the
operational health, the cash generation
of a business, an AL is secured by the
underlying value of a specific company
asset or assets identified as the
collateral, hence the name. And of
course, under the terms of these loans,
the lender has the right to seize that
collateral if the borrower defaults on
their loan. The collateral could be
tangible like real estate, machinery,
and equipment or inventory inhouse.
These are things you can feel and touch
or intangible such as intellectual
property, royalties, R&D, discovery, and
patents or accounts receivable, which is
very popular as we'll talk about. So,
just to make this very simple, the
mortgages on our homes are effectively
assetbased loans. Most likely a bank,
not most likely, almost certainly a bank
conducted or commissioned an appraisal
on the value of your house and they
determined through that appraisal an
appropriate loan to value LTV against
said appraisal and they therefore loaned
you that amount of money for you to buy
your home. And just like with all ALS,
as I mentioned, that bank actually has
rights to claim and sell your property
if you default on that loan because it
serves in this case in this example as
the underlying collateral to secure that
credit, that mortgage. So the great
contradiction here, Aaron, getting back
to my point on the most idiosyncratic,
the most complicated, is that it's
fairly straightforward concept at the
micro level, at its essence, as I just
explained in an individual mortgage. The
issue is that it's expanded to a myriad
of very complex industries and
collateral types. And so grouping this
and generalizing and stereotyping is
where you get into trouble and where you
find yourself working through just a
wide variety of different credit types,
collateral types, and GP expertise. And
it's that that we're inviting you today,
listeners, to discover with us today.
And I think we're going to have some
fun. So speaking of that journey, I'm
going to do a few things. First, I'm
going to give you, as I typically do, a
brief history of ABL. And unlike some of
those other coming of age stories, this
is neither linear nor smooth. Its
evolution is better represented by
starting at a single point and beginning
to draw bigger and bigger circles
outward from there. It's this meandering
maturity story like the start of the
yellow brick road for you Wizard of Oz
fans. Aaron, when you know, you know.
So, history. Second, Aaron's going to go
into a little bit more detail on types
of collateral, especially how it's
expanded away from the banks here, but I
want to outline a few archetypes of
businesses where also
need for this type of credit. So,
getting away from the philosophy to how
does this actually help the world in
which we walk in and operate in and
transact in as consumers. And finally,
as a segue and some important identity
hooks, as I hand off to Aaron, I want to
give you very quickly some market
sizing, some profile data for the AL
industry today, which is a whole lot
more challenging than you might expect.
Aaron's going to then unpack in his
segment in more detail the different
types of AL today, which by the way seem
to broaden by the day. Every article I
read is reshaping types of ALS. who
plays in which of those segments with a
particular eye towards where the banks
are still dominant or at least a major
factor and finally outlines some of the
common misconceptions, areas of
confusion, things to look for when
analyzing these strategies. So, he's
going to be putting on his old due
diligence hat there. And then we will be
joined this episode in studio by two
exciting guests that are really experts
in this field of ABL. Cedric Henley,
partner and chief risk officer of
specialty finance at SLR Capital
Partners, which is a 13 billion of
investable capital private origination
platform. And then Greg Turk, deputy CIO
and head of private markets at the 13
billion Illinois Police Officers Pension
and Investment Fund. So, we'll be
looking forward to speaking with Seed
and Greg as we navigate through this
exciting topic. Sound good, Erin? Sounds
great. Well, let's go. I want to open
with a question to you. You shared with
me, I forget, in an email as our prep
was wrapping up that you found a cool or
weird anecdote, I think were your words
about ABL that you came across in this
space. And listeners, by the way,
decanters, I've not heard this either.
So, we're hearing this for the first
time. And if you get to know Aaron, you
need to buckle up when you ask him for
weird anecdotes. So, Aaron, off to you
live. Yes, absolutely. So, this is a bit
of a preview of what's to come in my
segment, but I talked to a couple people
in trying to prepare for this because as
John mentioned, this is a very
complicated and growing esoteric area of
the private credit complex. And one of
the examples that was given to me in
terms of a deal or a loan that one of
the GPS presented to an LP that I was
talking to was a loan that backed
Bitcoin mining companies and the
collateral was the computers that were
actually doing the mining for Bitcoin,
which sounds great in theory until
Bitcoin falls 50%. So, we'll get into
some of this a little bit in terms of
collateral, but that was one of the
weirdest things that I've heard in terms
of just the collateral backing some of
these loans. You can get really specific
and esoteric with some of this
collateral. The last thing I'll say,
John, cuz I have to get a joke in here,
is I will be listening to your segment
and the duration of your segment with
great interest. Too good. That actually
rhymes with a couple examples I'm going
to talk about later. Maybe not quite the
volatility of crypto, but there's some
systemic circular elements to this when
you get into high-tech ABL. So, put that
up on the wall. Park that for a few
minutes and we'll get back to it. All
right. So, before I unleash my inner
historian, we first need to throw out a
huge definitional disclaimer. This was
something Aaron and I talked about at
length. This was an enigma, honestly,
that haunted the entire prep and perhaps
has you scrambling too, as you start to
read about this. And if you read
articles in the media, there is massive
conflation of what I'm about to talk
about. So we are going to make a big
distinction between assetbased loans AL
as we're calling it and again these are
individual credits secured by a specific
underlying corporate asset with the
entire world we're distinguishing it
against of Asabast. So we are going to
make a big distinction between
assetbased loans ABL. Again these are
individual credits secured by specific
underlying corporate assets with the
entire world of assetbased finance or
assetbased securities ABF or ABS. You
might have heard that called. Now that
might simply sound like semantics or
acronym gymnastics but these are
literally trillions of dollars apart. So
it's really critical we draw some lines
here. When I say assetbacked finance or
ABF, I'm talking about the enormous
world mostly originating in banks,
pooling a bunch of assetbased loans and
then trunching and syndicating them.
KKR, for example, has this space ABF at
nearly 5 trillion and moving to 10
trillion in 2030. So, as we'll talk
about shortly, true ABL is a fraction of
that. assetbased finance has occupied
our conscience and frankly Hollywood
theaters in the form of collateralized
loan obligations, collateralized debt
obligations for all kinds of underlying
credit. Perhaps notably, as you all
remember, or at least most of you should
probably remember, the subprime mortgage
crisis that brought the global financial
system to its knees in the GFC. But
these collateralized securities also
have other flavors of mortgages,
consumer credit card debt, auto loans,
and project loans in areas like
commercial real estate, aircraft, just
to name a few. So to be clear, again, I
cannot put a finer point on this. Today,
we are disciplining ourselves to focus
on true private capital origination
platforms that are sourcing,
underwriting, and servicing these loans
and credit risks from their own balance
sheets or funds. So, another way to say
this is that this is true assetbased AUM
versus syndicated financing. Really
important preface here. Okay, so
definitions established. Off to the
history. As you might imagine, ABL in
one sense are probably the oldest form
of credit in human history. And you're
going to like this. And that's because
the relative security, the known
downside again, you've got assets and
particularly in the earlier days, all
physical assets that you were valuing
these loans against. So there are
actually records in ancient Mesopotamia,
this modern Iraq and Iran, as early as
3000 BC. This is during the Acadian and
Sumer empires. This was the time of
Gilgamesh. If you remember your high
school epic, Sargon the Great. So this
is a few moments ago. Now, I'm not sure
Gilgamesh did any syndication of these
ALS. We'll have to look back at the
record. But nonetheless, traveling
merchants would borrow against their
goods, their livestock or their land
from these money lenders. Or farmers
would borrow against their future
perspective crop harvests. Again, this
is 5,000 years ago. So really
mind-blowing if you think about it,
during the Middle Ages, fast forwarding
just 4,000 years, mercantile finance
extended this practice to things like
spices, gold, textiles. Famously, Henry
VIIIth after the shame of the family
food fight of the English throne, this
the infamous war of the roses, resorted
to AL to fund his invasion of France
later in his reign. Very interesting. So
the military has levered their assets
for purposes of invasion and war. So in
more modern history, this practice began
to proliferate during the industrial
revolution early in the 20th century.
Now you can imagine that heavy
manufacturing and back then early in the
industrial explosion it was
overwhelmingly textile garment steel
factories they would struggle to secure
traditional financing because they were
assetri and cash starved these business
models and particularly as they were
beginning to establish themselves. These
businesses had very big balance sheets
but very thin and often upside down
P&Ls. So they were forced to turn to
alternative forms of revolving credit
that levered their prized assets,
typically their factory equipment or
their physical inventory. And this
reliance on AL for heavy manufacturing
companies was of course exacerbated
during the Great Depression when the
credit market seized up for years and
they needed a reliable cash facility to
survive this economic turmoil. But it
was not until the 80s when you began to
see two parallel identities of AL
emerge, which really starts to paint the
picture of our coming of age story. So
on the one hand, the use of AL began to
be used as a working capital tool.
Intangible assets like accounts
receivable began to be levered to ensure
the company could cover payroll, rent,
and general expenses while their supply
chain worked itself through their cash
cycle. It also allowed companies to fund
expansion, new equipment purchases and
growth endeavors. So that's one side of
this dual path. But this is also when
the distress stigma and narrative really
emerged for ABL as it begun to be
associated ABL that is with the very
last option and source of capital for
businesses with limited cash flow or
even worse companies in process of
restructuring, dancing on the bankruptcy
line or facing LBO recapitalization
because this is the time the chapter of
the corporate raider of the hostile
takeover phase that really picked up
steam in the late 70s and into the 80s.
Now, most recently, ABL really took off
during COVID when global supply chains
literally froze for several months. And
arguably, you could say even though they
picked up again, at least they started
moving again after several months, they
really didn't completely thaw for a
couple years. So, ABL was an
unprecedented lifeline for many to
survive that cash desert and that
economic volatility. So, as you can see,
there's been these chapters of it
serving urgent needs and chapters of it
allowing for balance sheet optimization.
Hence my point on it meandering this
history. It wasn't a straight line. So I
think that winding and serpentine-shaped
history leads us to our archetypes which
I think is really interesting. It's here
that we see the diversity, the ultra
bespoke nature of this credit category.
It also brings as I alluded to some full
technicolor illustrations to the concept
that really help me at least crystallize
the role of these loans as I said in the
real economy. So, by the way, I
certainly don't pretend that these are
anywhere near exhaustive, but what I've
done through the course of my reading is
chosen and grouped five business
profiles that really dominated my
research and extend this practice way
past its desperation label. So, I'm not
going to cover the distressed narrative
here at all. These are beyond that. And
I realize it's still working to shake
that narrative, but nonetheless, these
are five archetypes that take advantage
often of ALS. So number one, I'm going
to call this long payment cycle or
extended supply chain. So these
businesses usually have multiple
specialized raw materials, significant
lead time between purchase of those
inputs and ultimately harvesting the
cash from their finished product sale.
Think of garment and apparel companies
or healthcare providers. And by the way,
when your main payer healthcare
providers is the government, you don't
have high expectations for quick
turnaround of bills. So import export
businesses and international trade would
also fit I think into this category as
days sales outstanding you might say for
payment could be literally several
months. So you might call these extended
supply chains cash delayed businesses
they need access to working capital. So
that's number one. Number two lumpy or
seasonal businesses. Aaron by the way do
you know my very first job 14 years old?
I don't I don't think you've told me.
Well, it was Chickfil-A, which by the
way is neither seasonal nor cashrich.
But my second job, importantly, was KB
Toys, which probably Did that exist in
your childhood? It did. I shoed there
quite a bit, actually. Well, I worked
there. I ran the Fashion Square Mall in
Charlottesville, Virginia, KB Toys.
That's an exaggeration, but I worked
there. I stock shelves, basically, is
what I did. This is largely defunct,
which is hopefully no correlation with
my lack of skill in stocking the shelves
or merchandising in the 90s. But the toy
business itself is massively hit driven
and seasonal, obviously. So, when a new
Star Wars or Avenger film comes out, you
see a spike in sales. When a new video
game system is released, you see a
spike. And of course, we all know that
the large majority of toy sales come
around the holidays, post the so-called
Black Friday, when these businesses move
from the red to the black in annual
profitability. Have you ever seen a
Halloween store? I have. Yeah. That's
the oddest business model that's ever
been created. So, I don't know why these
exist, but I imagine, for example, their
cash balances struggle for about 350
days a year. They get about 2 weeks of
cash movement. But beyond toys, jokes
aside, there is seasonal apparel and
equipment. You can imagine agricultural
operations, obviously, that's massively
seasonal. Tourism related activities.
So, you get the idea. These are great
examples of businesses that need to
smooth their working capital against
these jagged and concentrated cash
behaviors of their consumers. Third,
industrial product. So to some extent,
this is an extension of the delayed
supply chain. But the reality here, the
unique additional factor here is that
the working capital, the shipping and
the production costs are really
substantial in these types of business
models. So think of drilling and mining,
aircraft engines, auto parts, freight
and trucking, medical equipment,
technology infrastructure. These are
big, big product, expensive, long
production cycle, assembly line product,
very expensive, physically large, take a
long time to monetize. So the idea here
is to unlock trapped capital that just
gets clogged up in the system given the
timing. That's third. Fourth, R&D. Our
guest today, SLR, is actually one of the
private capital firms that have really
built this practice in life sciences or
pharma or biotech. This is lending
against those future discoveries,
royalties, patent exploitation. So these
companies need access to ongoing capital
to keep funding the chemistry, the
research, the design, the trials and the
marketing associated with their
innovation. So largely in the healthcare
space. And finally, number five, growth
financing. Now, the most obvious here is
early stage companies that don't have
the history of cash flow, similar to the
early history of AL. They can't justify
traditional direct lending because they
don't have that three or four paychecks
we're used to giving to the bank when
they're looking at our credit
capability. But they can lever their
assets. So, similar to back in that
industrial revolution, but very much
these are new economy models I'm really
pushing on. And this category is also
robust for established companies that
want to enter new product lines, new
geographic areas, make acquisitions. So
I mentioned to put a pin in Aaron's
story on the tech side a few moments
ago. So one of the recent examples here
I found fascinating that has received a
lot of press coverage has been the AI
cloud companies that provide support to
companies that are building LLMs, large
language models and generative AI. So
these are companies like Crusoe, Lambda
Labs, Core Weeave. These are businesses
that have secured massive AL facilities
against their inventory of, drum roll
please, Nvidia GPUs. So a single AI GPU
from Nvidia could cost 30 to 50 grand
and a full rack might cost as much as $2
million US. So you can imagine the
levering power of this equipment in
these data centers basically. And guess
what these Neo cloud companies are doing
with all this new access to capital?
Well, yes, they're buying more Nvidia
GPUs. So, I alluded to this systemic
risk. So, question for another day is
whether Nvidia is creating some circular
systemic risk in the credit system
because they are basically syndicating
and syndicating these loans and credit
against the same collateral to buy more
of that collateral than levering it and
on and on. So, you get layers and layers
of Nvidia GPU collateral. So, there you
go. extended supply chain, seasonal
businesses, industrial product, R&D, and
growth. Again, probably not exhaustive,
but I think it really brings to life the
power of some of this ABL credit capital
access. Okay, let me finish off my
segment very quickly by painting a
picture for you of the current sizing
and the state of the AL ecosystem. So,
remember what I said at the start of the
show. We are differentiating for
purposes of today's episode from
assetbased finance only focusing on true
originators and operators of AL. These
are GPS and banks where you could
explicitly capture AUM or what you might
call investable capital. But it's a
whole lot easier said than done is there
is a ton of double counting conflation
overlap in the data we've looked at.
Lone pooling and syndication creates
this messy octopus of interconnectedness
that we had to unravel a bit before we
could draw any types of lines and pencil
in some sizing here. So, as I mentioned
earlier, the ABF again that's pulled,
collateralized, and syndicated is about
5 trillion. I looked at a ton of sources
to try to size just true AL as a part of
that. And those estimates ranged, Aaron,
for 2025 anywhere from 700 to 900
billion. So just taking the midpoint
there, I think we can say with some
level of confidence that ABL is roughly
800 billion of the 2 and a.5 trillion of
private credit and arguably the fastest
growing. So as we alluded to earlier,
cash flow direct lending has become very
crowded. It's pushed GPS and LPs to look
for other sources of yield and fixed
returns. So there's significant demand
pull from capital allocators down the
value chain for these types of offering
for other exposures to credit. Further,
of course, the continued retrenchment of
banks from the space, especially after
the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank, has
further emboldened the private capital
firms to be aggressive here. However, as
we've tried to explain, this is a very
specialized form of finance that
requires deep technical subject matter
expertise, much more so than most forms
of credit. That's across a very narrow
and unique forms of collateral, as we
tried to explain. And we're going to
talk to Greg and to said about how they
think about the specialization of this.
But to do this well ABL, you can't just
build a group of credit generalists and
release them into the wild even if those
credit generalists have significant
experience in origination and
underwriting. And this is really
important these next couple sentences
because the key here is business model
intimacy, valuation competency in the
specific type of collateral the
borrowers are levering. Your team of
underwriting and valuation experts, as
you might imagine, are very different
looking professional profiles when
you're underwriting, say, life sciences
versus manufacturing equipment versus
Nvidia GPUs versus Bitcoin mining
equipment. Very different types of
individuals with very different
competency sets. And furthermore,
lenders are facing expensive and
increasing pressure to invest in data
analytics, cyber security, advanced
fintech tools that are enhancing the
decision-making, improving risk
assessment, and real time monitoring of
the assets that are the collateral to
really streamline the loan origination
process. So I mention all of this in a
bit of an aside as there are unique
pressures that add I would say an
inherent governor to the growth of AL
scarcity element that limits the
velocity of the segment at least the
velocity of quality capabilities and GPS
on the segment and that keeps the supply
demand dynamic very favorable for I
think experienced investors. Now despite
all of that most forecasts have that
growing to sound terribly contradictory
and very healthy kaggers. perhaps
unrealistic clips in my opinion for the
reasons I've just highlighted. So for
example, research and markets puts a
nearly 11% growth rate 10.7 growth rate
on it resulting in a $1.3 trillion
market by 2033. Business research
company is even more bullish using a
13%. Kagger resulting in 1.4 trillion as
early as 2029. And global market
insights also uses 11% resulting in it
reaching 1.5 trillion in 2032. And by
the way, if you're trying to do this
math at home, just stop. Don't try this
at home. These are not apples and
apples. As I mentioned earlier, the
starting points are all different. But I
think you can see we're at least in
adjacent zip codes across these research
houses. Whether you think they're a bit
too aggressive, which I do, they seem to
be concentrating around a certain low
singledigit type of kagger. So, as I
finish off, how about segmentation? From
a collateral standpoint, accounts
receivable ABL is now the largest type
at approximately 45% of total. Inventory
financing, the original would be next at
35%, equipment at 15, and there's this
long tail of others for the last few
percent. Unlike the earlier industrial
ages, small and medium-sized businesses
versus large are now dominant in ABL,
almost 2/3 of the total and growing. So
again, this is growth capital now, much
more so than it was desperation capital.
From an industry standpoint,
manufacturing, no surprise, is the
biggest user at almost a third of the
total. Healthcare perhaps surprisingly
is second and over 20%, retail and
wholesale is nearly 20%, high teens, and
tech is 15%. And then you see again this
long tale of construction, auto,
logistics, agriculture, and so on.
Origination still is owned by the banks
at about 40%. But private capital firms
have exploded here and are quickly
gaining share at over 30% now. So
Apollo, Blackstone, Aries, Sixth Street,
Oak Tree, Carlilele, KKR, HBS, these are
all household credit brands. They've all
made acquisitions and/or launch
dedicated platforms and funds really in
the last few years. This is really new
in many ways. Finally, on the geography
side, while the US still holds nearly
half of the global market, Asia,
interestingly, has been a region of very
high ABL growth, expected to close the
gap from its current 35% due to these
rapidly growing economies, particularly
in Southeast Asia, and quickly
developing infrastructure and
manufacturing supply chains that has
been I think supercharged postco as you
nearshore and diversify your supply
chain dependency across countries. China
itself now represents over 100 billion
in AL. The last couple other fun facts
here as you digest that segmentation is
that unlike direct lending, which is
nearly all floating rate loans, ABL is
2/3 fixed rate lending, ABL is also
typically represented, and I mentioned
this earlier if you picked it up, in
much shorter term facilities or
revolving lines of credit. So, they're
rarely direct term loans that dominate
the cash flow space. This is usually a
line of credit for lack of a better way
to phrase it. And that gives them an
average life of 1 to two years on
average versus perhaps triple that in
direct lending and of course five or six
times that in private equity. So in
summary, let's call this an $800 billion
segment that's led by the primary
profile of accounts receivable
collateral loans atmemes in
manufacturing in the US with fixed
shorter term revolving lines of credit.
That's your typical profile here. So
there you have it. You've got your
primer on the history and the current
status of ABL. So Aaron, I want to turn
to you to tease out these segments and
collateral types a bit more with a
different lens, a lens of how this
affects your investing thesis and your
approach to partnering with these GPS.
So Aaron, off to you. And John, just a
couple reactions just listening to you
talk. And I think most listeners know
this. We don't give each other what
we're about to say. So I'm learning this
in real time as John goes through some
of the history. I'm shocked that the US
is so small relative to direct lending.
That Asia presence being much larger.
When you look at like direct lending
now, I think it's somewhere around 80%
is US origination and then it's slowly
moved overseas. But were you surprised
by that half and half? On the one hand,
yes, for the reasons you've just cited
because private credit is overwhelmingly
westernbased currently. If you look at
just a stat on what percentage of banks
still are relied on for credit
facilities and as you know in the west
it's something like 70 80% now non-banks
are lending. Asia is the exact opposite.
So they're early. So if you look at the
private credit origination platforms
just generally in Asia they would still
be mezzanine desperation restructuring
non-performing loan type capabilities.
And the only thing to get to your
question that I'm thinking is that given
that the early stages of ABL typically
mirror those restructuring or bankruptcy
or trouble type of companies that my
guess is is that's why ABL is perhaps
exploding in Asia early. So I think just
a few things are coming together. The
stars are aligning for ABL to do quite
well in the current Asia space. Other
thing maybe more of an aside. had this
mental image of you going back in a time
machine and trying to explain trunching
to Gilgamesh and Henry VIIIth. So that
was fun as you were talking. I'm sure
that they'd be interested in your micro
credential on private credit. There you
go. Well, great. That was really
helpful, John. And I think previews some
of the things I'm going to talk about
from your perspective maybe a little bit
different perspective for me relative to
what you were sharing. But nevertheless,
this is a challenging place to define
and get your arms around just given some
of the different definitions and where
some of the assets lie. So what I'm
going to do is I'm going to walk through
the universe of AL and try to codify and
put some definitions around some of the
different collateral players that are
out there. I'm also going to talk
through banks versus private lenders.
John walked through some of the
different types of companies, but I
think some of the characteristics is
also important to differentiate between
where the private players play and where
the banks play. I'm also going to walk
through a little bit on structure and
mechanics of AL. And John, your intro
talking about mortgages, that's a great
preview for what I'm going to do there
as well. and then I will wrap up with a
little bit on some of the opportunities
and risk considerations for investors
moving forward. So on the universe of
ABL and the different players that are
out there, there's a couple of
categories and again this is not
all-encompassing and you may see some of
this in the direct origination space and
you may see it in the bank and the
syndicated space as well, but I want to
focus mostly on collateral and then we
can get into structure. So from my
perspective, there's really three main
groupings of ABL that's out there.
There's hard assets, there's balance
sheet assets, and then there's specialty
finance. And you can maybe trade between
each of these in terms of which one fits
within each one. But when you look at
hard assets, you're looking at, as the
name suggests, physical properties,
assets that are available to the
company. So that's things like real
estate, infrastructure, farmland,
timberland, and then commodities and
energy. getting into oil and some of the
raw materials that go into the business
and how the business operates. On the
balance sheet asset side, this is where
we get into some of the receivables, the
inventory, the equipment assets that are
held on the balance sheets of some of
these organizations that may be more
specific to different parts of their
operating model and their business
model. I found it odd in my prep that
often inventory was grouped in the
intangible space. And I guess I'm
probably thinking about a certain type
of inventory. You walk the factory floor
and there's widgets laying around which
is very tangible and kind of the old
school AL. But can you help me and the
listeners understand what the variations
of inventory that would label it
intangible would be? When I was thinking
about grouping this when you look at
card assets, so like you look at real
estate or an infrastructure project,
these are typically very specific pieces
of collateral. It's a specific property.
it's a specific project that's being
done. When you look at the balance sheet
assets like an inventory or equipment,
it's usually based on a collection. So,
I think it's less about physical versus
financial and it's more about a grouping
of some of the assets that are backing
that particular loan. That may not be
the right way to think about it, but
that's how I group this within a balance
sheet context instead of a physical hard
asset context. Okay, that's helpful.
Thanks. So, the one other thing that we
didn't talk about is nav lending. So, a
lot of what we focused on here on the
balance sheet side are companies that
are operating and trying to get loans
based on their collateral. Well, we're
actually seeing fund managers and GPS
that are using this facility to raise
funds to help them through the cycle of
making commitments and exits and
potentially reinvesting in some of those
different portfolio companies. And
that's a unique maybe more esoteric
asset that's being backed by loans but
sits on the balance sheet of the GP if
you will. On the specialy finance side
you've got more esoteric assets. So this
is things like consumer finance which
includes credit card loans, SoFi,
personal loans if you will and then this
whole revolution of buy now pay later
which I'll get into as well. A lot of
ABF tends to play in this space but
you're seeing more and more direct
platforms as well. You also have
royalties, health care, R&D, some of the
things that you mentioned, John, before.
And then finally is these insurance
contracts and policies. So life
settlements and reinsurance, catastrophe
bonds, and so on. So there is an asset
backing it up. It just happens to be a
insurance contract instead of something
physical. So if it's not obvious, this
is clearly not the same as what we see
in the cash flow-based lending space.
Cash flow-based lending tends to look at
the entire company and their ability to
repay the loan, whereas the assetbased
lenders are looking all at the
collateral and the collateral that's
backing that specific loan. And you can
see that it gets very very esoteric very
quickly. So, as John mentioned, some of
these categories originated at the bank.
So, I think it's essential to
differentiate who plays where today.
Where are the banks making these loans
versus where are some of these private
lenders making these loans? And this is
a really tough delineation to make. It's
not as clean as saying the banks are
here and the private lenders are here.
So, we can't really divide the world up
in that way, but you can do it based on
some characteristics. And I think there
are some clear differentiations that you
see between preferences between these
two different types of lenders. So banks
tend to lend to more investment grade
and asset heavy companies whereas
private lenders are willing to go down
below investment grade maybe take on
more complex situations and may lend to
companies that don't have as much
physical assets backing some of these
different loans. So this lends itself to
the different types of collateral types.
So banks tend to be focused much more on
hard assets and more standard balance
sheet assets like receivables and
inventory where you can bring it all
together and make a loan based on a
collection of assets. Whereas private
lenders, they may operate in this space
as well, but they might take on some of
those more specific complex esoteric
assets like receivables that are more
specific to a particular area,
royalties, which are much more
challenging, intellectual property,
certain types of equipment, and then
again those nav loans that I mentioned
as well. Now, in terms of structure,
banks tend to follow this originate to
distribute model, which means that they
tend to go into securitized products,
which means that they're much larger and
much more standardized in nature. So,
banks are working within a box, if you
will, and they've got to check a bunch
of things within the box so they can
then distribute it to an SPV, which then
can be securitized. So, this is where
the asset based finance or asset back
finance tends to show up. Private
lenders, as we've talked about, are much
more bespoke and are willing to go much
smaller in terms of size and scale. So,
as you can imagine, greater complexity,
higher yields, and greater flexibility
tends to exist in the private lender
space. And the opposite is typically
true in terms of what you see in the
banking space. The other thing that I'll
say here is there's a lot more intensive
monitoring that takes place from the
private lenders relative to the banks,
which I'll get into with an example. A
related thought here and the evolution
John that you were walking through is
that the banks and the private lenders
are actually increasingly working
together. So this is not a clear again
delineation between those two lenders.
So in some cases you may have a bank and
a private lender split an opportunity
and they'll play where they are most
appropriate where the bank is much more
risk conscious and the private lender is
able to take on some of those different
esoteric characteristics or maybe a
particular asset for the private lender
whereas a more generalized asset might
support the bank lender. So let's talk a
little bit about the structure and the
mechanics of assetbased lending. So in
assetbased private credit, it's
impossible to talk about any of this
without talking about the collateral.
We've talked about it quite a bit, but
the collateral drives so much of the
decision-m for those private lenders. So
lenders in this space are laser focused
on assessing the collateral value of the
assets for the loan. And that tends to
be based on a percentage. So getting
that LTV, the loan to value ratio,
right, is so important. But more
important is the V, the denominator. how
do I actually assess the value of the
asset that I'm lending against? And
typically, there's a whole process that
goes into this, but even more so to give
themselves cover and a safety net.
Typically, the loan is not 100% of that
asset's value. It's much lower than
that. And depending on the riskiness of
the asset could be even lower than
certain other types of assets. So,
typically the owner or the company has
to make up financing elsewhere. That
could be their own equity. It could be
through bank financing and it could be
through direct lending. Again, these are
multiple parts of a capital structure.
So, the assetbased lender is not the
only lender for the overall
organization. Typically, these assets
are also cash flow generating
themselves. And that could be directly
like receivables where you're waiting on
money to come in and you're just waiting
on that cash flow to re-enter the
company so you can distribute it back to
the loan or they're somehow tied to a
revenue generating activity. So at least
having a form of liquidation value in
the event payments can't be met is
important because if you're not getting
that cash flow, then the asset is
somewhat worthless. And again, I'll get
into an example here in a second. So, an
extreme way to put this, John, is that
the lender doesn't actually really care
about the borrower's prospects as an
overall company in many ways, maybe with
the exception of how it actually impacts
the assets themselves. They just care
about the collateral. What is the
collateral actually delivering at the
end of the day? I think that's where
Aaron, my mortgage example breaks down
because any of you out there that have
gone through it doesn't sit in one camp
or the other. I mean, they go through
your income generative capabilities with
a fine tooth comb just as explicitly and
carefully as they send the appraiser out
to look at the underlying collateral.
So, I use that just as an introduction,
but you're right, true ABL is much more
extreme in their laser focus to your
point. No, absolutely. And actually,
that's a really good segue in terms of
how to structure the loan. And I will
use the mortgage analogy. I had a
breakdown of how this might actually
work with the full caveat that you just
made that it's somewhere in the middle
in some ways. Asset based lending again
is very laser focused on collateral.
Maybe not so much focused on the overall
cash flow generating capabilities, but I
do think that the analogy is helpful in
understanding some of those
characteristics. So, I also think it's
helpful because John and I have both
recently purchased new homes. So, this
might bring up some bad memories. I
don't know. This is not investment
advice and certainly not advice in terms
of what rate to get because I think I
top tick that perfectly. So don't listen
to me in terms of when to buy a house by
any means. So when you buy a new house
and let's use this mortgage analogy and
we'll beat it to death, but I do think
it is very helpful to think through
this. There are some critical things
that the lender and you as the borrower
have to talk about in exchange for
structuring a mortgage. So I mentioned
the LTV and the asset. There's a whole
discussion around the value of the home
and how much you're going to put up
versus how much the lender is going to
provide you. The lender does not or the
bank in this instance does not give you
100% of the home value. You've got to
put up some level of equity and of
course show that there's cash flow
that's going to go towards repaying that
loan. Unless we're in 2009, in which
case the lender gives you 120% loan to
value, but we'll park that. We won't
talk about that. Yeah, that's bad vibes.
But yeah, you're exactly right. And this
is where you can get into trouble. How
much are you giving relative to the
actual value? And I don't know about
you, John, but when I go to a bank and
I'm asking, how much can I afford?
They're giving me two times what I
actually want to pay. So maybe there's a
bit of moral hazard there that exists as
well. But you do have to put equity in
skin in the game in a normal environment
outside of 2008. The other thing here is
that your house is the collateral and
there's a constant monitoring that takes
place. So, it's not like you just buy
the house and then you never hear from
anyone ever again. There's annual
appraisals. There's monitoring that
takes place to make sure that the home
itself actually holds its value. So,
banks might do this less frequently. For
me, as the borrower on the house,
typically it's annual or maybe every
couple of years where they're assessing
the value of the home. Lenders in the
private space when you've got a specific
asset are doing this constantly.
Sometimes that's property and equipment
and then other times it's looking at the
aging of receivables and the likelihood
of that repayment. It's a much more
frequent appraisal that's taking place.
But there is that ongoing let's look at
the underlying asset and are we actually
going to get repaid at the end of the
day. There's also the amortizing and
self-liquidating nature of a loan and a
qualified mortgage. It's an amortizing
loan. So you are repaying principal and
interest at the same time which is
pretty typical for a lot of assetbased
loans. So unlike direct lending or cash
flow-based lending where you're paying
interest over a time period and then a
large bullet payment at the end of that
term, the assetbased loan is being paid
down as you go. Very much like what we
see in mortgages. And then of course if
you're in the unfortunate situation of
default or foreclosure, if I don't make
my payment, the bank has that house as
collateral and they can come in and
seize it, repossess it, and make
themselves whole. And similarly, private
lenders have that capability. although
we'll get into a couple of examples
where that's really important to pay
attention to in terms of how they can
actually acquire that particular asset.
So, it's a very large and general
oversimplification.
And again, there's a lot of caveats that
come into the mix. But if you think of
ABL as a mortgage and some of those
characteristics, think of ABL as like a
mortgage, but it's on a constantly
changing pool of properties, if you
will. That revolver that John mentioned,
you're constantly re-uping those
particular loans. But again, like a
mortgage, if the value of those assets
does drop or there's impairments, the
lender does ultimately step in. Aaron,
I'm curious. Maybe you're going to cover
this, but I talked about the very varied
and diverse needs for different
competencies based upon which
collateral. So, where are these private
capital firms and the banks finding
collateral experts on these eclectic
forms of collateral? Obviously, they've
got a long history and there's an entire
cottage industry. They actually
commission to an appraisal and there's
some sense in which there's a conflict
of interest. the banks actually can't
have these people employed. So, I'm
curious, are these employees, these
valuation experts? Are they third-party
big five accountants? Are they
specialist healthcare, life sciences
valuation experts? Where do these people
come from? Yeah, it's a really good
question and it gets to some of the due
diligence considerations as well. I
would say, John, it's a bit of a mix and
again it depends on the collateral. If
you're talking about healthcare,
intellectual property and royalties or
R&D, you clearly need someone that's got
a healthcare background or a science
background that's going to be able to
help you think through some of that.
They may or may not be a collateral
expert by any means, but having that
subject matter expertise is important,
but a lot of these organizations will
also rely on third parties. So whether
that's big four accountant firms or
specialists that are in this area, it's
a bit of a mix. But the bottom line is
that typically I guess the ones that do
it right have many more people whether
that's employees directly or it's a
network of people that can help them
through that assessment. It's a lot more
than what you might typically see in a
traditional private direct lending
underwriting process. So it's really
really important. If you get into
consumer finance for example you need
someone who understands behavior FICO
scores. It gets really specific really
fast. might be a little bit easier when
you get into things like real estate or
infrastructure because that might be
more of a general area of expertise,
subject matter expertise for a lot of
investors, but the bottom line is the
headcount, whether direct or indirect,
is much higher than what you see in more
traditional direct lending. So, John,
that's a good segue into due diligence.
So, we talked about expertise and
background. I think that's an important
consideration. Again, we see a lot of
money in direct lending and there's a
lot of people moving into direct
lending, but that doesn't mean that the
skill sets in direct lending translate
completely over to what you see in the
assetbased lending space. So, we talked
about getting that expertise on board
and employed or as part of the process
as a third party. So, that's one. Second
is sourcing capabilities. And this is
not unique necessarily to ADL and you
see it in direct lending as well,
traditional public credit as well. But
where are the actual assets and deals
coming from? And what we've started to
see that 800 billion that you mentioned
is not large, but as people start to
move more and more into this space, you
see people who have been at it or firms
that have been at it for a very long
time that have built up their ability to
source opportunities and build a network
of deals. And then you've got newcomers
that might rely more so on the banks. So
some of these banks are distributing
directly to private lenders. So where is
the sourcing coming from? And where does
that expertise come into play? As I
mentioned, it's much more hands-on in
the private space than what you might
see in the banking space. So if you're
getting deals that have checked a couple
boxes, that's a question that you should
be asking. The other thing here is again
the collateral value and sensitivity. So
to your question on valuation, how do
you actually value this stuff? going
through that process of internal versus
external that's very critical. The other
thing I mentioned the Bitcoin example
which is a good one but what is the
actual sensitivity to the economy to
esoteric events that are happening you
mentioned the Nvidia example are you
actually going to run into what we call
wrongway risk so despite the fact that
your loans are performing well if the
parent company is not that's where you
start to get into trouble so we've seen
examples of this mentioned Bitcoin but
energy as well if you've got loans that
are tied to the price of oil that can be
very challenging even if the particular
asset is doing Well, if the company
can't pay you and make you whole, that's
a challenge as well. And then there's
fraud and collectibility. So, this is
really important. Again, collateral is
so key when making these decisions. So,
when issuing a loan, you have to make
sure that the collateral is actually
there at the end of the day, which
requires a bit more hands-on due
diligence. It might actually require
physical trips to ensure and as an LP,
ensuring that the capabilities are there
from your GP. So, there are two examples
that I want to mention here. One of the
biggest assetbased lending frauds in
recent history was with a company called
Arena Television which worked on the
Glastonbury Music Festival, the Six
Nations Rugby and the Euro 2020 football
championship. So media company had a lot
of equipment and they needed money. They
needed cash flow and so they went and
borrowed almost 300 million British
pounds from 20 different lenders and it
was all supposedly backed up by the
company's equipment. But when it came to
verification and getting their money
back, turned out that none of the
equipment existed in the first place. So
that's a challenge that's not good for
those particular lenders. So that's an
extreme example on a corporate side. A
more recent example is again this rise
of buy now pay later in consumer
finance. So while physical assets may
back some of these financing options,
others aren't or have assets that are
hard to seize in the event of default.
John, I don't know about you, but if you
go to Chipotle, you can do buy now pay
later layer. It's not like they can
seize your burrito if you don't make
that payment. So, there's a lot of risk
in terms of some of the collateral. And
Garp actually released an article that
showed the delinquency rates of buy now
pay later versus regular lending
practices like credit cards and so on.
And they found that it was about three
to five times higher than what you see
in traditional lending sources. So you
have to be very careful about partnering
with some of these platforms because you
may not get your money back and you may
not have collateral to seize at the end
of the day. So when you zoom in and this
will be a final thought before turning
back to you John but when you zoom in
there's a lot of differentiation in why
LPs and investors are interested in this
space. You mentioned a lot of the
crowding that we see in direct lending
that's taking place. I think that's a
very real challenge for a lot of
investors. hear anecdotes about the same
direct lenders competing for the same
deals and that brings in spreads. It
causes covenants to lighten up to be
competitive and so I think investors are
trying to find other ways to continue to
expose themselves to private credit but
do so in a more thoughtful manner. So
that's important to mention. Collateral
again you've got exposures to different
parts of the real economy. There could
be inflation sensitivities in there that
could differentiate your return sourcing
liquidity and duration. Some of these,
as you mentioned, are revolvers. They're
shorter in duration. They're
advertising. You're getting your money
back sooner and more frequently than you
might in a bullet loan. Risk management,
again, because there's a collateral
element attached to a lot of these
loans. They tend to be much more
structured, have many more covenants and
safeguards that are put in place. But I
think more importantly, this is a
diversifier within your private credit
allocation. To your very beginning early
comments, John, I don't know that I
would call this an asset class, but
there's certainly credit characteristics
that exist, but still you can diversify
around your traditional public credit
and your direct lending allocation. So,
lot to think about, lots of ways to
define this, but hopefully that
scratches the surface before we meet
with our guests. I'd also double down on
your point about the crowdedness that I
mentioned earlier too of direct lending
and just the interest and curiosity and
diversifying your credit book out a bit
into these AL type strategies. You've
also got the return with ZERP going
away, zero interest rate environment
going away. You've also got the return
of traditional public fixed income. So
there's a lot of headwinds for direct
lending. direct lending exploded out of
this need for where am I going to put do
you remember when we used to say what's
the other 40 where's your 40 going you
remember those conversations when
there's no yield in your portfolio and
pensions have to deliver a 7% actuarial
rate where are you getting at least the
more stable form or portion of that
return and that's why there was this
voracious sprint towards other forms
like direct lending and now you're
starting to see those options and
choices open back up. One thing we
didn't talk about is rates relatively
given the both perceived and real nature
of the risk profile of a AL. I don't
even want to say the average AL because
there is no average AL as this whole
episode is suggested, but on average
these tend to be slightly lower rates
given that the profile of the credit as
determined by the lender is slightly
better and lighter than a direct
lending, a cash flow loan. Am I right
about that? Yeah, it's really hard to
pinpoint. I thought about trying to
generalize that, but I've seen some
performance measures of you can kind of
expect maybe 200 maybe 300 basis points
above public high yield credit, but I
think that changes when you get more
complex. I mean, clearly if you're
looking at real estate, it's going to be
very different than healthcare R&D, if
you will. But it's a wide margin. But
yes, I think lower than direct lending,
which I don't think is such a bad thing
in some ways. is I mean I know on its
face low double-digit yields is
attractive but you see some of the
cracks with pick interest picking up and
amend and extend taking place. So you
might be giving up a little bit on the
yield of face value but yeah somewhere
between your traditional public credit
and direct lending. Yeah. Well, this is
the catch 22 that younger or cash
starved or cash delayed businesses to
use some of the language you used face
is that you can't run an economy on 12
13% cost of capital. And so the whole
point as we said of a lot of the newer
ABL is to spread and challenge and
protect their working capital. And if
you end up just stretching your P&L even
further with debt expense, then you've
shot yourself in the foot. So, they do
seem to have found a nice middle ground
for rates based again upon the downside,
the known downside given that you've got
collateral associated with these loans
versus cash flow. So, exactly. Well,
Erin, that was fantastic. I do think
we're going to need to leave it there
and just returning to where we started.
So, hopefully that was a good overview,
a good fly over of where we are with ABL
and some of the specifics and
implications for how to think about it
as an investor. And we are now going to
move to a quick halftime episode and
after that we'll be back with said and
with Greg. So stay tuned.
Well, welcome back to our halftime
segment and I am just delighted to be
joined now in studio by Matt Brancado
who is the head of alternative sales at
Franklin Templeton. Matt, welcome to
Capital Decanted. John, thank you.
Pleasure to be with you today. Well, as
you know, Matt, and listeners, as you
know, we've been spending some time with
different segments of the Franklin
Temple Tim machinery, and I'm actually
been really looking forward to this one,
Matt, because it's going to be a bit of
a postcards from the pavement. What are
you actually hearing? So, Matt, maybe
I'll start with the proverbial
intimidation topic. What is it that you
hear most that clients, prospective
clients or those that are already
allocating to alts are challenged with,
are intimidated with these issues that
they can't seem to get through? I've
been blessed to work with financial
adviserss for over 20 years with the
goal of helping them build better
portfolios through the use of
alternative investments. And when I
think about the main challenges and
roadblocks that many advisers have when
it comes to allocating to alternatives,
they all center around some form of
educational or expectation gap. And
these gaps are what I like to call my
three lessons learned about these
challenges that have been constant
throughout my career in alternatives. So
lesson one, in order to have a
productive conversation about
alternatives, whether it's sponsor to
advisor or advisor to client, you need
to be speaking the same language. And I
think that's a roadblock. A simple
highle conversation on the role and
benefits of alternatives in a portfolio
can lead to confusion if you're not
defining exactly what you're talking
about. And at Franklin Templeton, we
define alternatives as private markets,
hedge strategies, and digital assets. So
you need to have a shared language. I
think lesson two, alternatives are just
tools. Like all investments in a
portfolio, alternatives are designed to
achieve a desired outcome in an asset
allocation. So no different than stocks
or bonds. Sure, the pathway to the
results, John, are a little different
with concepts and constraints like ili
liquidity or the structures may be
different like a limited partnership
drawdown or a perpetually offered
strategy. But hesitancy and intimidation
quickly fall away when advisors shift
their perspective on alternatives from
different asset classes or funds to
viewing them as a means to achieve a
desired goal. And then lastly, and this
isn't necessarily unique to alternative
investments, but really the human
condition. Lesson three is people
typically allocate to what they wish
they would have allocated to 12, 18, 24
months ago. And this is really where the
power of alternative investment
education plays such an important role
in private wealth. In addition, it also
stresses the value of partnering with
the right asset managers, the right
partners so they can help in identifying
early cycle opportunities. So those are
really the biggest roadblocks to three
lessons learned. Yeah, those are
fantastic. Matt, you certainly are
preaching to the choir here on a couple
things. We've been very vocal about
leading with purpose and portfolio fit
instead of product wrapper or product
design. I think many will miss the point
and that conversation typically goes
south when you're talking about the
product specs as if they're on a used
car lot and you're trying to explain
this air conditioning versus this
upgrade versus this package and instead
what are you trying to accomplish by
actually potentially including this in
your portfolio. So obviously education
is our bread and butter. So love that
you're leading with that and I know
we've been a part of that as well. Matt,
maybe the other side of this you talked
about 12 to 18 months out there. They're
starting to get a little bit of
backwardlooking desire to have chosen a
little bit earlier. So in your
conversations now, what are they jazzed
about that in 18 months those that don't
choose are going to be coming back to
you and saying, "Man, I wish I would
have allocated back then." This is
really where my passion and my team's
passion comes to the forefront. We want
to help advisers with early cycle
opportunities and I think that the tenor
in the industry is changing because
advisers are rallying around this
concept of early cycle opportunities. So
at Franklin Templeton, we're seeing
excitement around asset classes like
private equity and how to simplify that
access for private wealth investors. So
things like private equity secondaries,
we're starting to see the environment
shift to private real estate debt
lending into real estate assets, things
like private equity co-investments and
digital assets. And while at first
glance those are all very different
asset classes, I think, John, the common
thread is they all have long-term
structural shifts in these particular
areas of private markets. and they're
paired with something that I've seen
over time that there's an immediate
supply demand imbalance of the
opportunity set and the capital that's
available to take advantage of it. I
think that's what we're most excited
about and I think it's being
wellreceived by advisors. They're
getting excited about it. Well, good to
hear. Certainly, the product
proliferation is happening at a frantic
pace and it's good to hear that the
dialogues are much more focused on fit
and bespoke need and purpose as we
talked about earlier. So Matt, so
thankful for your brief time with us and
keep it up. We loved the angle and the
approach and the anchor to making sure
the clients interests are put first.
Thanks for joining Capital Decanted and
listeners, stay tuned for our guest
segment.
Well, welcome back to Capital Decanted.
And as promised, now in studio, we have
Cedric Henley, partner and chief risk
officer of specialty finance at SLR
Capital Partners. It's a private credit
asset manager with over 13 billion of
investable capital. And said is joined
by Greg Turk, deputy CIO, head of
private markets of the 13 billion, also
conveniently same number, Illinois
police officers pension investment fund.
Said and Greg, welcome to Capital
Decanted. Thank you for having me. Thank
you. It's great to be here. All right.
Well, as most of you know, this show
often consists of coming of age stories,
the kind of evolution of topics, of
asset classes, of strategies, and this
one was no different. And it echoed, as
I can remember, at least from my
perspective, some of the work we've done
on things like secondaries or GP stakes
that started off with a very different
motivation in mind and grew into a
necessary tool in the tool set for
modern finance and modern capital
allocation. And I think as you'll see
over the course of this discussion, this
will be much more of the same. So I want
to start with a little bit of
retrospective to try to help fill in the
history that Aaron and I attempted to
tell in our intro section. So said, I'm
going to start with you if you don't
mind. We did a private credit strategy
more generally last season. And as with
all flavors of private credit, they
really originated in the banking sector
quite a long time ago and particularly
in this case regional banks. And often
those loans are secured by hard assets
as we know, real estate, equipment, etc.
But in recent years, we've seen a lot of
this regional bank activity and
dominance shift to private market
origination platforms like yourself. Can
you tell us a little bit about the
reasons and the catalyst for that
evolution? Sure. It's a very astute
observation and really one of the
drivers that you've seen this transition
and if you look at cash flow loans, it's
somewhat similar but AL is a nuance onto
itself and really one of the main
drivers relative to this transition to
private capital has come about from the
regulatory framework that regional banks
and even money center banks operate in.
And when you have borrowers who either
have a short-term issue relative to
their income statement, maybe they're
undergoing a transition, there's a
reason why they need further liquidity.
The banks in their regulatory
environment really struggle with that
type of a borrower. And so really,
you've seen private credit step in and
fill the void relative to that. I guess
the other makeover or evolution has been
in the spirit of the popular shows where
either homes or individuals or
reputations are made over. There's been
many ways in which this has taken on a
new form. It's been resurrected ABL that
is for a very different purpose. I think
it started and you correct me if I've
misread this history as a bit of a
lender of last resort. If direct
lending, traditional cash flow lending
was unavailable for whatever reason,
whether too early in life cycle stage or
cash flows weren't particularly
dependent enough based upon the lender,
you relied on, you were desperate and
moved to basically levering your asset
base. Now, this seems like it has
entered traditional flexible risk
controlled financing tool set as I've
alluded to at the beginning. Tell us
about that parallel perception evolution
as well. It is correct. It used to be
10, 15, 20 years ago, you went the AL
route because you didn't really have the
availability of the cash flow route or
other liquidity triggers. Really, where
it's sort of morphed itself into is
there's still obviously that aspect of
it. there is an aspect of ABL that
hasn't gone completely away. But really
where it's begun to morph more and more
to is for not only privatelyowned or
public companies, but also sponsorback
companies that want to generate
incremental liquidity away from their
cash flow structures. This is a great
way to do that. If you have accounts
receivable and inventory, it is a
simpler way to put that in place because
you're really driving your liquidity
based on your working capital as opposed
to waiting for cash flow metrics. So,
it's really become a solution provider
as opposed to this last resort.
Companies are almost on their desk
doorstep here. Capital solution. It
really has moved that way and we see a
tremendous amount of flow coming not
only from strategic corporateowned
companies but also private equity
entities that are looking for liquidity.
They're looking to do something
strategic. It can be a great solution
for those and that's really a change. So
SA I want to pick up a little bit on
some of the evolution that you walk
through. So we've talked a little bit
about the lender of last resort
evolution. We've talked about the growth
of assetbased lending in general. I
think one of the other dimensions of
this is the collateral itself. And when
you look historically 10, 15 years ago,
maybe it was real estate that was
dominating and equipment and so on. But
as you look more recently, it seems like
that menu of different collateral
options has expanded quite considerably
onto balance sheets, royalties,
healthcare, all sorts of different
options that are backing these loans. So
maybe we can matrix this a little bit,
but could you talk through the evolution
of the collateral that's now available
backing the loans and then in particular
where private markets and private
lending comes into the equation versus
maybe the more traditional banks that
have been there historically. Yeah. And
you mentioned a couple of interesting
areas where AL has really started to
rise and that's from the different
assets that are available. There's
always the traditional working capital,
accounts receivable and inventory.
There's the equipment finance and real
estate that you mentioned. But there's
also drug royalty which is a big portion
of the health care market etc. That's in
essence an ABL loan where you're banking
on the future cash flow streams and
looking at the cash flow stream. That is
something that's relatively new. And if
you look at it as well, you could think
about a lot of recurring revenue
software company deals. that really is
an ABL deal that's being structured like
a cash flow loan as well where you're
counting on recurring revenues and
basing your loan off of what that
recurring revenue stream is going to be.
So again, that's another new entrance
into what I would think of as the AL
market. And I think one of the things
that you've seen in private credit is
most of the private credit guys that are
doing APL such as SLR, you also see them
have the ability to do equipment finance
because the two go hand inand. And you
want to have that arrow in your quiver
that when somebody comes to you, maybe
you're not so crazy about the assets on
an ABL, but you know what, you really
like the equipment that they own or the
real estate that they own. So you really
have to have in private credit all these
various methodologies in place to really
offer a complete solution. So it really
has matured and I think again it goes
back to the banks have challenges with a
lot of these different asset classes.
It's really hard for them to lend money.
And the other thing relative to AL
that's really interesting and why
private credit makes a great partner for
banks is that we're asset gatherers. We
are really focused on assets and asset
growth. We want assets. On the other
hand, banks historically, they have been
ones of syndicating risk. Whether it's a
cash flow loan, an AVL loan, you pick
it. They're in the business of
syndicating risk, but what they do like
is deposits. Well, ABL in partnering
with banks like we do, there are
structures that you can come up with
where, hey, they'll keep the cash
deposits because we obviously don't want
cash deposits. We're not a bank, but
we'll take the assets. And so we're
constantly having these dialogues with
banks and quite frankly seeing
opportunities where ABL can potentially
really enure to us in terms of the
assets. The bank can keep the deposits
because at the end of the day they
really want deposits. They want that
capital base to support themselves. One
thing that's really interesting to me,
we talked a little bit about it in the
intro, but this idea of differentiating
between ultimately syndication flows out
from the bank, meaning moving it off of
their balance sheet, trunching it,
syndicating it. Do private market
origination platforms do much or any of
that? Does SLR do any of that? Great
question, John. We do not. So, we're not
good buyers off of bank desks. There's
really nowhere on the SLR platform that
we look at that. And one of the main
reasons, and this is really across all
of our strategies, is we have a pretty
long track record of we do our own
diligence. We do things in conjunction
with the owners of the business, whether
that's a private equity sponsor or a
company, and we do things handinand.
Putting an intermediary right in between
that, it just never really worked well
for us. And I think a lot of AL folks
that are on the private credit side, I'd
venture that that's probably similar.
And honestly, the private markets, and
you've seen this in the cash flow side
as well, we're much better at clubbing
with our frenemies than we are doing
something with a bank. And we like it
when the frenemies are us big investors
through co-invest and generous
economics. So, yeah, there's a way for,
let's call it, a smaller, larger
contingent to benefit from Cedric's
work. And Greg brings up a great point
that is growing dramatically. Five years
ago that wasn't the case. Now it is the
case. So that when we have investors and
LP relationships like Greg, one of the
conversations now is co-invest and
that's a big part of the conversation.
So said in addition to maybe the friend
of me lines, so obviously working with
banks on some of these things. Are there
places where you're actually competing
with banks and making some of those
direct loans? Are there places where
they're playing that you're also playing
or is it a pretty clear delineation
between the two? I wish it was clearer.
It's not really clear, but if a bank
wants to come in and offer sofur plus
150, no private credit shop's going to
meet that. When you start to get a
little bit more gray is when you get
into the sofur 400ish area, 375 400,
then it starts to get a little bit gray.
Obviously, above that, that's private
credit world. So, you do have this
little bit of a gray in the middle area.
And a lot of times in these ABL deals,
the natural takeout is a bank. the
company will get through whatever issue,
the liquidity will clear up, things will
improve, and the natural takeout will be
a bank. Not dissimilar from a cash flow
loan where maybe they started at five
and a half times and they paid it down
to four times and the company's grown
dramatically and they're going to go do
a BSL. It's the same thing. So, going
back to the evolution of collateral, so
you've now got this wider opportunity
set that's out there and each of these
different pieces of collateral and
assets are all different in different
ways. It's structured differently. So, I
would imagine obviously the underwriting
process is challenging, but I would
think that the default process is even
more so relative to a cash flow-based
loan where companies might be able to
get a little bit more creative in terms
of how they make you whole or partially
whole relative to your original
commitment. So, could you just talk
through the process that you guys see
across those different collateral pieces
and what that process is like to
actually collect and make yourselves
whole during a challenging period?
Honestly, we do do both SLR cash flow
and ABL. So, we have a good vantage
point to speak to what's the differences
are. And a lot of ABL quite frankly, the
real work begins once you've booked the
loan because you're getting a borrowing
base on your assets quite frequently.
You have to review those borrowing
bases. You need to ensure that the
company has sufficient liquidity. You
need to constantly monitor borrowing
bases. On the cash flow side, you
generally after you close a loan, your
interactions you get maybe you get a
monthly statement, but generally you're
getting quarterly financial statements.
If you have a covenant, you're getting a
covenant compliance record. So the
monitoring of an ongoing cash flow loan
is much different than AVL. It's very
intensive and you're constantly in AL
world. That's one of the reasons why you
have so many people. For us with 13
billion, we have over 300 people
predominantly on the assetbased lending
side is the majority because of all the
nuances and checking that goes into ABL.
So it really begins after and it comes
from years and years of experience.
Again, we have cash flow and I did cash
flow for the first 20 years of my
career. Now I've been doing ABL for the
last 15. But for the cash flow side, the
diligence process, we all know what the
diligence process is. On the AL side,
you're really looking at working with
not only the company, there's two really
big points. You're looking at what the
liquidation value of the assets that
you're working on. You need to determine
either from an in-house appraiser or an
outsourced appraiser what that
liquidation value is going to be at
closing and then you're updating that
constantly. The other thing you're also
looking at in terms of AL is you're
really looking at the company's ability
to report that information to you on a
very timely accurate manner because it
is the old cliche of garbage in garbage
out. If they can't report to you or they
can't get you the information timely,
it's really hard to do an ABL. So really
those two things go hand in hand and
you're constantly monitoring those after
you've closed the loan and after you're
working with a company. And really in
ABL land, your covenant package and your
structuring is tighter than you're going
to see on a cash flow side. So you are
going to get a lot of footfalls and
that's by nature. You want to make sure
when you're in AL world because you're
really depending on those values. You
really want to make sure that you're not
going to get the phone call on a
Thursday night saying, "Hey, I can't
make payroll. I need to over advance."
Which is really that's the Achilles heel
when you start doing that over advance.
That's the problem with ABL. A lot of
questions there. It's to the heart of
what we do every day. The hardest thing
with being an allocator and I've been an
allocator 20 plus years now. Every day
you have more. You have more options. 30
years ago when I got out of school felt
like there were maybe five or six
options. Now you have five or six
options just within ABL. So the long and
short of it is nobody is arguing or
nobody's really having a conversation
whether private debt or private credit
broadly is worth having an allocation
to. In 2009 all of a sudden the asset
class really opened up when public debt
rates went down. All of a sudden you
needed to find a premium and private
debt supplied that. So the industry
overall the private debt sector from an
allocator's perspective is still only
about 15 years old and the first mover
was probably the easy move and I think
said mentioned this with cash flow
lending it's a very understandable
metrics the metrics are very
understandable a lot of it has to do
also with understanding a lot of its
private equity back so you understand
the sponsors that are largely
personified in a portfolio and that was
an easy first move and a lot of
allocators moved a lot of capital that
way and they waited on ABL because
exactly what you said understanding the
liquidation value metric. Not only did
we have to understand what Cedric meant
by liquidation value for receivables,
but we had to understand the third
parties that they were working with to
truly get a feel for what that
collateral was worth. So, it's one of
those step functions that it's a little
I think harder to understand. And then
there's a scalability issue. In 2009, I
was working with a $65 billion plan and
cash flow lending through $2 billion
fund was easier to get an allocation
size whereas the AL profiles then were a
little bit smaller, a little bit more
niche. You didn't have all the size that
you have now. So, I think the
understanding is there now from the LP
community in terms of what AL due
diligence really means. And there's
plenty of my peers that are probably
growing their portfolios a lot faster
than we are here at the police at this
stage. But I think the metrics are just
better known. And the other thing is to
Cedric's point on domain expertise. The
checklist for understanding the analysis
on the collateral, but then also setting
up the infrastructure that's 10 years.
We really only want to invest with
institutions that have really been doing
this for 10 years, have a great
database, have the relationships already
built, have the network, and that takes
time. So, I think all of that has come
together in the last 2 or 3 years to
really make ABL look extremely
attractive. But I think it is a little
bit of a harder diligence that has kept
people away. And honestly, the returns
in cash flow lending had been so good
that I think people were just repeating
that until about three years ago when
all of a sudden it really felt like
middle market cash flow lending was
getting very crowded. So, Greg, I want
to double click on the diligence topic
just a slightly more. But before I do
that, I want to maybe ask you a little
bit more cuz I'm curious. When you think
about the underlying collateral of some
of these loans, they could be
duplicative with other parts of your
larger portfolio. So, let's take the
obvious one, real estate. So, you've got
inflation hedge built in there. Perhaps
you have geographic plays or angles or
even risk control that you've got
through your real estate book. There's
other themes that you're playing through
your real estate book. Those could be
duplicated, replicated in your ABL
credit book as well. So how do you think
about avoiding that unintended
duplication? As an allocator, you can
take one of two positions. You can
really try to understand all the
underlying loans and industries and
metrics within your portfolio and keep
them apart. Or you can just understand
that there's a lot of different methods.
Middle market companies need financing
and we like when they have a lot of
options and then we like looking at what
we think is the best option not just
from a cost of capital standpoint but
from a long 75year
horizon. So to answer your question
there's going to be some overlap and
real estate the real estate and markets
can often be the poster child for that.
I think what we like about ABL and what
we find with the platforms within ABL
that we really like, it's a tighter
relationship with that end collateral
and that end company. And I think Cedric
went into this a little bit more, but
ABL is a little bit more structured. And
we like that structured part because it
takes that credit risk that we know
we're underwriting to. And it maybe it
doesn't get rid of it, but your all-in
return profile now comes a little bit
more from the structuring and Cedric
uses the technical term footfalls. When
companies their whatever levels reach a
certain amount, they have to call Cedric
up. Maybe he gets some money. Maybe he
has to renegotiate stuff. Those are
tighter than cash flow loans. cash flow
loans, there's usually a wide margin of
error. So, you're getting paid, you're
getting paid, and then all of a sudden,
boom, your enterprise value may
condense. Whereas with ABL, you're
tighter along the way, and I think
you're getting paid back a little bit
better from the structuring part of it.
With that said, there's lots of ways
cash flow and like I said, we like
platforms like SLR because they're both
a cash flow and an assetbased lender.
So, they can work with the entities that
they want to where those entities may
want that exposure. So, we do measure
it, but the overlap, we're not overly
concerned about that overlap as long as
we feel like we're getting pretty good
risk return characteristics for our
underwrite. John, you bring up a really
good point that in the past few years,
it's a little bit of a tangent, but one
of the things that I've noticed when
we're speaking with folks such as Greg
and others is that when we talk about
cash flow, one of the things that we now
do is we track basically a correlation
of exposures to us and the other big
private credit managers because they're
very interested to know, hey, if I go
and put out names, if I go and I'm an
investor in Aries or Gallup or pick
whomever private credit manager and I
invest in SLR. Am I just buying the same
loan three times because I'm in all
three of yours. So, we've had to track
that because I think it goes to your
point, John. Hey, where are we relative
to that? Because they don't want to be
overexposed into one loan. And the other
nuance relative to that is one of the
things that we've found over the past
couple of years is that when you talk
about APL to folks such as Greg, they
really enjoy it because you don't really
have that much correlation that you do
find in cash flow. That's fascinating
and it actually rhymes with a lot of
work that we've been doing on the
blurring of asset classes, which is kind
of the thrust of my question is that
these things don't fit in one bucket or
another cleanly anymore. And that's why
I'm teasing this out. Greg, last
question for you as I really beat this
horse to death a bit, but you talked
about the layers of ABL due diligence,
the tighter relationship, I think were
your words. Is there anything you would
point out that makes this due diligence
with SLR or an equivalent a contemporary
unique against either cash flow lending
or other types of GPS that you work
with? You've got the GP, you've got the
underlying portfolio company, the
organization taking the debt on, and
then you've got their underlying
collateral. You pull back this onion and
there's lots of ways you could approach
this due diligence. There's a lot to
talk about here, and I am definitely not
I keep joking around with Cedric. I'm an
equity guy that's still learning the way
bond guys talk. But by far the biggest
difference that you have to switch off
from cash flow lending and then switch
on for AL is you immediately need to get
to how do you assess the value of that
collateral. Whereas with cash flow, it's
more all right, let's model that cash
flow. Let's look at where your covenants
lie on that. Let's see what your work
looks like compared to the company's
work. What you got to switch on
immediately with an ABL is how do you
come up with your liquidation value and
then how do you lend off of that because
there's a lot of I think differences
with how Cedric's platform might differ
from others in terms of how you lend off
that liquidation value. But we tend to
side obviously with the ones that I
think do the most and get a lot of
outside third-party validation on that
liquidation value and then keep their
covenants very tight. So whenever I get
asked that question that's the key one
and honestly what we like as investors
in this asset class in general is there
are a lot of subsectors
and I'll talk about SLR but with SLR
nobody can really do health care a lot
of the health care underlying industry
and life sciences the way they can. So
once you start peeling the onion, you
really understand where that
specialization is. And then once you get
into each of those collateral types or
each of those industries, as you would
expect, there's industry specific terms,
language, and all that. So healthcare is
not everything that SLR does, but it's a
good component of it, and we think it's
a huge competitive advantage. So that's
the lens we put on when we're
underwriting these platforms. It really
is fascinating. I said, I'm just curious
just before we turn back to Greg, is
what Greg described echo most of your
perspective and existing LP
relationships? You were in cash flow
lending, you mentioned, for a large
portion of your career. I imagine you
have to go into ABL given these layers
we've just talked about with a little
bit more patience and expectation that
LPs are going to have to kick a few more
tires, go a little bit deeper, walk
around the house many more times before
they're willing to commit. Is that fair?
More than fair. It is because I think it
goes back to the root of the expertise
of the liquidation value and how you
execute on that, how you structure
things, how you monitor things, how you
move daytoday is not a simple one times
conversation or they just look at your
loss ratio or your default. It's not
nearly as insimplistic as that. It is a
very indepth long process and honestly
it's a lot of education too. Greg for
his claiming to be an equity guy, he
really knows. He asks, great questions,
but a lot of LPs really do dig in and go
through a lot of these questions and
understand who do you use? And the
answer is, we're talking a lot about
liquidation values. You use different
appraisers and liquidation firms for
different situations. Some are really
good at retail, some are really good at
consumer products, some are really good
at real estate, some are really good at
equipment. So, you have to know which
one you're using. And then you also have
to I'll give you guys a great example of
the human touch element relative to APL
is a few years ago everybody knew that
Toys R Us was struggling. That wasn't a
secret. Everybody knew that here comes a
default. They may not pay their bonds.
This looks like it's going to go into
BK. Well, if you're the APL lender to a
company supplying to Toys R Us, you have
to be able to go to the company that
you're lending to and say, "You know
what? I'm not accepting any more
accounts receivable in your borrowing
bids. I'm stopping that because I know
that you're going to be an unsecured
creditor and you're not going to get
recovery. The debt ahead of you is going
to get recovery. So, you have to monitor
things like that. And I can give you a
lot of other examples of companies where
you just immediately put them on watch.
You got to go to your borrower and say,
you know what, I can't accept any more
AR. I need you to collect out and move
on. So, that type of diligence that you
have to do and then relay that to Gregs
of the world, it is a very cumbersome
process. And just to put a final point,
cash flow lending again the metrics from
one firm to another to another very
similar and all of us on the LP side
have a template now. But think about
transportation. We did a lot of
transportation alensplanes
and super tankers compared to
healthcare. It's night and day. And by
the way, those go together well also
from a portfolio construction
standpoint. So there's a lot of degrees
like that that just make it I think
challenging. Maybe as we close here and
Cedric I love your views as well but
Greg on the flip side of the question I
asked Cedric earlier in this
conversation of the evolution of all the
different types of AL strategies that
are coming to market. It seems like
we've moved from everyone was a middle
market cash flowbased direct lending
strategy to more and more AL strategies
coming available on the market. So, I'm
assuming you're getting more and more
GPS that are trying to partner with you
and fit into your portfolio. How do you
think about the breadth of all of those
different options that are available?
And any things that you are interested
in investing in, things you might be
avoiding just from a pure collateral
perspective and then Cedric, I'd love
your thoughts on this as well, just from
observations of competitors that are out
there. Stop me if I'm rambling on too
long on this question, but anyone in my
seat with unlimited time horizon, a
healthy risk perspective, we're in the
business of taking risk. We're in the
business to be able to pay off long-term
benefits. So, we start all of our
analysis with a very high level. Is an
asset category growing or not? Do we
like the metrics? Do we like how many
players are in there? So broadly,
private credit is still an asset class
of growth. So I think most allocators
including us are continuing to find ways
to allocate even with base rates moving
back up and bank loans and high yield
being a little bit more attractive some
of the public side. With that said, I
think for the last two years, 202122 was
a bit of a pause with a lot of markets
or a lot of markets altered direction
somewhat, but we think the growth of ABL
will outpace the growth of middle market
cash flow. And I think there's plenty of
studies out there, the one that I was
just looking at last week, ABL was
maybe, and Cedric probably knows this
data better than I do, but it was maybe
four four and a half trillion of the
loan market. And by 2030 it's supposed
to be 10. So within a decade that's a
big number and direct lending cash flow
not as good still growing. So anyways
that's how we start our analysis on
anything. Those projections are great
but then you have to do the work and do
your capital market assessments. And we
really do think to try to get to a
conclusion to your question. What we
really think is available with ABL to
direct lending now is twofold. One, I
think too much money is chasing cash
flow lending to the point where I think
if you returned an 11 to 12% with your
platform in the last 10 years, maybe
it's going to be more like a 9 to 10
with some of the underwriting that we're
seeing right now and expectations. It's
still healthy number, still reason to be
in there. But I think some of these AL
platforms and the looks that they're
getting and the higher barriers to entry
in areas like health care platforms like
that are going to allow the seasoned
providers and to generate probably a low
teens. I like seeing when private equity
is going after when there's some
consolidation when there's some M&A. I
was just talking to a European platform
earlier this week where they got a big
private equity infusion and basically
doubled the number of disperate lines,
underwriting lines that they had. So
that's a little bit of a show of the
growth. And if you peel the onion back
on Cedric shop, they have for the size
of institution that they have, they have
a lot of regional offices. They have a
lot of teams that are just going after
one specific collateral type. one
specific loan type. So, we think people
that have already put that together and
have a very seasoned platform within
ABL, I think are going to be very well
off over the next 10 years. I think
what's clear is that this is not a space
for a credit generalist. I think that's
what several answers to our questions
you've reinforced which is these are all
micro specialties and they deserve and
require and demand their own teams that
do a very unique due diligence process
have to get very close to the business
the underlying collateral and if you
don't have that it's going to be really
challenging to create alpha I imagine
said just in closing that while as I
mentioned earlier ABL hasn't quite
reached the red flag on our stage but as
far as the trendiest thing we're
hearing, but there's no doubt it's
getting more interest. Are you seeing
underwriting cycles, sourcing approaches
start to shorten, quicken, become a bit
more urgent? I'm not really seeing them
become a bit more urgent or quicken. And
I think one of the things that we really
like about ABL, honestly, is that if you
picked up a cash flow document from 2018
or 2015 and you compared it to 2025 cash
flow document, they would look really
different. If you picked an AL document
in that same time horizon, you probably
couldn't tell which one was from 2015
and which one was from 2025. So the
process that we have to go through an
APL that we've been talking about really
you can't force feed and do inventory
counts or accounts receivable or get
values on equipment or real estate
whatever you're lending on. You can't do
that overnight. There is a process that
you have to go through. So I think
you're getting heightened interest from
all the players whether that's private
equity or corporate side etc in this
space. But one of the things for AL is
the process. You can't go faster.
Everybody can go faster. But there's a
lot of times and honestly you're
bringing up an interesting point in AL
land and this is just my experience.
When you get the phone call that
somebody needs to close in three weeks,
an ABL, that's generally a really bad
phone call because they've either fallen
down. There's two scenarios that I think
about. And again, you're getting to my
why I'm a risk guy. You're either
talking to somebody who like, oh my
gosh, my company's going to explode or
it's fraud. The latter is a big problem
in AL fraud. When people want to defraud
you in AL, they work really, really hard
and they can be very creative. It
usually goes handinhand with I got to
close in three weeks. And so that raises
such red flags for us that normally we
just put our pencils down and move on
because you can get burned. So still
hearing plenty of supply to go around,
but you have to be careful nonetheless.
So listen guys, that was a master class
that really was a view from the trenches
of much of the summary that we opened
with. I know the listeners will have
massively benefited from many of those
illustrations, those real life examples.
So, Greg and said, "Thank you so much
for joining Capital Decanted and
listeners, stay tuned for the last sip."
All right, welcome back to the last sip.
Erin, I really appreciate it. The
interchange between Greg and said, that
I think is the second time in our 24
episodes that we've had an LP and a GP
that actually work together. And I don't
know that that's necessary every time,
but in this case, I think it was really
helpful given the newness and the
somewhat foreign nature, at least to
most of the listeners, I would guess, of
AL because I think their play off of
each other and how they think about
this, what they demand from each other,
what they're seeing said was really,
really helpful. And this is Greg's style
at Illinois, but here's what we see.
Here's why it's very common the way Greg
approaches it. Here's why it's a little
bit rare. and here's what we see from
some of our other LP partners. So, I
just found that conversation really
enlightening on bringing to life some of
our philosophical stuff that we talked
about in the intro, but anything that
was revolutionary or a big takeaway that
came across in that conversation for
you? Well, first of all, I loved Greg
talking about being an equity guy and
making this transition. I think that
might be indicative of a lot of people.
This is new for a lot of investors. So
that was just interesting to hear him
talk through his thought process as he
learns more about this and begins to
allocate more to it. I think there were
two takeaways, one from Greg and then
one from said. So you asked the question
on allocation. So how do you think about
this in a portfolio context? And if I
remember correctly, I think Greg was
like it doesn't really matter. It's more
about just getting exposure. And I think
that's the right way to think about
this. I'm biased and you mentioned this
TPA is what we're focused on quite a
bit. So that was just the blurring of
asset classes and it almost doesn't
matter where you put it in a bucket.
It's more about the exposure at the end
of the day. And then from set this is
more of a reinforcement I think based on
our prelude before they came on. But the
idea that this is not for generalists.
This is for investors who can build out
a team. They can have the expertise to
be able to analyze collateral but also
go through the workout process when
things get really tough. So those are
two for me. But how about yourself? I
agree. Greg didn't seem overly concerned
about real estate collateral in his ABL
book versus his actual real estate
portfolio or allocation. And I thought
that was interesting again and I think
it goes back to where I started at the
intro way back which is is this even an
asset class and allocation is it right
to think about it that's in the same way
or is it extensions of lots of asset
classes so we're almost a diversifying
bucket of credit that just doesn't fit
anywhere else. So that's interesting. I
think the biggest takeaway for me and I
can't remember if this was in the green
room or in the conversation, but I had
talked about and introduced this entire
topic as one of the most complex, one of
the most idiosyncratic. And I think it
really crystallized for me when Seth and
Greg were talking about the fact that
what you're doing on the due diligence
side is there's due diligence on the GP,
there's due diligence on the loan, the
credit structure, and then there's due
diligence on the underlying collateral
as you talked about at length. So you've
got three, I think they called it
layers, and you're just peeling this
stuff back. And every one of those due
diligence elements, I suppose most LPs
are used to the first two, but they're
certainly not used to the third or even
having a third. And so these layers and
mechanisms by which you need to ensure
that you're clearly understanding what
that partner is delivering to you, that
they have expertise, that the valuation,
the LTV is appropriate, the monitoring
system is current, I think is
fascinating. And so it's this iceberg
metaphor where at outside the water you
see just this little bit of this
beautiful credit against a piece of
machinery but underneath the water is
just a whole lot of process complexity
expertise and workflow needed to make
sure that you do that and perhaps more
than any other asset class we've looked
at. At least my impression is. So again
this is why I think there is this
governor as I mentioned in the intro
earlier at least to do it well. Now, you
might have a bunch of copycats jumping
in, but I think to do this well, you
really need to step back and make sure
you've got the right approaches and
build the muscle before this is
allocated too explicitly. So, John, how
does this all make you think about
monetizing our insights on capital to
cancel it? You started with that at the
very beginning. So, are we moving to an
originate to distribute model? Are we
getting an assetbased loan? What's going
on in your mind? I don't know. I think
I'm more confused on that front than I
was when I opened in the intro. It
sounded clean and fun then, but I would
like to do some back tests on that
because I think we could perhaps sell a
Kaya leading indicator that could be
quite interesting. All right, listeners.
So, our personal question that we agreed
on, I think is a fun one. And that is
Aaron. And you're a different generation
than me, so probably thinking about this
differently because you're more native
than I was at an earlier age to the
phone and the behavior of the use of
your mobile. But the question was, if
you had to delete every app except three
from your phone, which three would you
leave? First and foremost, I would leave
Apple Music cuz I'm a huge music nerd.
First and foremost, wow. First and
foremost, that's the most important one.
I could stop there and I'd be totally
happy. So, it's an iPod. It's an iPod,
which is fine. That's fine with me.
Yeah, Apple Music would be one. I guess
I have to keep Messenger so I can
actually talk to people. So my iMessage
and then I would probably have to keep
Instagram just because one you got to
see people and two the reals they're
good. So those three. How about
yourself? So on the music side I get
made fun of by my adult kids all the
time cuz I use Pandora. Oh god.
A little old school. The eye rolling
when I turn that on on Friday night. Are
they still in business? They are. That
was AI before AI was cool. Let me just
say their algorithms are wicked awesome.
I would not choose that though. I would
not. As much as I like music, that would
not be one of the three. I went much
more utilitarian than you cuz thinking
about how my life would change if I
didn't have certain things. So, first of
all, I chose Messenger cuz I think
that's just an absolute life necessity,
at least the way we run our lives now. I
chose United and Uber because I
literally can't imagine my travel
schedule without my ability to call an
Uber and the constant navigation delays,
rebookings on United. If I didn't have
access to that, it would be the old
school calling the 1-800 number, which I
do not want to do. So, there you go.
United, Uber, and Messenger. Uber was my
fourth just because I'm out in the
middle of South Jersey and if I need to
escape, it's tough. But yeah, I did make
the cut. That's good. Well, that was a
fun one. I mean, every one of these I
learned a ton. This might be one,
although this follows China, so it's
hard to argue that the educational depth
will ever match what at least I learned
in China, speaking for myself. But when
I think about investment asset classes,
this was really enjoyable because it was
outside my depth. I think I've mentioned
to you, similar to Greg, I was an equity
guy. So, credit generally, fixed income
generally is always a stretch for me.
And when you throw a whole lot of weird
collateral and structures and covenants
against this, that just adds a whole lot
of complexity that is outside of my
comfort zone. So, I found it really
helpful. So, listeners, I hope you
enjoyed that pathway, that journey as
much as we did, and we hope to see you
next time on Capital Danton.
