Today, Brookfield Asset Management is
the leading global alternative asset
manager focused on real assets. We
manage over a trillion dollars across
five key verticals and we use a distinct
owner operator approach to deliver
attractive riskadjusted returns across
all our strategies and products. As we
continue to say and have been saying for
years, the largest investment themes
around the world today are those of
digitalization,
delobalization,
and decarbonization. And when you look
at our platform, our position in the
market, and the themes that we are on
the forefront of, we not only have a
business that can double in less than 5
years, but can continue to add new
growth levers over time on a repeatable
basis.
And that allows us to deliver up to 20%
compound earnings on a year-over-year
basis, not just in the near term, but
longer term as well. As we think of what
are the dynamics that will continue to
add these new growth levers in the
future, there are four. These are
products, partnerships, performance, and
individuals.
Brookfield has a proven embedded
capability to scale strategies that we
already have, but we also have a unique
and repetitive capability to develop,
build, and launch one, new strategies
that meet the evolving market needs
around the world and the demands of our
clients, as well as products within
those strategies that are uniquely
tailored to the widening spectrum of
investors. ers that are now seeking to
get exposure to alternatives. Brookfield
is unique.
Our owner operator approach, the
alignment that comes by investing
significant Brookfield capital alongside
our LP partners and our dedicated
industry specific knowledge and
experience.
This differentiates us and makes us a
sought-after counterparty for the
largest and most important organizations
in the world for their strategic and
growth initiatives. Across all of our
major strategies and products, we have
met or exceeded our returns on a
long-term basis. And this is something
we will not compromise on as we continue
to scale. Our investment discipline and
our product innovation discipline will
ensure that we continue to deliver this
track record even as our platform
expands. We are in the early innings of
one of the largest growth opportunities
for the alternative sector and that is
offering alternatives to the individual
investor. We expect that allocation to
alternatives to increase dramatically
due to changes in both regulation and
investor demand. When we look at
offering alternatives to individual
investors, it is those who have size,
brand and track record. And here we feel
we are unmatched. We have a platform
that can deliver that doubling of size
in less than 5 years. And our ability to
do this will allow us to outperform our
longtime earnings target not only over
the near term but beyond. We have strong
results, consistently strong results on
the backs of significant growth
expectations. So if you go back five
years,
this is when we laid out our 5-year
plan. As you can see, not only do we
meet expectations, but we exceeded
expectations. Flagships are the
cornerstone of our business. They are
where we house our operating skills, our
asset knowledge, our sourcing
capabilities, and above all else, 125
years of learning lessons as we've been
investing. Bottom line, investors have
shown a willingness to continue to
commit round after round because of the
performance of our fund, the quality,
and the return of capital on an
attractive risk adjusted return basis.
We've also expanded our platform. Wealth
Solutions is the perfect example here
where we're growing that in a quick
pace. In the past five years, we raised
450 billion. And when you look at that,
we've managed about 100 billion of fee
bearing capital. Many of our clients
have increased the size of their tickets
and allocating amongst more of our
strategies.
But the step change came in private
wealth. We went from really starting
from scratch to 60,000 clients and
growing quickly. Now we're on to the
next five years. This is a compounding
growth model supported by flagship
funds, complimentary funds, and wealth
solutions. The flagships, I'm I'm going
to repeat again how important this is to
our business. And there is still
scalability. We see a 30% growth for the
2030 round of fundraisings for these
five strategies.
Our complimentary funds will continue to
grow with at 100% growth. Well Solutions
is another part of our growth story. We
manage about 100 billion of fee bearing
capital. That's growing to 325
by 2030. So now pulling this all
together, we have further strengthened
our franchise. We have continued to
expand and grow our business and we
anticipate generating about 16% growth
rate. So now you understand why we have
confidence in delivering the double of
our business. We are built for this. in
order to do that um they need to sort of
start at a very high level uh and
because of the size and scale of the
operation that growth comes from a lot
of different uh different areas. So we
wanted to try and bring some of this to
life for you. Brookfield Capital
Partners uh which is our global flagship
uh private equity fund uh we'll be
launching we've launched the the seventh
iteration of that fund. So over the last
uh 25 years uh for through the first six
vintages uh we have an average return of
26%. What we do is we we are value
investors who drive operational
transformation in the businesses that we
own. We focus on industrial companies
and essential services that tr touch the
Brookfield ecosystem where we have an
information advantage or we know the
business better than anyone else could.
Our goal is to be the best owner of the
business, not just the highest payer of
a business. It's also allowed us to uh
build some uh complimentary strategies
around our core flagship offering. And
so this capability we have in
industrials, essential services and
operations. It's allowed us to build a
structured equity product. Uh it's
allowed us to build a new wealth product
that we're soon to be launched and uh a
financial infrastructure product as
well.
>> Brookfield is the preeeminent
infrastructure manager. We start with
the expertise with the flagship. We are,
you know, the best at what we do. Uh, we
have the longest history. We have, uh,
the most number of strategies. We have
the most consistent track records. We
have the deepest operational knowledge
out there. We are taking our platform
and we're putting a fund structure that
we think is attractive for private
wealth. This is our bread and butter.
It's that operational value ad that we
do day in day out. uh recapitalizing a
balance sheet, extending a contract, uh
improving supply chains, again things
that are in our nature to do.
>> It's off the back of um the good work
that the great work that Chloe and the
infrastructure team have done, that your
team have done in real estate in uh
accessing uh retail wealth channels um
that have allowed us in private equity
to actually build a product now that
we're really excited about for the
wealth channel that we're able to
launch. something that probably a year
ago we we would not have been able to
do.
