[Music]
Hello and welcome to the Enterprising
Investor, the flagship investment
podcast for CFA Institute. I'm Mike
Wberg and I'm joined today by Chris
Mahoney, a senior partner at Mercer who
is responsible for the firm's defined
benefit and defined contribution pension
consulting businesses. With over 30
years of experience at the firm, she's
led various divisions and service
offerings, including strategy, plan
design, administration, and investment
strategies. So, we're going to talk
today about the 2025 global pension
index report, which is produced annually
and is just out now. It's a joint effort
of Mercer and CFA Institute. So, welcome
to the show, Chris.
>> Thanks for having me, Mike. I appreciate
it.
>> So, for those unfamiliar, what exactly
is the global pension index report and
what are its goals? So it's actually
started 17 years ago and the purpose of
it is really to accumulate information
about pension systems around the globe
to inform pension legislation and
reforms. And so the the start of it was
really to educate policymakers on what
systems we have, what works, what
doesn't work. And it's up to 52
countries now, which covers about 65% of
the world population. And we add
countries almost every year. It's as
getting larger and larger over time. And
we basically look at the the whole
entire pension system in those
countries. And we give them relative
rankings and ratings. And I can go into
lots of details about how we do that,
but we look at over 50 indicators of
different systems. Uh we rate them and
then we give comparative scores for each
country. So, so that would include
national pension schemes plus whatever
the sort of the uh industry is providing
to individuals in each of those
countries.
>> Correct. So, it would be public, it
would be private, it could even be other
assets that you might not even think of
as retirement assets like home ownership
as an example. So you really look at the
financial security of retirement in each
of the countries across all sorts of of
different kinds of arrangements people
have. And look, there are also informal
arrangements and we'll take that into
account. The more formal and the clearer
the numbers are, it's a more objective
data score, but we do take into account
more subjective things as well. So it's
really quite comprehensive in each
country. Now, I I don't know all of them
personally, but I would guess that our
listeners are generally competitive
people. A lot of type A people out
there, so I know there's some people
that want to know. They're listening.
They're like, "What is my how did my
country do there?" And uh highlights are
that in general, the Nordic countries
did well. Is is maybe not a big surprise
there. Plus, Singapore, new entrance
this year. You mentioned that it's
covering a bunch of the world. You get
new new countries every year. Uh
Singapore came in with an A rating along
with Israel, Australia, and well,
Israel, Australia, Chile, and the
Nordics all had an either A or B+ in
there. So, good good job for them. As a
Canadian here, proud Canadian recording
on Thanksgiving Monday, it's uh Canada
had a B. US had a C++. And at the bottom
of the list, I'm sorry, Turkey,
Philippines, Argentina, and India all
came in with a D. So, if you want to see
where your country landed, you can find
that report on the CFA Institute and
Mercer site. So, go go check that out.
So maybe
>> Mike, it's funny. It's funny that you
mentioned that because I've played
different roles at Mercer. Now I'm in a
global role, but for a very long time I
ran USbased businesses and I immediately
would go right to the United States.
Now, now I try to have a little bit
broader perspective, but it is
interesting how the human brain works.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You just you want to know
how you're doing. Absolutely.
>> Yeah. For sure.
>> So maybe Chris, could you just explain a
bit? Index is kind of a broad term. So,
how is it constructed? And then maybe
you could get in a little bit. I know
there are three parts to it. I I I
didn't read the report here, but maybe
you can talk about those adequacy,
sustainability, integrity, and and how
they uh are sort of the foundation of
the of the index.
>> Sure. So, we look at three core
principles and as I mentioned, there are
50 different things we look at, but we
group them together in three topic
areas. the first and and perhaps the
most important and then we wait those
three areas and I'll talk a little bit
about what's subjective and what's
objective within the report because the
the point of it is to begin a
conversation and I know people are
competitive so you want it to be exact
and we do work very hard to make it as
objective as possible but the point of
it is to get into the details of the
system in your particular country and
think about what improvements you might
make. So the the most important is
adequacy and that's to say that a
retiree would have enough money to have
a dignified retirement. That is the core
of what a retirement system should
deliver. Sustainability means that the
system can actually withstand
demographic and economic pressures over
time. And if you think about it, the
amount of demographic pressure that
these systems are under in many of the
OECD countries in particular, but in
many of the countries. So we test to
whether or not over time it will be
resilient in the face of those kinds of
pressure. And then the last is
integrity, which is to say there's a
regulatory framework in each country
that surrounds these programs. How
stable is it and how comprehensive is
it? And therefore, can you rely that the
system will be there for the long term?
And so those are the three core things
we rate each country on. And when you
look at the report, you'll see we it's
we try to be very transparent.
What did what was the rating in each of
those categories? But then even if you
want to dive into the details in each of
the the 50 plus uh areas that we look
into, you can go see what was your score
in a particular country. And then of
course there are recommendations for
each country about what they could do
that would improve the scores in all
three of the areas.
>> That's interesting. So yeah, that
sustainability piece is is a bit of a
tough one, right? Because you you're
you're looking at the ability, you know,
basically it sounds like you're you're
sort of looking at the GDP growth
trajectory for or the ability for them
to continue growing and and funding
these things over time. Is that so do
you does it get do you get higher
rankings then basically for funds that
are you know quote fully funded I I'm
thinking from a pension index or from a
pension management perspective when I
when I used to manage clients there we
would do say liability driven investment
process where you've kind of matching
off your liabilities against the assets
that you have over time and you can kind
of have if you're a little bit more
refined in your approach in those cases
often times you're matching up long
bonds against those liabilities but in
this case how do How do you do that? How
do you Is it just forecasts for, you
know, is it going off a demographic
cliff? Is is the economy likely to have
some type of disruption in 10 years or
15 years or how does that work?
>> So, there are a few things we look at.
The first is like what percentage of
your population would be covered by a
funded pension plan. So much like you
described that you're accumulating
assets against a commitment. It could be
a defined benefit commitment and then
your your liability driven investment
would be an example of how you might
manage the risk of that funded. But
actually just let's start with how many
people are in funded arrangements. That
would be something that we would look as
a percentage of the country. How big are
your pension assets as a percentage of
your GDP? So, how much other resources
does the country have aside from their
pension system? And then exactly what
you said, how fast are they getting hit
with a demographic change? And you know,
it's very different across the world.
Whi- which countries are aging, which
countries are aging faster. Um whether
or not it's a fertility change versus
just a longevity issue or both crashing
together and how fast are they crashing
together. um do they have mandatory
contributions so that there's an ongoing
revenue stream that is just accumulating
as opposed to relying on past or funding
streams that are vulnerable in some way.
Um the other thing is how much of your
labor force participates at what age? In
other words, do they work later? Do you
have the capacity to maybe take on more
people working later? So we'll look at
what the population statistics are about
working to older ages and then we'll
look at the real economic growth in in
the particular country. So
sustainability is sort of a big group of
things that we look at to determine
whether or not and those are mostly
hard data things for stability. There
are some judgment things in there, but
that is largely a hard number that
statistics that we look at in making
that judgment.
>> So, one of the themes that you and I
have both seen in our careers,
especially over the last 25 years plus,
is is a a decline. Well, certainly in
Canada and the US, I'm actually not sure
about the rest of the world is a decline
in DB relative to DC. That's a private,
you know, plans converting their members
or closing them. do do
uh countries get more credit for DB than
DC in the on this measure?
>> They do get more credit. It dep it
depends because there's no you could get
just as high a score in a DC world as
you get in a DB world. But one of the
things we do look at is do you have a
reliable income stream in retirement? So
you can have a defined contribution plan
that is well designed to establish an
income stream in retirement or you could
have a defined contribution plan that
doesn't. And so that will affect your
score. But you can design a defined
contribution plan uh and I would point
to the Netherlands and the transition
the Netherlands is going through right
now moving from DB to DC over time. But
the DC arrangements that they will have
will have the will have lifetime income
guarantees embedded in them. And so you
don't have to design, but in Canada and
in the US, you could take it all as a
lump sum and spend it in the first year.
That's permissible. And so that's going
to get you a lower score because that's
not as sustainable and not as adequate
either potentially.
>> Huh. Interesting. So So the Netherland
Netherlands would do well for that.
Their score might go up. Are there any
other sort of um reforms or policy
trends that you've seen across countries
that have helped them move their scores
upward over the last 17 years? Anything
that comes to mind?
>> Governance. So having independent boards
decreasing and this was the special
chapter that was in the report this
year. decreasing limitations on
investments that allow your investments
to perform better over time or
increasing so that you're protecting
participants from risky asset classes
that you think would not help them in
retirement. So I would say that that the
combination of mandatory contributions,
income in retirement and governments are
the things that people have added that
have really improved scores.
>> So let's talk about that special
chapter. So every year you do uh have a
focus for it. Uh this year you focused
on government influence over private
pension investments. What what drove the
decision to make that? Do do you know
internally there?
>> I think there are two reasons. The first
is that the amount of pension assets as
we've aged is just a tremendous amount,
right? Over 63 trillion in assets just
in the OECD countries. So they are a big
part of the investable assets that we
have. And so they're attracting policy
makers attention. And you've seen things
in the US, in the UK, but there have
been others very specifically looking at
whether or not we should be using those
pension assets country by country to not
only grow them for the retirees, but to
influence other policy things, whether
it's investment in infrastructure or do
only domestic infrastructure that you're
investing in. There have been a lot of
conversations in the last couple of
years about directing those assets in a
specific way taking into account
additional needs for a particular
country beyond just the retirees needs.
>> And I think it's important to say that's
not bad necessarily, right? Because it's
important if you're a retiree to live in
a country that has a strong economy,
right? like it's the that's not an
unreasonable thing to take into
consideration, but we wanted to
highlight that how you do it matters and
and the importance of the way that you
do it.
>> Yeah. And so depending on how big the
pension is as a percentage of the
country, that can actually be quite a
large lever that government can pull. So
before we get into the recommendations
of uh of the reporter in the in the
special chapter there, talk a little bit
about the government intervention
specifically and how directly or
indirectly sometimes intentionally
sometimes unintentionally influence the
investments decisions that pension
portfolios can make.
>> So I think there are lots of different
ways you can approach it. I would say
the most common is to say to have like
highlevel rules things like you have to
invest for the best interest of the plan
participants. You need to have
fiduciaries running your investment
decisions just as an example. So that's
like the most common type where you give
concept rules. I think that governments
can restrict or define how investments
are uh made with pension assets and then
you can get very prescriptive beyond
that into very details. Some of them
will be you you can only invest in our
country
>> period full stop. You the government has
to approve every investment. It can go
all the way to that level of of of
government involvement. And then I think
you see lots in between things like very
specific asset allocations. You
mentioned liability driven investments.
You there are countries that mandate you
may not have more than X% in this kind
of asset and maybe it's risky assets and
then they define the risky assets. So
you can get quite specific and limiting
in how you legislate around investment
decisions. I will say that one of the
things the report found is that the
lower your restrictions, the higher the
returns of the system. And so I don't
believe there is any country that has
zero restrictions, but the lower ones
are the ones that get the highest scores
for sustainability. H so so in the
report it introduces eight guiding
principles to balance that fiduciary
duty with the national interest. Some of
them are perhaps expected ideals. So as
you mentioned like focusing on your
fiduciary duty to existing members
exercising robust governance. It also
gets into ways in which the government
can balance its own social and economic
goals. So let's talk about those with
you know these are the pensions and
their members. So what did the report
find in terms of that finding that
balance and finding ways to achieve both
the goals of the pension and and also
national imperatives?
>> I think the first principle of
retirement first is it was first for a
reason like that's the most important
thing. If you are putting national
interest ahead of retirements, in other
words, you know, there is a direct cost
to what you're doing and you're
deprioritizing accumulating that
retirement income stability for the
participants, that should be a red flag.
If on the other hand, there are times
when it's difficult, right, for a lot of
reasons. Retirement systems cover a wide
variety of people. More wealthy, less
wealthy, young, old, right near the end
of their life, just beginning. Like all
of those people are covered. And so how
you balance who's getting the benefit is
also important. An example would be
>> you're 25, you want a lot of risky
assets, right? You've got a long
retirement ahead of you and a lot of
time to recover. you're 85, you don't
want a lot of risky assets. So, how do
you make that balance happen is
complicated,
but if you're starting with, I know this
hurts the retirement system, but it's
better for X,
>> that's that's that's not a great place
to be. That would be that retirement
first mindset is probably the most
important. But in fairness, you want to
have a robust economy for retirees, too.
You want to encourage working into older
ages, right? But you might do that by
making it less attractive to retire
early, right? So like the there are
going to be times it's hard to balance
>> and that's not always very politically
feasible. I mean, I think about the the
protest in France a few years ago when
they tried to increase the age there and
that that that did not land very well.
>> That's right. That's right. Or in the
US, you look at social security
retirement ages, right? We increased
those in the 80s which was a long time
ago
>> and we haven't it's difficult to do
politically to do any sort of changes to
those.
>> Yeah. Yeah. For sure. So one of the
things I wanted to talk about was just
this idea of uh public private
partnerships. So as a way for pensions
to participate in sort of nation
building. I know that I mean I just in I
know in the US there's a lot of
infrastructure building that has to
happen. Canada's is no different. We're
looking at doing a lot of new projects
now to build out the infrastructure here
and finding that capital from from
pensions can be an important source of
capital for that. So, so how can pension
funds collaborate effectively with
governments to scale investments in
national infrastructure while while
still maintaining that that governance
because it has to be, you know, has to
be a balance. Look, and I also think
that infrastructure and the bonds that
governments issue in order to fund them
can be very good investments for a
pension trust. And actually remember the
the idea of liabilitydriven investments,
right? They they can be great products
in a pension fund. And so I I think the
way that you balance those and you think
about how the actual investment vehicle
is structured, that could be the
partnership between private and public,
too. And by the way, not just with
pension funds, but with financial
services companies that are building
different kinds of products in order to
be able to invest in all of those
infrastructure. I think you then have to
go back to retirement first. It has to
be a good product for the system that
you're putting it in. But it just so
happens that infrastructure, real
estate, these are actually very good
investments for retirement funds and
you've picked you picked two countries
that are aging. They're particularly
good in an aging situation
>> just because of the structure of the way
those bonds tend to pay out. They fit
inside plans. And if you go and look at
the investment policies in an awful lot
of private pension plans, you'll see
they they already have some. And the
only question is can it can more be done
to build more of those products with the
thought in mind that it has to fit
inside a pension plan or into a
retirement plan and make sure that it's
being governed in a way that would make
you comfortable putting it inside of a
pension trust.
>> One of the things I I thought was
interesting is one of the eight
principles that the report suggests is
policy incentives not mandates. So
basically uh more carrot less stick. Can
you talk about how that how that works?
Like why why does that what how have you
found that to work better and uh and
what what do you recommend that in real
life? Well, when the world is changing
fast and I know everyone wants to talk
about AI these days to to as the
indicator of the speed of change, but
the more the world is variable and
changing rapidly, it is very hard for
regulatory frameworks that are very
inflexible and with clear rules and with
absolute behaviors that you need to do
because as the world changes, the more
experimentation you have, the more
opportunity you give systems to actually
run to what makes the most sense, you
get better outcomes. And so that idea of
encouraging doing the right thing
without being very specific and saying
exactly how to do the right thing will
just get you a better outcome in the
end. I think a good example of that is
actually investment strategies. Private
investments would be in defined
contribution plans would be a good
example of this. You can ban it. You can
say no. But when a certain percentage of
your GDP or your economy is in the
private markets, you've now closed off.
And that happens over time, right? It it
builds. It doesn't happen on a day. And
suddenly you find yourself in a
situation where you're saying you can't
participate in a huge chunk of the
economy of a country. So, so the idea
that you
you give good guidance for how to make
decisions but you don't prescribe each
of the decisions very carefully, I think
you get a better outcome.
>> That's awesome because I I actually
wanted to talk to you about that that
this movement behind uh democratizing
access to private assets for DC and
private clients. So from the way you
describe it, you you're you're saying
you set some ground rules for it. So, so
how how do you how do you provide
because historically just for context
and and and and I'm not telling you
anything you don't know here is is that
the these private assets were made
available specifically to qualifi
qualified institutional buyers generally
some high net worth or ultra high net
worth again with the bar being
sophistication understanding of the risk
specifically a liquidity risk um to
protect them from buying something that
isn't appropriate for for their
portfolio. So how do you how do you how
do you explain that concept or you you
create an environment where you know the
average investor who has a DC plan with
their employer you know uh is a shop
steward on a union plan that doesn't
spend a lot of time looking at the
financial markets and doesn't get that
he might not be able to cash in you know
redeem his his private real estate fund
and his DC plan when it comes time for
retirement like how do you create
guardrails to safely roll this out to to
sort of the mass affin.
>> I think that you use the fiduciary
concept and that retirement first that
we mentioned about the principles um in
terms of how governments um should lean
into private pension plans and have a
fiduciary between the decision maker and
the actual investor. Right. And so I
think that that will help you you
mentioned that mostly it's been
available to either ultra high netw
worth people or institutions
>> and if you create an institutional
product that would give access I think
then you get the benefit of
participating in the market without
having to do on an individual basis the
due diligence in each private market
investment. And so you would get the
advantage of a fiduciary making that
decision and and look doing the due
diligence.
>> So the fiduciary in between is is
determining suitability providing
education to them. So this and this
could be a sunlife platform or you know
one of these bigger platforms that acts
as a distributor for these DC products.
So they they would be in between and
helping you understand the risks before
you before you take on inappropriate
risk.
>> That's right. and balancing like
everything you said the liquidity of the
fund, right? And because it would be
generally speaking that it's a blended
fund. So you would have some public
market stuff in there in addition to
private market and you would be able to
manage the liquidity risk and the
overall risk of the the investment
decisions that you're making and still
have access to what is becoming a large
part of the investment markets and
allowing that participation. So the once
again it has to be to the advantage of
the participant, right? And not
participating in a big chunk of
investable opportunities in the
marketplace. That's not to the advantage
of the participant. Making sure that you
have a fiduciary helping you make those
decisions. That's that takes away some
of the risk that was the original
limitation.
>> Gotcha. Well, unfortunately, Chris,
we're coming to the end of our time
here. Uh, we I do have my my usual
two-parter for you at the end here, and
that's what's what was your first job in
the industry? And if you could go back
and take yourself for coffee on your
first day, what key piece of advice
would you offer yourself?
>> Oh, that's great. Uh, my first job in
the industry was working as an actuary
and I was at Coopers and Librand in New
York. Doesn't exist anymore now. It's
part of PWC. And uh, and it was
fabulous. And by the way, I wasn't a
math major. I just decided that actuary
sounded interesting. You know what I
loved about it as a profession is the
combination of detailed numbers
and communication.
>> That's sort of I love that the idea that
you get very expert in a in a financial
concept and then you explain it to
people who are smart but have never
spent any time on those numbers. And so
I enjoyed that combination.
put out if I was having coffee with
myself. You know, it's very funny. I had
coffee with a lot of actuaries before I
made this decision. You know, one thing
I would I think I would say to myself
when they tell you the defined benefit
and retirement systems are going away,
don't listen. Like, yes, they're
changing for sure. Massive change is
going to happen over your career, but
there's a little bit of chicken little
about the collapse of systems. And you
just need to make progressive
improvements in systems and not think
that they disappear on a on a day
because there that I I recall in in the
80s this was we weren't going to have
pensions anymore by the time I got to
the age I am now. It's just not true.
Turns out
>> to be your own counsel. That's that's
good advice.
>> Yeah. I've been speaking today with
Chris Mahoney, a senior partner and the
global pensions DB and DC leader with
Mercer. Again, if you'd like to read
that Mercer CFA Institute global pension
index 2025 report, head to the CFA and
Mercer websites. And thanks so much for
coming on the show today, Chris.
>> Thank you. I really enjoyed it.
>> I'm Mike Wahberg and this has been the
enterprising investor.
[Music]
