Welcome to today's investment foundation
certificate live learning webinar. This
session is on achieving excellence an
overview of performance evaluation. This
this session will cover the evaluation
process relative returns and benchmarks
key ratios and understanding alpha and
much more. And I'm delighted to
introduce Tom Gordon. He's our
instructor for today. Um Tom is a CFA
charter holder, director of exam
development at CFA Institute. He's
responsible for managing um the
processes and activities necessary to
develop the CFA program examinations and
certifications.
>> Thank you very much Catherine. That's a
fantastic introduction and uh first of
all welcome to everyone for for coming
to this session. and it's an absolute
pleasure to kind of uh go through just a
slice of the investment foundation
certificate or the IFC as I like to call
it. In this particular session, what I'm
going to do is go through um just a
snippet of what we call the overview of
performance evaluation. Of course, my
name's Tom. I'm obviously with the exam
development team here at the CF
Institute. um you know well verssed in
kind of you taking these sort of
sessions and you know to give you an
introduction on performance evaluation I
think it's quite a nice way to kind of
spend what is a lovely afternoon here in
the UK beautiful weather at the moment
not too long nice byite-size kind of
seminar you know someone asking there
who's this webinar for certainly for
those um individuals who you don't
necessarily have a background in finance
looking to kind of gain kind of a basic
understanding of some of the kind of
concepts that you might kind of come
across on a day-to-day business within
the world of finance. Um, so what we're
going to do today just a kind of a
snapshot if you like of some of the
topic areas that we're going to look at.
We're going to describe first of all the
kind of concept of what we call
performance evaluation. We kind of
introduce the concept of a benchmark and
how we can kind of utilize it in our
ability to kind of um engage in
performance valuation. We'll discuss the
kind of concept of return. the fact that
we can kind of compare it to what could
be what we call a risk-free rate of
return, what we call a benchmark return.
And that's all focused on the return
aspect of our portfolio. But then of
course we can't fundamentally talk about
the return of a portfolio unless we also
talk about the risks of the portfolio.
So there are certain what we call reward
to risk ratios and there are some very
popular and certainly people might have
heard along you heard of these along the
grapevine things such as what we call
the sharp ratio or the trainer ratio and
just kind of giving you a brief
introduction to those ratios and how
very much to kind of interpret what
those um kind of riskreward ratios would
represent. And then what I'm also going
to try and do kind of finish off with
this, this is actually something that
kind of comes up in um the CFA level
three program um what we call
performance attribution where we could
take a portfolio return and try and
break the component returns into areas
of am I good at what we call stock
selection? Is it down to things like my
asset allocation? So what we'll do is
we'll start we said there the
performance evaluation process just to
begin with. So kind of breaking this
down. So what I'm going to do through
the performance evaluation process is
understand how my investments are
performing and evaluate them. Now of
course how could I evaluate my
portfolio? Well key thing would be to
identify what my return may be. So have
I achieved a certain level of return?
And we'll just look at you know quick
ways that we can measure returns. There
are many ways that we can measure
return, but I'm going to show you a
simple calculation called the total
return of a portfolio. And then what I'm
also going to do is identify that we can
measure the risk of a portfolio. The
fact that the returns can be good and
bad and that they are volatile. They may
go up and down. So there are certain
risk measures out there that we can also
look at. Not that we're going to
quantify it in today's session, but we
can kind of narratively talk around the
concept of standard deviation, for
example, which is a key measure of risk
that we can often look at on portfolios.
Then what we do is say, well, I've
generated a level of return and I want
to compare my return. So, we can compare
it to what we call a benchmark. So, some
of you may have heard of um you know
terms like the Footsie 100 or the S&P
500. They are measures of um kind of
what we call referred to as benchmark
returns. They're indexes upon which we
might decide to compare our portfolio
against in which case we can then
identify whether we have maybe beaten
that benchmark return or if in fact we
have underperformed the benchmark. So
the idea that there are benchmarks out
there and we might look at let's say
some of the features that we would
identify when we choose a benchmark to
compare our performance against and then
of course what would be some of the key
reasons for us doing this. Well if you
are deciding to give me your money you
need to identify whether I'm good or
not. So in which case we can obviously
use this kind of performance evaluation
process to determine the skill of the
fund manager and of course implications
of the fact that we don't take on too
much risk when we try to generate that
extra return through the evaluation or
the performance evaluation process of
let's say running a fund. So if we set
this down into a number of steps, we
just look here on the next page. We're
going to break down pretty much this
diagram with a few slides each. First
thing we're going to look at is say we
can measure what we call an absolute
return. Put simply, an absolute return
could be my portfolio has generated a
return of 10% for the year. absolute in
the sense that what I haven't done is
made a comparison as to whether or not I
feel that that's a good return or a bad
return. So the next step we'll take is
say well we can take that return and
make it comparable i.e what we call
relative and what we could do is compare
this now bit of terminology you might
see me use right so if I put this
abbreviation down RF riskfree rate of
return or it might be that my portfolio
is invested into equity and what I could
do is go and invest into let's say um
the UK market and that might be deemed
to be you see me write it RB this could
be a bench benchmark return that I can
compare against. We also said you know
we can't you just talk about return
unless we also kind of consider the risk
aspects of the portfolio. So like I
said, we've got what we call risk
adjusted returns and we'll look at some
sort of key risk adjusted metrics, sharp
ratio, trainer ratio, um and also you
we'll also have a chance to look at the
information ratio and just very quickly
you try to interpret you know whether
you know a higher or a lower ratio is
deemed to be good from a portfolio
perspective and then it's kind of almost
like you look back and say well can I
attribute you you know my performance to
certain aspects of the investment
process and what we'll look at is say
well can I break it down into stock
selection you could I break it down into
asset allocation decisions the first
thing we're going to look at said before
you know we may look at our portfolio
and ask the question what was my return
over a particular time period that
return on its own we often refer to that
as an absolute return um there There are
several different types of return
measure. Probably one of the easiest to
understand and and to understand and get
your head around is the concept of total
return. Okay. So very simple example. I
decide to go and buy a share 100 of your
currency of choice. A period of one year
elapses and then at the end of the year
I find that the share is priced at 110.
Let's say I decide to sell it. Now you
can see that what's happened is that
over that period of one year there has
been an increase by 10. Right? So what
we could do is say that increase of 10
could be regarded as what we call the
capital component of my return. Now, if
I expressed that as a percentage return,
taking the 10 that I've just generated
in terms of a capital gain, expressing
it as a percentage of the original price
that I paid, which is 100, that's 10 /
100. You can see there that's going to
be a return, right? Which is equal to
10%.
Right? Right? And we often refer to that
as the capital component return of your
total return if you like. That's a
capital gain because you've invested
into a company. The company's generated
profits and pay them a dividend. So what
we could also have in this example is
the fact that over the period of one
year they received a dividend payment of
one. Take the dividend you received of
one. Express it as a proportion of the
price that you paid for the share which
is 100 gives you a return of 1%. That's
the income component of your return. And
in which case you can then say that your
total return will be the 10% capital
gain that you've made plus the 1% income
return the form of the dividend. In
which case your total return is 11%. But
the question is saying well is that
good? Is that bad? So what we're going
to do is say well it's all well and good
to look at what we call absolute
returns. You know what we need to do is
to make some sort of comparison. So the
idea of relative is making a comparison.
Okay. Now the classic example is to
compare the performance of my portfolio
against a benchmark. And kind of
classically we'll find that there will
be you people like index providers
we've got the Footsie series the S&P so
standard and pause um and many different
providers who will provide kind of if
you like benchmarks that show snapshots
of the market in different areas so that
what you could do is compare the
performance of your portfolio against
the benchmark. So it's kind of saying
well if I was and again you may have
seen this terminology before a fund
manager may use the benchmark for
assessment
right because
my objective as a fund manager could be
that I want to be better right than
someone else. So this idea that a lot of
fund managers may engage in what we call
active fund management and kind of put
simply there is that your objective is
to try to beat everyone else and what
you're trying to do is to beat the
market. So the idea is is that by using
these relative returns you we often
refer to the benchmark as being the
opportunity cost because using the skill
of Tom the alternative could be just to
track the Footsie 100 and say well let's
compare Tom's performance against the
Footsie 100. Some investors believe that
all they want to do is invest what we
call passively. they want to track the
performance of a particular market in
which case a benchmark could be
specified and say well I want to
construct a portfolio that mimics the
Footsie 100. So you want your
performance to track the performance of
the Footsie 100. So how does a fund
manager select appropriate benchmark to
compare the portfolio against? Well, a
lot of that will kind of stem from the
objectives of the fund manager. And this
is where you'll find that the kind of
world of indexes or indices is massive
because you know people can break down
into different styles. Yeah, I'm a value
investor or I'm a growth investor. So by
trying to determine where you believe
you're going to add value will then help
you to determine what would be the
appropriate benchmark for your
portfolio. So the idea that you know
what would be some of the factors that I
would need to consider when I do choose
my kind of benchmark. Well, few things
just a few kind of concepts if you like
investable
right we want the benchmark that I
choose to be comparable okay has to be
transparent well the footsy 100 as an
example is transparent it's the top 100
companies by market capitalization okay
that determines what waiting what each
company makes up in the index and and
that's transparent and this is the kind
of classic bias say, well, my return for
the year was 11%.
I'm going to choose a benchmark at the
end of the year to compare my
performance against. Yeah, you know
what? I'll choose the benchmark that has
the lowest return because it makes me
look better. So, the idea that you
should really choose your benchmark
before the period of investment. So you
kind of pre-specify at the beginning of
the investment period your benchmark so
it avoids any kind of bias of selection
that you do it on a kind of a post
basis. Um we've mentioned there that
there can be different types of
benchmark out there and broad market
more narrow defined set of stocks maybe
10 or so bond market real estate market
hedge fund market like I said big market
out there trying to determine what would
be um you know uh an acceptable
benchmark what we try to do what could
be appropriate reward to risk ratios for
an equity portfolio right so put simply
I've got the return of my portfolio. The
RP return of portfolio. Um my portfolio
return. I'll make up a new number now
just because again I'm going to do this
in my head. Right? Return of portfolio
is 10%. Compare this against the
alternative which could have been just
to put your money into a bank account
earned a form of interest which is a
risk-free rate of return. You can see
here you've got this kind of excess
return. Let's say the risk-free rate is
2%. Again I'm making that number up. and
10 minus 2 I've outperformed the
risk-free rate by 8%. Happy days. Right
now the top of that equation which you
call the numerator you know what would
you want that to be of course right I'll
answer that that's patronizing right you
want the return of a portfolio to be as
high as possible the bottom part of that
equation is a form of risk what we call
standard deviation of a portfolio so put
simply you know if over a fouryear
period year one return was 12%
year two return was 8% % then it was 12%
in the third year, right? 8% in the
fourth year, right? No tricks. What is
my average return over that four year
period or my average return? Just simple
average, right? Add them all up, divide
by four. You can kind of see it with the
numbers that I've chosen being nice and
easy. That's a 10% average return. But
can you see that each year it was above
average? 12% was greater than the
average of 10. The second year 8% was
below the average by two. So the kind of
concept of standard deviation is it
represents the average deviation
away from what we call the mean return.
The mean return is that 10%. Okay? And
that was plus two in the first year 12
versus 10. It was minus two in the
second year 8 versus 10. So the average
deviation is 2%. So one key risk metric
on portfolios is to measure the standard
deviation of the returns. And of course
if that's risk, you're inclined, you
know, rationally to maximize returns.
You're hoping to try to minimize the
risk that you take on to achieve those
returns. So if you can make the top part
of that equation as high as possible,
the bottom half to be as small as
possible, then that causes that ratio,
the amount of return above the risk-free
rate for each unit of risk you take on.
So the sharp ratio, the higher the
better. So the idea that you can start
to make comparisons between yourself and
let's say could be a peer fund manager
to say, well, am I better than the
person next to me? Well, I could do so
through something called the sharp
ratio. Now, other metrics, don't you
rely on one. I mean, this is just a
selection of many that are you can kind
of come across. These are some of the
key ones that you might hear of along
the kind of grapevine. This one here is
what we call the trainer ratio. You've
got no change on the top, but what
you'll notice now is that there are
several different risk measures.
Standard deviation is just one of them,
right? So another form of risk that you
can use on a portfolio is to meas uh to
measure what we call the beta of the
portfolio. Put simply if this is a form
of risk
then you want the risk to be as low as
possible for the return that you
generated. So again just put simply
before I explain this kind of concept of
the beta the trainer ratio being as high
as possible again you know could be a
good thing. Lastly I'm going to show you
is the idea that if Tom was skillful,
okay, he had an information ratio that
was really quite high, right? So
tracking error was really low, the
information ratio was really high. Then
what a lot of people often do at the end
of the year is they'll say, well, why
was Tom so good? you know what were or
what were the sources of return that we
can attribute his performance against
and that could be down to my stock
selection abilities, asset allocation
decisions, it could be stock selection
decisions, currency exposure, sector
selection, the kind of list goes on.
people will engage in performance
attribution and again this is where
we're actually jumping from investment
foundation certificate to you CFA level
three where they've got this in the
syllabus and there's also um we have the
CIPM qualification here or certificate
at the CF institute which is very much
focused on things like return
attribution where we can take a
portfolio and try and break it down into
sources of return asset allocation
N% of outperformance
versus stock selection of 1%. But what I
thought I would just show you here is
again I've just kind of got this is um
quite a standardized what we call return
attribution model. Okay, the BHB model
or the Brinston Hood and Bala model.
Okay,
where we can try to break down our
sources of return. So see if you can
follow me on this, right? So at the top
here, see the top table, this is my
portfolio. Okay, my portfolio split
between two asset classes, shares i.e.
equity and bonds. And we have my
portfolio. So portfolio waitings. So 60%
of my money has been put into shares.
40% of my money has been put into bonds.
By comparison,
the benchmark allocation is just doing a
5050 split. I have done something
different to the benchmark. Now, the
wording would be 60 in shares versus 50,
right? Which is benchmark. I have
overweighted shares.
I have underweighted bonds, right? So,
that's what we call an asset allocation
decision. So what we could do is say
well that asset allocation decision can
be reflected as part of your
outperformance because my portfolio see
there has returned a total of 7.4%
which is greater than my benchmark which
is 5 a.5%. So what we could do is we can
measure the allocation effect by saying
take Tom's portfolio weight there in
blue. Compare it to the benchmark which
is in green. That's going to be a source
of return. If we assume that we have the
benchmark return in shares and the
benchmark return in bonds because I
would choose an equity benchmark and the
bond benchmark which I could just put my
money into without any stock selection
decisions. the differences in return for
that portfolio would be down to asset
allocation decisions and that drives the
asset allocation that you see there.
Then what I find is that my portfolio
for shares exceeded okay the benchmark
which is 10 the bonds 2% return was
greater the benchmark of one because the
composition of my portfolio return for
equity and bonds was different to the
benchmark because of stock selection
decisions that has been built into the
0.5 and the 0.5 there of the selection
effect right which is also a source of
my total difference in return of 7.4
versus 5.5 which is a difference of 1.9
and therefore that's made up of what we
call the allocation effect and the
selection effect. You can just see there
that stock selection is choosing stocks
different to the benchmark. Allocation
decisions are differences in my you know
um decision to go into equity versus
bonds. And I thought, you know what,
it's worth showing you those sort of
numbers there rather than just say,
okay, here's a graph. You've done well
through stock selection, stock selection
versus asset allocation without showing
you the sources of those returns. And
that's what I wanted to kind of finish
on.
