What do you learn from your time with
Peter? What are the things that have
stuck with you?
Oh gosh, so many things. He's always
He's always approaching the world from
some kind of like orthogonal perspective
and finding new ways to pick apart the
most important reasons for things. So
every time I see him, I learn something.
Uh you know, I I I I wrote this piece on
mine a while ago like with my team about
15 years ago. It's like main lessons
from Peter Thiel. So I won't I won't
repeat all of them here, but there were
nine key lessons. I think one of them
was to really value intelligence really
highly. I think that was absolutely key.
And so it just turns out the very
brightest people matter a lot. Um one of
them was you have to break down like the
actual reasons for things and their core
components and usually the number one
reason should be like much bigger than
everything else. So if you tell me I
have four reasons for doing this
business thing, it means you haven't
really thought about it enough. There's
probably like one thing that's dominant.
Mhm. Those were really big. One thing
that he always talked about was that uh
effort on any project is convex. And
what convex means is a shape of a curve
where if you spend like 80% of your time
focus on something, that's maybe half as
good as spending 90% of your time focus
on something cuz those that last bit of
effort. And like it's it's one of those
things where like being 99% tile is
worth so much more than being 90th
percentile also because that means
you're the number one. And being number
one is worth a lot. So there's there's a
a lot of things like that that you you
just kind of gave me all these concepts
that we all kind of learn when we work
with them. Do you find it difficult to
not divide your attention in that way?
You
>> It's very very hard and I think the most
important things I've accomplished has
been when I've been able to really focus
on something for a while. And then
whether it's Palantir, whether it's
Addepar, whether that's spending months
on a thesis at a VC and a framework at a
VC that we're going to work on for our
investing. Yeah, it is really important
to focus. And and you know,
you get to a certain point where you I
have obviously a lot of financial
resources now, a lot of influence in the
world. And so I'm able to help others
who are focusing, but anything I invest
in or do it has to be someone really
amazing is making it their main thing.
And so someone the CEO has to be all in
and you know, for for the things I do.
Right. So
an advice for talent is to not divide
your focus at all. You really just need
to like be courageous. I think I think
the a lot of people in our culture
nowadays, a lot of them want to do
incubators or they just want to do a
fund never having built something or
they just want to say I'm going to help
five different projects. And that that's
actually kind of like a form it's a it's
a type of cowardice. It's a type of
saying I'm afraid
>> I'm afraid to go all in. I'm afraid to
say this is the best and I'm going to
crush it. And like 99.9% of the people
who are crushing it and who are changing
the world and who are really, you know,
building the future of our civilization,
they're they're focusing on something.
How do you come to think about risk?
It's sort of um built into the
conversation around courage is fear and
uncertainty and risk and dealing with
risk and stuff like that. How do you
assess it? You know, I think we're all
really lucky today versus the past. I
think it is true that that the
conditions under which all of us
evolved, if you go all in on something
and you fail, you might have starved to
death. You might have been eaten by
lions or some kind of giant old cave
bear. You might have been crushed by the
local tribe. So I think we all evolved
to have existential risk and to be
really afraid. And it's not that it's
great not to have money in our society.
I can't I can't speak to that.
Obviously, it's not not great. But come
on, like we're it's not it's not like
3,000 years ago where you might just get
you might just die if you don't see. So
I think I think there is enough of a
safety net. At least it's easier for me
to say that coming from a middle class
family when I grew up that I knew my
parents would be able to take care of me
if something didn't work out. So
obviously I had some privilege, but I
think a lot of people with that
privilege still aren't willing, you
know, to take the risk they should be.
What about obsessing over perfection?
Something else that I think Peter
>> That's That's very big on. 100% that
really ties into the 99.9% tile thing is
like getting something just to be the
absolute best. I remember working with
him
when I was 21 years old and there was
some speech was going to go on in New
York the next day and we were like
basically pulling an all-nighter with a
few of the guys in the office to be
ready to like have this thing was it was
about inflation versus deflation and the
risks for both of those. And it was just
it was just a natural thing to do to
just try to make it like absolutely
perfect before we're going to go present
to the investors. And it was really
funny. Actually was with Ken Howery
who's the ambassador now to Denmark. He
was ambassador to Sweden last time. He's
a good friend who's who's who's who's
our age and very successful behind the
background. We were just like going back
and forth with him and a few others just
like working hard and then jumping on
the plane and sleeping on the plane on
the way over. And it's just like
everything has to be as good as possible
and pushes you pushes hard as possible.
Which and and if there's something was
wrong, he he would be like this totally
unacceptable.
>> Mhm. How do you avoid that from holding
you back? Uh because perfectionism can
be procrastination sort of masquerading
as quality control. Like you know, the
classic West Coast move fast break
things mentality.
Is there a tension between these?
>> 100% I think if you have really tight
fast deadlines, it's probably good. So
had to be as perfect as possible given
that it was coming due in the next day.
But we did we weren't going to be able
to work on it for 5 weeks, right? So I
think I think there is something about
about really making things as strong as
possible, but but sprinting and having
really tight deadlines and getting it
done right away. I think I think if you
use perfection as procrastination, then
it becomes a problem.
>> Mhm. Yeah. Well, I'm I'm still
interested in this sense of not getting
distracted and trying to keep the main
thing the main thing, especially if your
main thing becomes a varied thing.
Right? Like built into a lot of people's
lives, especially as they end up getting
to the kind of place that they want to
is where you don't have to do things you
don't want to do that much anymore. No
one tells you what to do.
So you end up in a world where you
think, well,
I get to choose. But with that comes a
lot of responsibility cuz I have to
choose now as opposed to before where I
just sat on the set of train tracks.
It's got do I want to go left or do I
want to go right? The same for yourself.
Do I want to invest in it or should I
sit down and spend 6 months working on a
thesis? Um
what about the skill set of learning to
sort of let go
of what was there of how you operated
previously, the sort of courage to
to do something new even as you've got
something that's giving you success in
the past.
>> No, it's it's totally right. You do have
to constantly keep adjusting for what
makes sense today. And it's it's
interesting. There's different versions
of this. One version is as you're
successful, something you would have
been really excited about before, you
have to be like I don't have time for
that now. And it cuz all of a sudden you
could just have things you were really
excited about before 10 times a day. And
I I I do fall into this myself sometimes
cuz there's lots of really exciting
things to do. And you have to So it's
like really hard to say no enough. When
you go through periods where you don't
say no enough, you might be feel like
you're getting stuff done but not
actually getting things done. And that's
that's it's really tough.
But you know what you said what you said
earlier uh about like things you don't
want to do, to me that's like one of the
most important things that we focus on
is what do you like to do? And as you're
successful, you should probably mostly
only do things you like to do cuz what
what what what what what like to do
means to me anyway is that it's like
stimulating your entire brain, right? So
if you look at like a grandmaster chess
player and the very best chess players,
when you map out their brains when
they're playing, there's always emotions
that are turned on. There's always full
parts of their brains that are turned on
and it lets them be a lot better at what
they're doing. And I think this is true
in anything we do. If you really love
it, then your whole mind is engaged and
you're just able to bring like this this
power to bear on things that if it's
something you don't really like, you're
probably never going to have just that
top top ability there, you know. Mhm.
It's almost matching up with what you
said about being sort of the 99th
percentile within an industry,
accumulating the 99% of your brain power
onto this.
>> You have to you have to be obsessed and
love something. And like this is not to
say that like everyone should only do
things they love to be successful cuz
you got to do all the grunt work, too.
But then once you have a certain level
of where you are, you should structure
your company and structure your life
where you do the parts that you love and
you're good at and other people could do
the parts, you know, that you're as good
at that you don't love. Joe Hudson uh
who has just become the head of human
performance at OpenAI. Uh he's like kind
of an underground hero coach type
person. I mean, where the coach has got
a lot of icky
uh associations with it, but this guy's
legit. Really really great. And
he says enjoyment is efficiency. And
that's kind of
yeah, I think referencing what you're
talking about here, which is if you
absolutely love something, it takes
fewer inputs to get more outputs.
>> 100%. You can get into the flow. You
could just be great if you love it. And
and so that's that's how you should
structure your life as much as possible
is what are the things that you love,
that you're good at, that are worth
doing. And that's and do more of those
and do less of the things you don't
like. And but but have someone else do
them if if they're necessary.
