I went on TV but it didn't go
as planned.  Indeed, there are
probably many of you who
have seen it.  I appeared on M6 in
the Capital program, except they tried
to make me out to be a
scammer.  They tried to make me look like a
dishonest person.  They
simply defamed
me.  And that's why today I'm going to
reveal everything to you.  I'm going to
reveal the whole truth about this
report.  How it happened,
how they came to
defame me, how they did it
, what their method was.  In
this video, I'm going to reveal everything that happened,
and I think you
deserve it.  Indeed, I won't get
2 million listeners like M6, that's for
sure.  However, the people who
will see this video are people who
follow me, people who are more
or less in my community, who are
on YouTube, in my field.  And so
, I think it's really
important for you to
reveal the truth to yourself.  So, it all started on
March 12th when I received this message
from a journalist from M6 who told me that he was
filming a report on Le Boncoin and
that therefore in this report, he
would like a part on buying and reselling
and after some research in fact, you
come across me quite quickly.  So he's
talking about buying and reselling on Le Boncoin.
So, to tell you the truth,
when I received that message, I wasn't exactly thrilled, thinking,
"Let's go, let's
go."  My first reaction, I
think you can imagine,
was really "I'm going to refuse his
offer. I'm not going to appear
in this TV report. I don't think
I'm going to take it from anyone here.
We're all children of the internet."
Everything that has happened between the internet
and television is often very
incompatible.  These are two worlds that don't get along very well
.  Television has often
tried to put down our community and so on.
And me, on top of that, with this
online business aspect and all that, I thought
they were going to destroy me.  So quite simply,
my first reaction
was, I'm not going to accept.  Perhaps what I should have
done was to
maintain my position of not
accepting it.  But anyway, after some
discussions with people around me,
I think that maybe
I should give TV and so on a chance
.  I also see that it's a capital program
from M6 and it's not like a "Complément
d'enquête" type program.  Capital is a
somewhat liberal program where they talk about business,
entrepreneurship, and so on.  So
I scheduled a call with this
journalist and during the call, the
guy was practically making a sales call.
Like, he reassures me, he tells me
things that you'll see won't be
kept later.  Yeah, it was
definitely a misleading sales pitch,
now that I
know what happened.  But at the time
, I thought I was going to be able to get on
TV.  There you go, that's what will
please my family who do
n't necessarily understand what I do on the
internet, how I earn so much
money and so on.  So, first of all, I think that will
please them.  I think
I'll be able to bring value
to more people.  I will be able to introduce people to
buying and reselling on Le Boncoin
and so on.  I will also be able to talk about
myself, what I do on the internet, the
videos I offer for free on
YouTube, the training courses for those who
want to go further, and so on.  I
think that in fact we can get something positive out of it,
make it a win-win situation, I can give
value to these journalists and in return
obviously get some visibility and
so on.  In fact, I think we can
achieve a win-win situation and the guy
on the call obviously, well, like I
said, it's almost a sales call.
So as soon as I have an objection, he will
dismantle it, he will resolve that
objection.  So in the end, I said to myself, well
listen, let's go, we'll go,
we'll see what happens.  And what's more,
he asks me about it because I
suppose he didn't have a huge number of
people for this report on students from
my course.  So someone who is
in training, who makes money
by buying and reselling on Le Boncoin, and
it would be interesting to have their
testimony and so on.  So I thought,
yeah, that's great, I'll be able to
show that my students
actually make money and so on.  So I
give him a guy, which he's happy to do
at the time.  Obviously, this is followed by a
lot of messages about organizing
with the guy and so on.  I
really try to make things extremely
clear because now it's
more than just me.  I also involved
a student from the training program who is
also young.  So, I really need to do
things extremely carefully here.  So there were a lot of
messages exchanged with this
journalist, and finally came that
famous day of filming.  So we can
see the messages, I'm downstairs,
open up for me, and so on.  So I
open the door for them.  I even filmed while they were
there because I didn't want it to
just be their camera.  In fact, I didn't have
complete confidence either.  I wasn't
extremely naive.  So I
still recorded the day of filming to
have what I actually said on
the day of filming and honestly the
filming is going rather well.  I am therefore
this journalist and his cameraman.  The
guys weren't asking trick questions.   There are actually
no
trick questions or things to
incriminate me and so on.  So frankly I
come away from this day of filming
very happy because I delivered
a lot of value.  I see that it was
n't a tracknard.  The journalist actually
asked very relevant questions
for the report regarding
buying and reselling on Le Boncoin and
so on.  So I'm super happy.  I'm well aware that he's
not going to give me as much
time to talk about
training and so on, but there's
no problem so far.  And then the
weeks go by, I know the guy is
editing and so on, but I also see
that the date of the report is starting to
come quite quickly in fact, without me even realizing it
, the report was on the 26th I think
and it's the 23rd and he still hasn't sent me
the V1 of the report.  What he
actually told me was,
"Yes, don't worry, we'll
send it to you beforehand. You have image rights
to this. If you don't like it, we wo
n't broadcast your part, and so on."  Well,
obviously, that would be stupid and so on, it would piss
us off.  But if you don't like it
, we won't broadcast your part.  We
can blur you, we can do things
like that, but in any case, we'll send you version
1 before it's published.  And that's
one of the things that made me
accept it, that in fact, it's not about
filming and then being unknown and
discovering.  Except that, in fact, that's what happened
.  Days go by, I
send him messages asking if he has a V1?
Because you have stuff and all,
I see that the guy is starting to stutter
and in fact the guy never gave me
the report.  I did
n't even want the report, just my
appearance.  I wanted to see what
would be published in front of 2 million
people.  And in fact, he
really told me word for word, "Yes, yes, it will be
sent, don't worry, you
will receive the things, you stuff and so on.
Yes, yes, we will send it to you before it is
broadcast, you will receive everything. You
can judge, you can tell us if
it suits you and so on."  And in fact, the guy
never sent me.  So now I'm
clearly starting to feel that there's
a catch.  If the guy doesn't send me
, it's because things are starting to
smell bad.  And on top of that, the guy
just before had the nerve to tell me, "So
I have the messages."  I think that after the
broadcast, many people will want to
join the training program.  The guy has the
nerve to tell me that, but with what's
going to happen next, no one's
going to join the training and I'm
just going to look like a scammer in front of
2 million people.  And so the
broadcast takes place and obviously I have a
very bad feeling and what had to happen,
happened.  The first
part is pretty good.  So the
very first part is actually
that of my student who makes €1000 per
month and so on.  So we see him in his
process of assembling, disassembling, and
selling PCs because, for those who don't
know, it's buying and reselling on
Le Bon Coin in the niche of PCs and
PC components.  So we see him going through the
whole process, we see that he's
a young man, you know, who's making
money, who's very happy to make
€1000 a month thanks to this business
because I really only make
realistic promises and that's
reflected in it.  So I'm happy about that.
You can see that the guy was able to buy himself
a new screen, he was able to upgrade his PC,
he bought himself a new chair and so on,
and he's very happy.  So
this whole part was great and above all
I'm so happy because he was
obviously so happy to be in
the report but it was me who put him in there
.  I'm the one who put him in there,
so I didn't want things to go
wrong, actually.  I didn't want the
guy to get torn apart on TV and
so on.  I'm the one who put it there.  So
I had this responsibility even though
obviously there was the agreement of his
parents.  He was overjoyed to be featured
in the TV report and so on.
But there it was, I had this responsibility deep down inside,
and so I was too
happy.  His visit went perfectly.
So he leaned on the trainer.  So, I'm the one who
trained this student who makes
€1000 a month and that's the first part.  Okay,
it's fine, it uses phrases
like "We find Zaii" in the
nice neighborhoods.  Well, I don't know
why he's specifying that, but anyway, so far so good,
and I actually see everything we
filmed that day.  So, no
surprises at all, as I
told you on the day of filming, there were no
trick questions.  I didn't do anything, I didn't
say anything stupid, there wasn't really anything wrong on
the day of filming, it
went very well, and in fact, this is the
whole part of the day of filming and
so on.  So, that's perfect.  And then, all of a
sudden, a member of our
team infiltrated the training and
followed it, and so on.  And so, there's
a long illustrated voiceover sequence,
so not at all the day of filming
we did.  In fact, I realize
that one of the guys from their
M6 team had joined the training and had actually
followed it, but like, in a completely haphazard way
.  And so it ends with a
balance where he is in the negative because he
paid the price of the training and
he did not make more with the
buy-and-sell business than the price of the
training.  So, of course, I
recognize him; I
personally support everyone in their
training, I guide them from A to Z.
Personally, I recognize the guy, and that's where
it gets
interesting.  I have the entire conversation
with this guy and so I'm going to
reveal everything to you.  So we have this
famous Clément without a banner, without anything,
who contacts me on Discord after
joining the training.  So that's perfectly
normal.  In the training, there is a
whole section where I explain how
the support will take place, that
generally it can take place on
WhatsApp but I like to do it on
Discord.  I'm giving you my Discord username,
add me.  And that's where we can
do all the support via messages,
calls, and so on.  And so, I have this
Clément who I clearly saw join
the training program, which adds me.  And in fact,
first of all, the profile was created on
March 26, 2026. That's extremely suspicious,
especially since the guy isn't 8 years old, he's
over twenty and
he just created his Discord account.
Well, why not?  So the guy
contacts me to ask how things are going with the
Switch, I explain everything to him.  I
make him a one-minute voice message to
explain how it's going to work, what we're
going to start with, the business plan,
how we're going to make money, what
exactly is the first thing he's going to have to
buy, the first thing he's going to have to
resell, at what price he's going to
buy it, at what price he's going to
resell it, how he's going to manage to
get it at that price, how he's going to manage
to resell it at that price and so on and so forth
.  So he told me he has a budget
of €100.  So it's quite tight, but
we're within the limits.  You can make
money even with as little as €50.  And so
, I can already see that the guy, I don't
even know if he's read about training.  He told me,
for example, if I buy an RTX for €60.
That doesn't mean anything, actually.  An RTX, that's what it
literally
means.  An RTX is the prefix in front of
a model.  An RTX, there are
loads of them, there's the RTX 2060, 2070,
2080. Uh, it's like he's telling me
"Get me a €60 iPhone."  Yeah,
but iPhone, you see, it's
literally the prefix.  So first of all, I
wonder if the guy has even read the training.
But listen, why not?  I accompanied
guys who knew nothing about it, and
really from A to Z, I accompanied them even though they knew
nothing about it, and we
always succeeded.  Honestly, nothing alarmed me
at that moment.  I'm in
"Let's go, we'll go with him, we'll
explain that RTX is actually a
prefix, that there are RTXs, buying an RTX doesn't
mean anything. In fact, you need to know
which RTX because there are some that you buy for
€1000 and there are some that you buy for €50."
So it's really important to
add something, to add the
number that goes after RTX.  So, I
told him, as indicated in the training,
that an RTX 2060 should be bought for a
maximum of €60 and that we will resell it for
between €100 and €130.  Obviously, depending on
when you want to resell it,
at €100 it will sell much faster
than at €130.  And so, he asks me for a
call.  To which I reply,
yes, let's go, we'll
call each other bro, there's no
problem.  It's part of
the support.  I take the time to
make one-on-one calls if the guy has
any questions, if he wants us to actually do some
buying and
selling together, etc.  So I
took the time to make a long call
that lasted almost an hour.  You should know
that generally when I accompany
members in training, it's usually about
30 minutes and generally in 30 minutes
we cover everything we
wanted.  So, I'm really taking the time
to make a 1-hour call because
the guy literally hasn't read
the training and so on.  And I ca
n't tell him, "Bro, didn't you read the
training? Go on, hang up and
apply yourself a little."  I told him
anyway, after our call, go check
the training, if there's a lot of
value in it, you have that, you didn't even know that
.  So I know that you haven't seen this
module, you haven't watched
this video in the training and so on.
Uh, so here, I understand, actually no,
the truth is that I don't understand anything at
this moment.  I'm just accompanying a student
in my training, that's all.  But looking back
, yes, I can see that
this guy is actually one of the least
involved guys I've ever had.  And actually, looking back,
I realize that uh, he
never read the training.  Like he never even
watched the training.  Perhaps
he skimmed over it, but he never really
focused on the
training.  And there were plenty of times when
he was asking me things
and I was like, "Oh yeah, so you did
n't see this module, you didn't watch
this video and all that."  Then, the guy
comes back to me the next day with a
new card.  The description says, "
First line of
description, three broken graphics cards,"
and the guy sends me a message saying, "Hey,
I have a guy who accepted my offer of €60,
but I assume that's €60 per RTX,
and I saw in the comments
that they're in bad condition. Do you
advise me to buy them,
pass them up, I need your opinion,
etc."  The guy sends me this even though
the first line of the description says
three graphics cards are
dead.  So there, actually, once again,
I don't really understand anything at that
moment, I'm just accompanying someone
and so I explain to him that it says
HS.  So obviously the
cards don't work and so on, but
with hindsight.  So I understand that
the guy just wanted to buy, but the
worst possible thing so as not to make any
money.  And in fact, if I hadn't
guided him properly, he would have bought the
three faulty graphics cards and then
in his report, he could have
said "I lost money,
it didn't work at all" when he
just bought three faulty graphics cards,
like.  So there it is, I reply
with a 45-second voice message where I
tell him €60 just for the 2060 would be
worse, but in fact you can see they
are broken so it doesn't work.  He
replied OK, so I said no, no need
to buy myths later on for resale.
So basically, he wanted to test whether
I was a scammer or not.  I realize
afterwards he wanted to know if
I was going to tell him "Go ahead, buy the HS,
we'll resell them pretending
everything is fine, we're going to scam people."
So in this case, the guy wasn't
stupid, he was able to read HS.  Obviously,
he's not stupid, he's over 20,
he has a beard and so on.  It's just that,
as I told you, the guy
wanted to buy this and be in "damn,
the information doesn't work at
all" mode, and on top of that, he's
scamming people by
buying products that don't work
and reselling them, making them believe that they do
.  He literally told me
OK, so no need to buy and then lie about it when
reselling.  So I told him
no no we're not lying at all we're not going to lie
to anyone and so on.  Finally he
came back one last time the next day
to show me a deal where he
managed to get a 2060 for €80.  And so here
it's borderline because the
maximum purchase price that is
literally indicated in the training
is €70 but well it can happen in
fact the prices I give I
always leave a lot of margin so that we
are sure to always make a profit.
So for example this card he says you have to
buy it for a maximum of €70 and
resell it for around €120 so as I
said between €100 and €130 so we
see that there is still the margin there is
€30 40 50 profit.  So even if
we go up a little, in reality we're not going to
lose money, we're just going to
nibble away at our margin.  So even if
we buy it for €80,
instead of making like €50 in profit, we'll still
make €40 in profit.  So, I can see
that the guy is struggling a little bit, and
so on.  So I told him, "Let's go, that's
still €40 profit."  What exactly do I say to him
?  I told him, "There's
money, but it's tight."  I'm saying this is
a card that will resell for around
€110.  So there, I told him again that
a good resale price was really good.
And he said to me, "Ah yes, not €130."  And
you will see that later in the
report, in fact, he made people believe that
my resale prices were
not good because he
listed it at €120 and took a long time
to resell it.  So,
literally, I'm telling him that it's a
card that he'll resell for around
€110, so realistic/
quick resale and so on.  No, he preferred to
set it to 120 and let it take a little
longer.  Why not?  But as a result,
you're not using it against me in the
report.  So, in the end, I
told him that it was pretty borderline and
I said, "Go ahead, close it at €75."
So in fact, literally, cutting the
door in half because there, in the
negotiation, he had offered 70,
the seller offered him 80 and so the
most logical thing to end up on
a deal is generally to cut the
door in half.  But it's something that
works very, very well.  Uh, so then
I told him, "Go ahead, close it at €75, that way
you'll only be over by €5 and it's really fine then
."
Then he asks me questions again
which show me that he has
n't read the training.  We're moving on now
, I'm used to it and
finally he tells me that it's good, the
guy accepted the offer at €75 and above all it's just
the beginning of a long
line in fact.  That's right, he joined
the training on the 26th and we're on the 1st. So
in fact in 5 days, he already has a deal
on which he will be able to make a few
tens of euros in profit.  Then
I give him some tips for
reselling that are in the training, but
since he hasn't read them, I have to tell him again
in the coaching and on top of that he's not
going to follow them afterwards.  So there you have it
, finally after a long
session where he struggles a bit to put
the ad online which is not normal and
several times I tell him to go see the
training because in fact in the
training there is a whole module on
how to publish an ad well with
the optimized things even a video on
how to publish an ad well where I
publish live with the optimizations
and the guy every time he asks me
questions which are in information and
all so I tell him to go see and all but
well I help him anyway.  Anyway,
after this whole session where
he still didn't get
the information, he managed to publish
the ad and I told him great,
send me the ad so I can give
feedback, send me what you did.
Generally, people send me
their ads.  There are always things
to correct, things for
SEO, things to optimize
to sell faster?  No response.
The guy never sends me the ad.
Did this announcement ever actually
exist?  I'll never know.  I've
never seen him.  The guy never
sent it to me.  That same day, I
told him, "Hey bro, I think it would be
good if we could do a climb tomorrow
if you want. Between 3pm and 7pm, let me know, I have plenty
of time and as always,
I'm really committed."  So there, I
offered him a call, like I had already done to several
people, because there was a
report that day and I wanted to
provide content for the report for
M6 where I accompany students and so on, to
give them value, and so
I went directly to him because I
saw that she was still quite struggling
and that with each call, I was
giving her a lot of value since he was
n't reading the training.  So, I
simply suggest a call for
support.  To which he
replied, I'm not very available
this week but next week works for me
.  So right now, I'm in OK mode, but it's still weird
.  He wants to waste a
week when now is the time to
make money.  You see, like,
now with hindsight, I
understand.  Looking back, there would have been
M6 cameras pointed at
me, the journalist and so on, and
I would have been doing a
support pass with the reinfiltrated patient.
So actually, I understand in hindsight,
but that's why he refused, it's
because in fact this guy was a [ __ ]
infiltrator from M6 and I was going to do
a day pass of the filming with
them, with the M6 ​​associates like.
So finally, we call each other on the 14th,
so an infinite amount of time later.  I
remind you that
he was the first to get the RTX 2060 deal.  So,
weeks later, we called each other.  So
, during this call, I can
give him the feedback that will make him
sell.  And why couldn't I
give it to him before? He never sent me
the ad.  He did not accept going to school
with me.  So naturally, it's only
weeks later that he gets the feedback
that leads him to actually sell the ad
.  And so literally the
day after that call, the 15th, it's
good, it's sold, let's go for more money once again
with a gif that's very me, I
remain in my role of escort, we
move on to the next step.  He asks me to call him again
2 days later or we can
call each other directly, there is no
problem and I give him a summary of
everything he will have to do.  So
watch the video on top
1% negotiation in the training because yes, it's been
more than 3 weeks since he joined,
he still hasn't watched the training.
So I told him again, that's in
the information.  Look, my boy.  He told her
what search to do on Le Boncoin and
to send her the deal.  Send me the
things.  Like, I don't know, the guys I'm with send me
, they
need help, they need
confirmation stuff.  My brother is a ghost, and
now I understand better why he's
a ghost.  And so after that, that
was the 16th. No news
during the whole time.  The guy
cut everything, everything, everything, everything until the
report which was on the 26th, so more than
10 days later.  And then, on the 26th, I
find out and the guys are like,
"We have an infiltrator who joined the
training and didn't make any
profit. Uh, yeah, the guy
refused my calls, refused to
send me messages, refused to work, did
absolutely nothing, disappeared from the 16th to the
26th in the last 10 days."  In the
report, what do these guys say?
They say, "For 3 weeks, our
undercover agent was involved in the
training and so on, and he only made
€45 in profit."  But there, as
you saw, it's clear.  I showed you
message by message, date by date.  The
guy joined on the 26th, the first one, he
got a deal.  So, as planned
, the training involves giving such
concrete things that you can make money
extremely quickly.  So the first one, after
5 days, already had a deal.  He
made a profit of €45.  It took him a
while to get it because he didn't
send me the link.  He didn't want to make a
collar and so on.  But the very next day, when
we were able to make a pass, he sold it.  So
he could have sold it much
faster, and then he disappeared again the whole time
.  So basically, he joined, he
made a deal, he disappeared for 2
weeks.  Well, when he reappeared
immediately, I managed to get him to
sell his graphics card and he
disappeared again for 10 days.  And the guys
in the report, they're like, "I do
n't understand, we were involved for
3 weeks and in the end, we saw nothing."
No, the guy was a ghost.  The guy's
only goal was precisely not to
make a profit so he could say that
in the report because
indeed it's the scoop of the year
to have a scammer in your report and
to boost ratings.  I wanted to believe
in humanity.  I wanted to believe
that I could add value, that
I could make a difference, that I could create a
win-win situation.  Actually no, these guys
just want to boost their ratings and human beings
are bad sometimes and I've had
proof of that once again.  And on top of that,
the worst of the worst, but
thank you for the content you give me
after you've screwed me over, at least I can
cling to that.  Thank you for the content
you provide for this video.  The guy came
back 4 days later after the
report.  So the guy is, oh no, 3
days later, the guy came back on the
29th. And so here you see, there's
nothing because the guy deleted the
messages.  But I'm not stupid.
I had obviously screenshotted what he had sent me
.  He comes back with: Hey
man, I had to leave your training
prematurely, how does
the refund work?  But guys, do
you realize?  [sigh]
To which I obviously reply, you've
got some extra ass, but what a bunch
of crooks.  I'm telling him that
literally because it's true, the
guy joined the training just as an
infiltrator who wanted to prove that
it didn't work, who wanted to do
everything to make sure it didn't work.
Yes, I give value.  All my
students in the training
benefit, but I'm not a magician.
If the guy in front of me
absolutely refuses to do anything, then it's certain
that it won't work.  And tell
yourself, tell yourself, there are guys who do
absolutely nothing.  What am
I supposed to do?  I find them a
pre-made deal, I send it to them, they
buy it, and they make a profit.  And
even that, I couldn't do because
the guy disappeared.  He was a [ __ ]
ghost.  I swear, sometimes there are
guys, they're not ghosts like him
and so on, but they're guys, they
really struggle.  Well, actually, I can see that they're having a
hard time.  I told them,
"Don't worry, I'll send you a
deal tomorrow."  and I send them something like, well,
as we just saw, I'm not going to say
more about the price and more about the
training, but as we saw for example
in this conversation, well, I don't know, the next day
I'm going to send them a
2060 that I managed to pre-sell
at €70, they're going to buy it and
they're going to be able to resell it for €120, and
even I sometimes give that, so even
I sometimes work in place of the
guys, but here I didn't even have
the opportunity, you see, the guy actually
just wanted to disappear and I
joined on such and such a date, on such and such a date I had made
€45 profit, saying that in the
report.  Yeah, but actually I'm
giving my side of the story
today and revealing what
really happened during those 3 weeks,
and therefore the truth about what you did, bro,
and the fact that you just didn't
want to make money.
Especially since, honestly, it's a bit of a shame
and a bit silly because,
literally, the segment before this is
literally my student who, at the
time of the report, was earning €1000 a month. He's
13 years old, he's making €1000 a month. You see
his computers, you see what he bought, you see
his stuff, you even see his mother
saying, "Oh, it's really cool that he's doing that
, it's his thing. You can
tell it's his thing, it's cool. I
follow him a bit, I try to help him with
that and everything, and they have the nerve to do
that. I mean,
I don't know, there's an inconsistency there
. You see my student who earns
€1000 a month, you see all the members.
Yes, because there's that too. The day
we filmed, they were asking me about the
results, all the stuff. 'Oh,
show me your students' results.'
And I tell them  I showed all the results,
and well, you can dream on thinking there was only one
of those results in the
report; it wasn't just one. Meanwhile,
all the members of the training program are
profiting. I'm not saying all the
members of the training program are making €3,000 a
month, but yes, all the
members of the training program are
profiting. All the members of the
training program are profiting. And the only one
who isn't profiting, strangely enough,
when I explain what happened
during those three weeks, strangely enough, you
understand why the guy didn't
profit. Not like they actually
say, not like, "Ah, he took the
training, he did this, he did that, he did
n't profit." And above all,
guys, the icing
on the cake is that my training is guaranteed.
And that's why he's asking me for a
refund. We'll come back to that later,
but the nerve of this guy, anyway, my
training is guaranteed. That means that
if you're not  If you don't make a profit, you get a
refund. And obviously, that's
also why my goal isn't to
refund everyone, otherwise I'd
already be homeless on the street. So, my goal is why
I put so much effort into making sure
everyone makes a
profit. Obviously, it's so that, on the
one hand, they make a
profit, they haven't wasted time
just trying to get a
refund, and that I haven't
helped someone, I've given them
value just to get a refund. That's why
I'm as involved as possible to make sure everyone makes a
profit. But if that's not the case, if
you don't make a profit, you get a
refund. Do you think they
said that during the report? Not at
all in the report. There's
just this son of a bitch's scale.
Training summary: +€45
profit, -€97 total subscription -€
52  €. Yes, but the training is
guaranteed ROI, so in fact you're at +
€45. If you're not in profit, you're
reimbursed for the subscription. The subscription
is reimbursed, so you're at zero on that.
Plus, you made €45 in profit,
so actually no. Total plus €45. But do
you think the guy
asked me for a refund before
the report aired and so on?
Not at all, nothing at all. And after the
report, 3 days later, "Hey man,
I had to leave your training
early."  How does
the refund process work?  But the
guy's nerve.  The guy tore me apart on TV, he
knows very well everything he did.  And
the guy isn't afraid of anything.  He has it, but the
guy isn't afraid of anything.  The guy has no
remorse, nothing.  He's asking me for a
refund.  So, I
replied to him, "But what a good crook!"  and
so forth.  Then he told me, "I just
took your training course
, but since you told me
that when we leave, you refund the
price of the training, I wanted to know how
it works
."
He obviously deleted the message, right?
We wonder why the guy has
nothing to reproach himself for.  No no, he has he has he has
I think he put the click like
he has it's a mistake.  Anyway.  And so
obviously I finally replied to him,
I sent him the screenshot of
that famous scale that absolutely
destroyed me in front of 2 million people on
Capital M6.  I hope the scale will be
updated with the smiling modits.
Oh no, we're definitely not going to say in
the report that the training is
guaranteed RI ROI for return without
investment and therefore we get a
refund if we are not in profit
which would have given a total of + €45.
No, we'll ask about that after the
report.  In addition, after thoroughly
trashing the guy and after thoroughly
defaming him in the report.  No, but
guys, please, I'm
just asking you to take some because there are
guys who have sent me
messages.  So, I was
bombarded with messages after the
report.  You are a scammer, you are a
thing, you are a whole.  I got a real
earful.  But guys, don't
always believe what you see on TV.  These guys are still
human beings with all the
flaws of human beings.  It's still
human beings with the most
[clears throat] screws possible
because these guys, they just want to
get an audience.  And what
makes an audience?  It's a drama.
These are things that get
people talking.  It's one of those things where when they
post a TikTok in the
comments, you have 50 guys
saying "Oh my god, this scammer, this
thing, he doesn't even do it."   Please
take a step back because right now
you can clearly see the true face
of these people.  So, what are these people, ultimately
?  It's a guy I spoke to on the
phone, a journalist who told me
all sorts of things to reassure me.
So he just keeps lying to me.
Things that were never kept.  The
guy never sent me the report
before it aired.  The guy has the nerve
to tell me, "Ah, we're going to sell
lots of training courses, don't worry."
No, I'm not sending you.  No, no, I'm
not sending you.  And on top of that, the guy keeps me
hoping until the very end, he keeps telling me
"Send your email and everything".  He never
sent me the report before it aired.
Just my excerpt, just my passage, he
never sent it to me.  Yet he is the one who
is literally in the montage.
He's an infiltrator whose sole purpose
was perhaps to find my screws.  At one
point he asked me, "Ah, we don't buy
if it's broken, we're not going to scam people." Ah,
he was sure there were RTX cards on Le
Bon Coin (a French classifieds site), he just wanted to find my
screws and above all, not make any money off
this thing. Not even reading the
training, making me repeat things
50 times, and all that. And then, to top it off,
asking me for a
refund after the report when
they know they were happy
to be able to put this scale down by €52
and so on, what did I want? What do
you want me to
say? How do you expect me to have
faith? So yes, it's not a big deal.
There you go, I've never needed
TV to live. I have my community, it's
on YouTube that it's most
important, and that's also why I'm
making this video for you because
you're the ones who deserve the truth. So yes, I would have
liked the truth to prevail
over the 2 million views.  People on M6,
but it's impossible. So here I am,
showing my own truth on this
YouTube channel, my right of reply, so to
speak. How can you expect me to have
faith in humanity after this? After a
journalist makes me a bunch of false
promises because he just wants me in
his report. What's more, he's quite
happy that I give him another guy
for his report. So, a student who
actually does buy-and-sell,
whom I mentored and so on, only to
end up not keeping any of his promises,
not even sending me the footage. Why,
why didn't he send me? Because, in
fact, he destroyed me in the
report. They're just about ready to
broadcast it. I asked him every
day from the 23rd to the 26th, every single
day, I said to him, "Do you
have a V1?"  Have you finished the
report and the editing?  Have you
finished here?  "Did you finish that?" The
guy doesn't see anything. I'm like this, uh,
Sunday night in front of MC,
discovering. I'm like this, bro.
Ah, I'm a scammer. Ah, thanks
guys. Well, it was cool, anyway, it was
cool guys to do a
day of filming, I give you
value, I give you a mega guy
for the report and so on. It's
cool, guys. Thanks for sending, and
I see the second part where there was
an infiltrator in my format. But what's
an infiltrator, bro? After the
report, I was like this, and I reread
the conversation, I was like, "Damn, that's why he
wanted to
trap me, that's why he didn't do anything
." And in the report I just
watched, they just said
that the guy gave it his all for 3
weeks, only for it not to work because
of the training. When in fact, the
guy was  A ghost was a ghost
for three weeks. And then, three days
later, the guy asks me for
a refund. I mean, come on, it was
a DM6 guy who hooked me up, and this
guy is asking for a refund. Do
you think he mentioned the
refund during the report? Not at all
during the report,
bro. This guy's just a
scammer, and we're never going to talk about refunds. Oh no, we're
not going to talk about refunds. What? If
they're not profitable, they
refund them. Oh no, no, we're not going to
say that. We're just going to say that our
undercover agent was in the red because
the training didn't work. So,
take a step back whenever there's
stuff on TV, stuff like that. It's
not the first time, I knew
what I was getting into. There are tons of
people, you know, I can
even talk about going outside the
business niche, like Squeezie
who was on the show, who's doing it.
Destroyed by
TV when, you see, he's just a
guy who makes video games,
entertainment. And me, on top of that, I
'm in the business niche, in that thing
and all, I almost practically asked for it
. So I knew what to expect,
but I wanted to believe it. I don't know,
I wanted to, I don't know, the guy seemed
really nice. We exchanged
phone numbers and so on. I wanted to
believe it. There you go, I showed some
naiveté. I wanted to believe it. I thought
it could
bring me something positive. It could
bring new people to my
YouTube channel and so on. I thought
I could also bring them
value, that it would be a pure
win-win. Here's the reality. He's a
dishonest journalist who
infiltrated someone into my training program
to defame me and who
simply lies. What he says is a
lie, or if that  It's not a
lie. In any case, he's quite
happy to say what suits him.
So, he doesn't actually say what happened
during the three weeks
of coaching with the guy, that the
guy disappeared for two weeks in the
middle and then disappeared from the 16th to the
26th—uh, until the broadcast of the report—
that the guy comes back the next day
asking for a refund, even though, no,
the report definitely doesn't
mention the refund. So there you have it,
take a step back from all this. I don't have
much more to say. I was
just disgusted by it all. It
really got me down. I got
hit with huge waves
of harassment, and sales
of my training dropped, obviously, which is
normal. Guys were sending me
things like, "Oh, you've got a scammer and
all that, what do you expect?" I could
n't even blame these guys, it's normal.
Even me, if I  I was watching the show as an
outsider, so they weren't talking about me, you know? If I were an outsider watching the show, well,
yeah, this guy's a scammer, this guy's
selling training with promises
that don't work, and so on. Plus, there's not even a
refund. I
couldn't even blame the guy,
you know? They were watching a
TV show. The only thing I can
blame them for is not even
giving time when there's drama.
You know, you always have to, even if
I know it always seems super
lucid and all, you always have to give the
other person time to respond. I do
n't know,
for example, I'll give you the example of Villebrequin
with Pierre who does his
nuclear bomb where he destroys Sylvain,
he says crazy things and all that, and then
everyone with Pierre, everyone's like,
"Oh yeah, Sylvain
's a son of a [ __ ]." And then
Sylvain  who takes the time to make a
good video a week later. And suddenly,
we have the truth, we have
Sylvain setting the record straight,
countering this defamation, and so on.
Please always allow time for a response
. Don't jump
in headfirst as soon as there's
buzz, drama, and so forth. I ca
n't blame you. Maybe I would have
done the same. Maybe I would have
believed it, maybe, well,
I would have sent a firm "
no," I wouldn't have sent a
message just to insult him and
call him a scammer, but
maybe I would have been wrong
too. Now you have the truth.
It was important for me to set
the record straight, so we can now turn the
page on this report, you have the
truth. What really happened,
yes, all the members in my training program
are all benefiting. I can
send you the results right away.
Damn, I used that expression in
2026. I can send you
results in every direction. I have too many
. I can't even display them all
on the school page. I don't even have enough
space to display them. There are so many
. All members are
profitable. If you're not profitable, you get a
direct refund. And that's why
I'm obviously very
transparent with you. My goal isn't
to refund everyone. So that's why
I'm so involved, and that's why everyone
is profitable.
Also, if I can find a bit of a
positive, they did follow
one of my students, literally
Valentino, who makes €1000 a month with
PCs. The guy is 13 years old, he's
not very involved, you know. You see, it's
2 hours a day and he manages
to make €1000 a month. And I have a lot
of guys like that in the
training.  Plus, it's just that
Valentino was one of the most insightful
on this point, and he's someone
I actually became close to. He
became a good friend after I worked with him,
and so on. Uh, but yeah, I have some
who are making €2,300 a month.
Personally, I even went up to
€4,000 a month. When I
told you earlier that not everyone will
make €3,000 a month, but yes, everyone
will be profitable, and that's the most
important result. I have examples of
all kinds. I have Félix
who took the time to make a
video testimonial about his return to the
training and how he reached
€1,000 a month in 30 days. So, honestly, damn,
we did something pretty good
. €1,000 a month
after the first month. It was
incredible. Uh, but there you go, I have tons of cases
like that.  There's
him, for example, off the top of my head, there's
Adam 77 who made, how much? €600
profit after 3 weeks. Anyway, there are tons of
guys like that. And
maybe not everyone,
but everyone's definitely making a
profit. Do you think
they would have said that in the report? Absolutely not.
Do you think they would have said
that the training is guaranteed
in the report?
Absolutely not. No, we're just going to say
things to defame him as much as possible
, destroy him as much as possible,
create a buzz and therefore get attention and
therefore earn more money, get our
bonuses, get our son-of-a-bitch stuff.
And there you have it, thank you very much for watching
this video, it was really, really important to me to
set
the record straight, to have my [ __ ]
right of reply. You see, I'm
facing a giant, M6, I came across
as a scammer in front of 2 million viewers.
People, like, it was hell. I was
literally made out to be a scammer in front of
2 million people. I got
tons of messages insulting me,
calling me a scammer, and all that stuff
after the report aired, and so on.
So, it's important for me to
make this video where I actually show
the truth, where I have this right of reply,
even if it's much less
impactful. You'll see that this video will
get a few hundred views. I
think it'll only get a few
hundred views. But those hundreds of
views are from people who follow me,
not 50-year-old guys who
saw a report on M6 and then, even though they're
50, these guys, these are real thugs, come and
insult me.
A 19-year-old guy comes and
insults me in private messages, and so on.
So, yeah, it was really important to me
. Now that I've done that, we
can move on. I can
continue to send you valuable content.
You  Don't worry, this isn't a channel
where I'm going to just sit here and
talk to you for hours. A guy in a
tank top, a cockroach like me,
talking to you for hours on camera
like this. Don't worry, there's plenty
of information about PCs,
PC configurations coming soon,
PC buying and reselling information,
PC components coming soon, lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of
videos in the works. Don't worry
. Thank you so much for
following me, thank you so much for watching
this video all the way through. It was
really important to me to do this,
and I'll see you very soon.
