[Music]
Welcome to Capital Decanted. In this
show, we say goodbye to tired market
takes and superficial sound bites.
Because here, instead of skimming the
surface, we dive into the heart of
capital allocation, striking the perfect
balance, and exposing the subtleties
that reveal the topic's true essence.
Prepare to have your perspectives
challenged as we open up the issues that
resonate with the hearts and minds of
those shaping capital allocation. We've
enlisted the wisdom of visionary leaders
in the industry. And just like a
meticulously crafted wine, we'll allow
their insights to breathe, unfurling
their hidden depths and transforming our
understanding.
This is season 2, episode 11 of Capital
Decanted. private equity from wizards to
artisans. I'm John Bowman
>> and I'm Aaron Philbeck.
>> A quick thank you as always to our
returning title sponsor, Alternatives by
Franklin Templeton. We're so grateful
they're back to partner with us. They've
got over 40 years of alt investing, over
260 billion of asset center management.
Their specialist investment managers
have expertise across six different
asset classes, real estate, private
equity, private credit, hedge
strategies, venture capital, and digital
assets. And of course, all of them
operate with the client first mentality
that has always defined Franklin
Templeton to help prioritize investment
outcomes. So, thanks again, Alternatives
by Franklin Templeton. I'm also
delighted once again, and we heard from
them a little bit earlier this season,
to introduce SLR Capital Partners as an
episode sponsor. SLR is an independent
boutique asset manager focused on direct
lending with expertise across a range of
primarily senior secured financing
solutions for US middle market
companies. From their roots as a cash
flow direct lender to sponsor owned
companies, the SLL platform has evolved
into a diversified commercial finance
solutions provider encompassing cash
flow, assetbased lending, and specialty
finance. So stay tuned to halftime where
we'll hear more from Michael Gross, one
of the founders of SLR and currently the
co-CEO.
Well Aaron, we have reached the end, the
series finale, the season finale I
should say, of Capital Decanted for this
exciting season 2. How are you feeling
about the end here?
>> I'm feeling pretty good. We've had a
good season so far, John.
>> It has been fun. It has been fun. And
you're going to hear a lot more from us
in the coming 60 days or so about what
our plans are in store to transform this
show for season 3. So I think some
exciting evolutions around the edges
that is going to make this even more
interactive and hopefully engaging. So
stay tuned for that. But today we are
once again, as has been the case many
times this season in particular, but
both seasons diving into a dramatic
transformation story. And today it is
the evolution of the swashbuckling
corporate raiders, the bootstrapping
deal junkies, the ruthless high yield
pirates, and their transformation to the
process savants, the roll up your
sleeves mechanics, the programmatic
value quarterbacks. This is the story of
how private equity over the course of
more than five decades has
metamorphosized from financial
engineering to operating artisanship.
The Institute of Private Capital, the
IPC, which is led by our friend and
board member Greg Brown, looked at
nearly 3,000 exits between 1984 and
2018. And here's what they found. From
84 to 2000, as I said, the go- go years
of the leverage buyout that we'll talk
about in depth today. 70% of deal value
creation was due to leverage alone. So,
you'd buy struggling businesses on the
cheap. You'd load up the balance sheet
with all kinds of debt facilities, slash
some spending, shutter or sell some
capital sucking assets around the edges,
and move quickly to an exit before that
short-term arbitrage window closed. And
when this playbook worked, your small
cash or equity investment was typically
levered, hence the name, by many, many
multiples. But starting in the 2000s and
accelerating after the GFC, the music
began to stop on this balance sheet
alchemy, and a major transition was set
in motion. PostGFC again from that IPC
study less than a quarter of value
creation has been based on the use of
leverage. So from 70 to 25 and there's a
sense from GPS that this will continue
to shrink. Simon Coocher the consulting
firm conducted a GP survey in 2024 to
determine the drivers of return
expectations or you might say the
contribution to the investment thesis
upon acquisition of new companies. And
the verdict, GPS only ranked leverage as
participating in a modest 7% of their
expectations. So a very small part of
their motivation for acquiring these
portfolio companies. The practice of
private equity is now a sophisticated
laboratory of sustainable enterprise
value improvement. Scores of experts
across practices from HR to marketing to
AI are employed and brandished across
portfolio companies with the expectation
of cultivating long-term and durable
margin improvement. Operating value ad
OVA as Steton calls it now accounts for
about half of the value creation of
private equity deals. So while leverage
has been going down 70 to 25, operating
value ad has been skyrocketing up and
accounting for nearly half of that
value, most of that OVA even more
importantly is in sales growth in
product improvement and expansion in
efficiency gains versus cold hard cost
cutting. And this is the patient
craftsmanship that underpins many of us
to believe that private companies,
private structures are a superior form
of governance and ownership than the
momentby-moment emotional and
schizophrenic machinations you might say
of the public markets. But that is a
very modern reality. It was not the
roots and the origin of private equity.
So what were the circumstances that led
to this revolution? Why did the industry
abandon that old model? Was it voluntary
progression or collective coercion? And
that's what we're going to examine
today. So, as is common, Aaron and I are
going to invite you into the capital
decanted time machine to try to
experience this transformation together.
We'll start in the proto private equity
era of the 50s and 60s and describe how
the LBO was first conceived and how it
was utilized and ultimately became
synonymous with the pop culture of the
roaring 80s when it really peaked. We'll
spend a few minutes investigating the
anatomy of those deal structures and
actors that composed the financial
engineering glory days. And then we'll
begin peeling back some of the subtle
but ultimately irreversible powers and
trends that crept into the industry and
began disrupting and demanding this
model change towards operating value.
And finally, we'll complete the story by
describing how the operating value ad
model is employed today, what levers
these firms use, and how it manifests
itself in risk return synthesis. And
then of course after our short break for
halftime today, we will be joined by
Jacob Katub, co-president of the 50
billion asset center management GP
platinum equity, one of the very first
movers in the operating value space. So
that's where we're going. That is our
blueprint. Aaron, are you ready?
>> Ready to go. Let's do it.
>> All right. So history, as I mentioned,
as I periodically mention on stage and
on this show, I believe before, the
first venture capital deal was as early
as 1957. There was a 30-year-old young
corporate finance professional at Hayden
Stone and Company named Arthur Rock. And
Arthur was famous for providing capital
for the founding of Fairchild
Semiconductor to what is infamously
called the Trtorious 8. These were the
eight engineers that walked out
simultaneously of Shockley semiconductor
as I said in 57. And by the way, the
legacy of those eight is just
mind-blowing. Just as a fun fact, it
included Gordon Moore, which is the
inventor and the namesake of Moore's
law. And then more the same Moore and
another of those eight, Robert Noise,
later founded another integrated circuit
company that probably most of you have
heard of, Intel. Andy Grove, another of
the eight, was the third Intel CEO that
was recruited over from Fairchild. And
some of the others of those eight would
be part of startups that we would know
today. National Semiconductor, Advanced
Micro Devices. These offspring of the
Fairchild startups and founders were
often called the Fairchildren, which I
thought was amusing. But that's venture
capital that is defined by early stage
and a minority non-controlling stake. So
Erin, in your research, did you come
across or do you have a view on what was
the first LBO leverage buyout deal ever?
>> Oh man, I don't know what the first one
ever was. I know when it peaked, but I
imagine you're about to tell me.
>> I am. I stumped you there. So, of
course, history's never clear and
definitions are murky back in the 60s
and 70s. But there are admittedly to be
fair alternative answers and plenty of
lore associated with who was actually
first. But I'm going to go with the most
widely promulgated version of the first
and that is of Orcin, the pest control
company. So just quick story, the
founder was Otto Orcin, who as the
mythology goes at only 14 years old back
in 1901, he borrowed 50 cents from his
dad. And that 50 cents was utilized to
experiment with mixtures of arsenic in
attempt to develop a pesticide at his
dad's request to keep the rats away from
their Pennsylvania farm stocks. I have
to admit, I'm not sure that this is
great parenting advice. I've never given
arsenic and suggested chemical
experimentation or cocktail
experimentation with poison to my
children, especially my 14-year-old
children. But the history is the
history. And Otto's revelation worked so
well he started selling it doortodoor
and thus was born the modern pest
control business. Now fast forwarding
many decades much later in the early 60s
through a bit of family drama and
obviously his age Otto had seated
control of the organization to his
children and they had actually taken the
company public in 1961 looking to
monetize a portion of their inheritance.
I think they floated about 15% of the
company. But after a year of a listing
and the company peaking previously
shortly after the listing at a valuation
of 72 million and despite having almost
40 million in revenue, strong margins
and a cashrich balance sheet, the stock
was actually wallowing at about half
that peak price. Now around the same
time the Oregon children were flumxed by
the underappreciation they would say of
their cashrich pest business. A Georgian
entrepreneur gentleman named Wayne
Rollins had assembled various
broadcasting assets. Six radio, three TV
stations. But 1964 will be the end of
that media identity for Wayne. As
through this acquisition of Orcin, it
begun its extreme makeover, you could
say, to one of the largest pest control
conglomerates in the world, which is
what it stands as today. It's still
listed as RO on the New York Stock
Exchange. So, the story goes that two
independent financiers and deal brokers
Lewis Coleman and Herb Winer engineered
and facilitated the leverage buyout of
the much larger Orcin by Rollins. The
terms at the time, Aaron, were $26 a
share, which valued Orcin at 62.4
million. That was approaching that
previous peak if you remember. And this
62.4 4 million was funded through a 40
million bank loan from credential
insurance, a 10 million loan from Chase
Bank, 10 million additionally in sellers
notes which are effectively more debt
IUS and about 2.5 million in cash. And
so for those keeping track, that's about
a 96% levered buyout. And while Rollins,
by the way, just as a fast forward, only
reports consolidated numbers today,
analysts believe that the Orcan
subsidiary is doing over 1.5 billion now
in annual revenue. So I think it's fair
to say that Otto would be proud of that
return on his two quarters back in 1901
of what you could call preede money from
his dad. So a fascinating story, but you
might have noticed that while that was
certainly an LBO in the literal
interpretation and definition, these
proto private equity days were largely
financing corporate to corporate
takeovers without institutional LP
money. They were dealmakers and they
assembled capital from various sources
using their personal networks and
relationships. In fact, to my earlier
point on alternative histories and
variations of definitions, you could
make a very good argument that the
merchant banks and the robber barons of
the guilded age, think JP Morgan, Andrew
Carnegie, the Vanderbilts, the Warbergs,
they all took part in buyout activity
and takeover financing from their own
balance sheets around the turn of the
20th century. So again, I'll leave it to
you Aaron and the listeners to determine
whether this orcin story is the best
version of the first LBO. John, does
this make you a buyout manager yourself?
I'm sure you've given some loans to your
children and the Bowman GP fund sounds
like that might exist, too.
>> Yes, although I'm not sure what you'd
call this. I've given several loans that
don't have any coupon in return, and
there's no equity kicker. Let's just be
clear on that. So, there's no leverage
in the pure form to my debt facilities.
It is more of a charitable bank is what
I describe it as.
>> Well, I hope your kids are listening and
they can appreciate all this. I can
assure you they're not. So there you go.
They were forced to listen to one
episode and I think they've retired
their subscription, but oh well. So
jokes aside, in order to understand how
we evolved from these saber rattling
financeers and cowboys to the modern LP
fund innovation and asset class that we
all know today, we need to return to our
story in the '60s. So a month after the
Rollins deal for Oregon, this is again
July 1964, Business Week, the magazine
called the Oregon Exterminating Company
deal one that quote truly captures the
imagination. End quote. Well, Business
Week wasn't the only one that took
notice of the opportunistic success and
the obvious monetary benefit of using
largely debt to finance take privates
and takeovers. Jerome Colberg Jr., then
head of corporate finance at Bear Sterns
and his younger proteges Henry Kravis
and Kravis's cousin George Roberts also
found the buyout process what they
actually termed bootstrap investing
quite dreamy themselves and they began
experimenting with their own series of
buyouts while they were still employed
with Bear Sterns. So through the 60s and
70s, they began setting up these
personal individual limited partnerships
to pursue companies that that trio felt
were performing well below their sales
and profit potential and perhaps had
assets that could be more optimally
monetized. These were typically
family-owned businesses that were
struggling with succession and needing a
liquidity event and some restructuring.
So to fund the takeovers, just as with
Oregon, the three usually borrowed 90 or
so% through high yield debt shops and
funded the remaining 10% through equity
from those limited partnership funds. So
for several years, Coberg and his two
counterparts had lobbyed the executive
team at Bayer to create their own
investment division for them to do this
full-time. But after repeated
rejections, tension had built between
the three and leadership to the point to
the breaking point, you could say. With
all this time that execs thought they
were spending on a hobby so that
ultimately in 1976 the three had had
enough and they would leave bear to
start of course Colberg, Kravis and
Roberts or KKR and they would not waste
any time getting started in their new
address in 1976. Almost immediately they
made their first acquisition buying AJ
Industries manufacturing company for 26
million. In that same inaugural year
they would go on to buy two more small
companies. But here's where this
inflection point occurs because in 1978,
this is obviously two years later, they
raised and launched their first and as
far as I can tell, Aaron, in history,
the first ever private capital
collective LP fund, meaning multiple LPs
are funding a traditional draw down fund
and they raised a whopping 35 million.
Now, before this first fund, I should
say that most of the equity capital for
those isolated limited partner vehicles
they used at Bear and that first year at
KKR was one-off insurance money. Again,
they were really working the phones of
their networks. But a critical
regulatory milestone had just occurred
in the latter years of the trio's time
at Bear Sterns, and that of course was
the Orisa Act had been approved in 1974.
And that provided a huge tailwind as
they entered fundraising for their very
first fund. Orisa was more than a decade
response. It actually was initially
catalyzed way back with the JFK
administration and it was attempting to
address the systematic underfunded
status of public pension systems. And so
as such in 1974, as I said, it
introduced minimum fiduciary duty
requirements, a focus on performance
comparison and benchmarking. And most
importantly for our story today, it gave
broader interpretation and leeway to
what types of asset classes could be
included in these institutional pools.
So pension fund CIOS were liberated, you
could say, to be a bit more creative in
their asset allocation. So in this first
KKR LP drawdown fund in 78, the state of
Oregon invested $10 million. This was
the very first instance of any US public
pension fund investing in any type of
alternative as we call it today. They
and all their brethren were 6040 and
that was probably by the way 60% fixed
income or more. But Orisa had nudged
them to consider other ways to maximize
risk return optimization. And Oregon's
neighbor Washington would follow a
couple years later and eventually
Michigan and New York City jumped into
KKR's funds during the early 80s as
well. So again, alternative history you
could choose as well. The first
acquisition using institutional LP money
from that KKR fund was a manufacturing
conglomerate in Buffalo, New York called
Hudai in 1979 for 355 million. And so
due to KKR's early successes, the
floodgates just open violently to this
approach to financing and buying
companies and retooling them,
restructuring them, and selling them for
a profit. Over the next decade, the 80s,
it is estimated that over 2,000 LBOs
were completed for a cumulative value of
over 250 billion. Some of the more
notable takeovers during that period
were Safeway. That was my grocery store
growing up, Aaron, just so you know.
That was for 5.5 billion in '86.
Beatatrice, the consumer goods
conglomerate. So think the Samsonite
Tropicana brands among others for 6.1
billion. That was also in ' 86.
Federated Department Store is for 6.6
billion in 1988. That's Bloomingdales,
Phileen for you Boston friends among
other store brands. William Simons, and
by the way, William Simon had just
completed his term as Nixon's Secretary
of the Treasury. He purchased Gibson's
greeting cards for 80 million. And that
was iconic not because of its size. This
was in 82, but rather because Simon made
200 times his money in only 18 months
when he took it public. So his 330,000
of cash turned into 66 million. That is
the power of leverage to say the least.
And all of this, of course, culminated
in the most famous of all, the 25
billion 1989 KKR takeover of RJR
Nabiscoco, immortalized in the book of
Barbarians at the Gate. And still, I
should say, which is just shocking, more
than 35 years later, the fourth biggest
LBO still of all time. That one, which
could be a whole another episode by
itself, was truly excess personified. So
Erin, before I shift to the
circumstances on how we begun shifting
to operational value creation, I think
it's important to spend just a few
minutes here, pause here, and break down
the anatomy of these what I've called
proto PE deals. Who were the actors? I
hinted at a few examples, but who were
the players generally? What did the
capital stack look like? Where did the
funding come from? How did this all work
back in those early days? And I think at
the very beginning of the episode, you
were describing swashbuckling pirates
and all sorts of different descriptors
for these transactions. As I was going
through this, I was thinking about the
late8s into the '9s. This was the birth
and adolescence of the modern LBO that
we're familiar with today. It's
obviously changed a lot since then, but
like a lot of young toddlers, there's a
lot of kicking, screaming, and in some
cases, dirty diapers. So now that you've
got that mental image, we'll get serious
on the actual structure. But I think it
does paint an image of this time or
you've seen greed and excess in this
industry and then the evolution since
then. So in the early LBO days, these
transactions were all a little bit
different. You walk through some of
those different examples, but they all
had a few things in common. One is the
high leverage. So you mentioned that
already. Second, which I'll get into, is
these complex capital structures. The
early stories that you were telling of
banks coming together to provide
financing is the early side of this, but
as you got into the 80s and 90s, there
were a lot more players, which I'll walk
through. And then of course is that
mission of more aggressive cost cutting
asset sales, all of which to juice
returns and return quickly value to
shareholders. So this truly was the
greed is good era of private equity. But
rather than talk in hypotheticals, John,
I think it is helpful to use this KKR
buyout of RGR and Nabiscoco, which is I
think the quintessential illustration of
this time period. So obviously one of
the biggest still one of the most
high-profile at the time as well and it
also carries all three of those
characteristics that I described. So to
break things down, the total transaction
value, as you mentioned, was 25 billion,
which at the time was the largest. And
here's how the deal actually looked when
you start getting into some of the
subcomponents. So 25 billion at the
headline level, 21 to 22 billion of that
was financed through debt and 3 billion
or so through equity. So if you do the
math, that's roughly 85% leverage on
that particular deal. And that
represented a debt to Ebida multiple of
close to eight times. And for context,
today a typical on average debt to Ibida
is somewhere around five times. So we've
come down significantly since then, even
with lower rates. You have to remember
at this time interest rates were much
higher than they were even today. Now
like most transactions at this time, the
component of that 21 to 22 billion in
debt financing came from multiple
sources and it was pretty complicated.
So no longer just banks. But in RGR's
case, when you break things down, it
amounted to this breakdown
approximately. So 7 billion in senior
secured debt and this was provided by
the banks. This was the senior part of
the capital structure backed by assets
senior secured typical debt that you
even saw in the early stages of a lot of
these transactions.
9 billion in high yield junk bonds. So
at the time the rates on these bonds
were mid double digits. So very
expensive debt that was coming from the
public markets unsecured. Three billion
in bridge loans which these were just
short-term loans and the idea was to
refinance them later into high yield
bonds. So add that three on to the nine,
you've got 12. So almost half of the
debt was financed in the high yield junk
bond market. And then finally two
billion in the other stuff which is a
technical term John I don't know if you
knew that but that included things like
sellers notes that you mentioned
preferred equity and other sources of
financing. So this was one of the most
complicated capital structures in the
industry at the time and it was really
expensive. The interest alone across all
of those different sources was around 2
billion per year which was barely enough
for the cash that was just being
generated by the company to cover. You
have to remember RJR and Nabiscoco was a
pretty boring consumer staples company
that sold food and tobacco products. So
it's not like this was a high-flying
tech company with a lot of upside in
terms of revenue generation. So as a
result of the debt burden alone, the
company struggled to deliver on some of
the operating metrics that was necessary
in order to just cover the debt. And we
saw numerous asset sales throughout the
rest of the9s, especially as KKR
struggled to service the debt levels
within the company itself. RJR wasn't
the only one like this, and some deals
were more successful than others, but
the structure was pretty common. Other
notable names throughout this era
included Duracell, Hospital Corporation
of America, and then of course Toys R
Us, which we've talked about in previous
episodes, which really ushered the late
90s into the 2000s. So John, I'll leave
it there, but I think this is a good
transition into that next phase as the
model began to get challenged.
>> Toys R Us has gone back to the well a
few times into private equity and LBO.
They just can't catch a break. The 85%
Aaron just to put a benchmark or an
overunder on it. Was that about average
for the debt level, debt percentage I
should say, at that point? Was that
higher or lower?
>> That was about average in terms of the
makeup. And you even gave a couple of
examples a few decades prior where the
leverage component was higher. I think
what's different about this transaction
is the source of those funds. It might
have been 80 to 90% but a lot of that
was coming from banks which had a lot of
requirements maybe less expensive in
terms of the interest being generated
from those loans. But in this instance
pretty typical debt allocation but very
different in terms of the source of
funds. And that's hence the beginning of
the high yield debt junk bond explosion.
>> Long way from a couple quarters.
>> Yes, indeed. All right. Well, let's
return to our story. That was really
helpful, Aaron, just to frame that and
understand how those structures work.
So, as we've been describing this era
and as Aaron walked us through a couple
examples, this era was all about access
to capital and mostly debt capital. Very
little attention was paid to the
operational efficiency or finding new
strategies to grow. In some cases, these
businesses, as Aaron mentioned, really,
there was no expectation that they had a
lot of growth capability in them. This
was about flipping. It was really about
re-engineering the balance sheet to
significantly steepen the payoff curve
towards an exit. As one blogger put it,
quote, "It was an era defined by
boldness where big money and big debt
made big returns." End quote. The
original dealmakers use financial
sorcery, things like capital
restructuring, tax arbitrage, asset
sales, dividend recaps, and borrowing on
top of borrowing on top of borrowing, as
Aaron talked about, to create
superersized outcomes, or at least when
it worked, they created superersized
outcomes. So, KKR was joined in the 80s
and 90s by early entrance like Forceman
Little, Thomas Lee, Leonard Green,
eventually the other behemoths we've
covered at length on this show,
Blackstone, Carile, and Apollo. But the
decade that begun with the dotcom bubble
in the early 2000s and finished with the
recovering war zone that was post GFC is
when the winds began to shift and new
pressures were placed on these firms to
mature to grow up to find other ways to
add value to their portfolio companies
outside of the strip and flip model you
might call it. So what were some of
these pressures that started arising in
the '9s and the 2000s? first, and we
devoted a whole episode on this show
earlier this season to the poor PR,
partly self-inflicted, but the poor PR
of the private equity industry. And
let's be honest, the hostile corporate
raider reputation of these first few
decades that we've just walked you
through largely still persists on Main
Street today. Whether we think that's
fair or not, that's the reality. Well,
those early day shenanigans and
high-profile bankruptcies of deals
eventually caught up with them with the
industry, and public scrutiny began to
tighten up. Wall Street's Gordon Gecko,
which of course Aaron just quoted,
"Greed is good." Bonfire of the
Vanities, Masters of the Universe. These
archetypes loom large in defining the
private equity brand. And the very real
RJR Barbarians at the Gate cast a long
shadow over this industry. So headline
bankruptcies in the 2000s continued.
Caesar's Entertainment, Energy Future
Holdings, Linens and Things, Readers
Digest, household businesses and brands.
More recently, as Aaron mentioned, Toys
R Us, included massive layoffs,
excessive debt, flawed growth
assumptions, and poor operational
oversight. And these case studies, while
statistically exceptions, nonetheless
became cautionary tales and poster
children that the public began to wield
to begin casting stones at the industry.
So, the first reason here is that the
eye of the public eye began to close in.
But number two, as we described, once
the spicks of this tsunami of capital
turned on and all these copycats jumped
in to join KKR, competition massively
increased. According to Pitchbook, the
number of PE firms globally grew 143%
between 2000 and 2014. Fundraising in
the US alone skyrocketed from 68 billion
in 2001. That's the whole industry, not
the big firm as you might consider
today. 68 billion in 01 to a peak of
nearly 350 billion just before the GFC.
So there was suddenly a ton of capital
and dealmakers chasing new
opportunities. And this of course drove
up purchase multiples significantly and
began to pressure firms to think outside
of the financial magic and the multiple
expansion to something more
differentiated to create real value you
might say versus masquerading shell
games on the balance sheet. The period
of buying companies for mids singledigit
Ebida multiples and flipping them for
double your money in a few years was
really drying up as these entry
multiples ballooned around that period
of time to 9 to 11 times. You had to
find other ways to extract value. And by
the way, Erin, as you know, I just
quoted 9 to 11 times. Like I'm dropping
a mic there, but entry multiples are
probably 150% of that today. So even as
I tell this story, it's fascinating how
we tend to move the goalposts of
reasonable valuations even from this
high-flying peak that we're describing
here. So third, cost of capital. While
historically low interest rates of
course persisted through even co the
lending industry dynamics fundamentally
changed after the GFC after the systemic
paralysis of the credit markets in 2008
fall of Lehman Bayer Meil Lynch among
others massive new regulation and
capital controls on banks were
introduced and the easy and loose money
decade that led to the subprime crash
gave way to yes the rise of private
credit but in the meantime a whole lot
more friction extensive due diligence
process higher lending standards And so
with the relative credit tightening and
this structural shift, it just got a bit
harder to make money versus those
houseian days of the 80s. And then
fourth and finally, the other pressure
that arose in this period of time was
that LPS themselves began to get more
demanding as the balance of power
shifted to the investors. As more of
these collective LP funds were
proliferating, the LPs had a stronger
voice. So, endowment, pension, SWF
boards and staff began tightening the
screws on manager selection, demanding
that GP showcase the ability to create
sustainable and repeatable long-term
value versus again these financial
statement gymnastics. This expectation
of durable value ad became even more
important more recently as ESG
considerations leaked into the culture
of large LPs. the idea of social
responsibility took hold in their
investment beliefs and so the asset
owners and the clients were holding
themselves and by extension their
managers to a broader and more strict
definition of fiduciary
responsibilities.
So these new pressures began challenging
the conventional wisdom and the ability
for these firms the GPS to continue to
drive and produce the returns they were
used to for those first couple decades
of their existence. They needed to
showcase the ability, you might say, to
produce alpha versus this riding the
waves of beta they had been enjoying
like multiple expansion and access to
balance sheet leverage. They needed to
begin finding other ways to improve the
enterprise value of the portfolio
companies. And as we said in the title
of this episode, they needed to begin
morphing into operational artisans
instead of merely financial engineers.
But who would move first? I mean this is
a big change with very different
competencies and identity of talent and
organizational posture. Well back in
1978 the same year that KKR raised their
first fund Dublier Eugene Clayton and
Joseph Rice founded Clayton Dublier and
Rice or CDNR. CDNR is often called the
godfather of the operating partner
model. And the operating partner model,
as they originally imagined it way back
in the late 70s, was the placing of
seasoned executives in their portfolio
companies that through their managerial
expertise could unlock value and drive
performance. On the history section of
CDNR's website today reads the following
quote, CDNR was founded on a simple
premise. Good investments results from
sound decision-making, and great
businesses are built with a commitment
to operational excellence. The founders
shared the belief that the combination
of financial and operating capability
would lead to better decision-making,
more effective business building, and
strong investment performance. They
called it an operational approach to
private equity investing. End quote.
Now, frankly, Aaron, there's probably a
little bit, as with all of our websites,
of revisionist history here, or at least
a sprinkling of exaggeration in this
origin story, as these founders, let's
be honest, they were primarily financial
engineers to start as well, just like
everyone else. Their original investment
thesis was to focus on carveouts and
turnarounds where significant
intervention and capital restructuring
was needed. But to their credit, pun
intended there, as early as the 80s,
their insight on the power of leadership
compelled them to begin building a
network of proven CEOs and experienced
corporate leaders to install in their
companies. So their model was at least
financial engineering plus. Many of
these operating partners were from large
organizations like GE who had a deep
understanding of supply chain
rationalization, asset utilization,
labor optimization, all the elements of
course of Jack Welch's six sigma
worldview. And this hands-on operational
leadership well ad hoc and arguably more
brute force cost cutting to start begun
to unveil or peel back exciting lessons
and it started to write the playbook for
more comprehensive and programmatic
value creation. So as they entered the
90s and 2000s, this is again post.com
crisis, CDNR really begun to
institutionalize the operating partner
model. These leaders were no longer just
dropped in and asked to cut costs and
polish up the machinery and the
workflows for an exit, but executive
level leadership begun to be viewed as
an execution enabler now as a key
competitive advantage. They were at the
table were on the ground floor and
aligned with the original investment
thesis. They participated and
contributed to the due diligence and the
pre-transaction plan. And then postdeal,
they were charged with sustainable
long-term value creation. The partners
called this their industrial approach.
So transformative change that
effectuated higher and more durable
margins was the new blueprint. That was
really the imagination of C, D, and R.
So these operating partners now sought
strategic M&A deals, expansion in new
geographies or products, digitization,
talent mapping, salesforce
reorganization, and other levers to
maximize the potential of the business.
So CDNR really deserves much of the
credit for pioneering this space, at
least being the very first vocal
proponent of operating value
improvement. Now, Platinum Equity, our
guest today, was founded in 1995, still
a fairly early entrant, and postured an
acronym they continue to highlight
today, MN O, meaning they're combining
investment expertise and their portfolio
company acquisition, M&A, combined with
the power of a quote large team of
in-house operating professionals that
add value from the boardroom to the
factory floor end quote. So, MNA plus O.
In 2000, KKR, back to our original
protagonist here, stood up an internal
division called Capstone. Capstone was
an in-house roster of operators solely
engaged to help portfolio companies
improve performance and enterprise
value. Sound familiar? CDNR would
certainly say so. Capstone along with
Blackstone are probably today seen as
the industry benchmark for running this
capability at scale with teams of
unprecedented size that focus on
everything from corporate governance to
human capital to growth and expansion.
But other early movers back in the 2000
towards the operating model were Bane
Capital and that was likely out of the
consulting methodology and their DNA on
their consulting business TPG and Helman
and Friedman. So by the 2010s, it's fair
to say that every major private equity
house led with operating improvement
versus cost cutting and certainly over
financial engineering. Almost all GPS
have a dedicated value creation team
like Capstone at KKR. An army of funible
operating partners that CDNR created or
at least modeled that they could move
around the proverbial chessboard of
their portfolio companies. And they
created which is really standard across
the industry now what's called value
creation thesis as part of the sourcing
and deal closure process. So the map is
put in place before the transaction even
closes. And these value creation thesis
now extend to sales optimization, ESG,
pricing strategy, culture, incentive
alignment, broad tech stack integration,
of course, AI is top of mind these days,
analytics, rigor, procurement synergies,
and marketing best practices among many,
many others. As we said a number of
times, sustainable EBIDA improvement was
now the holy grail. And this is where my
portion of the story really reaches its
end. However, before I hand to Aaron, I
do want to pose a parting question that
perhaps we can press Jacob on. And to me
is the critical response of this entire
episode, especially if you're an LP
that's listening. Because when seemingly
every GP says they focus on a
differentiated set of proven and
repeatable value creation capabilities,
well, it logically follows that this
just can't possibly be true. There has
to be a spectrum of pedalling charlatans
on the one end all the way to superstar
artisans and a whole lot of participants
in the middle. And how do we discern the
players from the pretenders? I think
it's a really important question. On
platinum equity's website today, it
states, quote, "We believe our
commitment to the O, remember again M
and A and O sets us apart from other
firms and helps us build strong, healthy
companies and create meaningful
long-term value. Platinum is set apart
and they've made a business out of this
and that's probably fair. But the
phraseology and verbiage I hear all the
times in decks and speeches across the
industry and at conferences. So where
does lip service end and demonstrative
proof begin? The financial wizardry is
still there. It's just a bit more
subtle. And how do we make sure we're
understanding the attribution that
creates value from each of these GPS? So
Aaron, on that note, baton passed as we
progressed into the teens and through
the pandemic ultimately. How did OVA
emerge as the dominant model? What
avenues and activities really define
what these GPS are doing with their
portfolio companies?
>> Yeah, and I love the four points that
you brought up a little bit earlier,
John, of the reason why we've seen this
evolution. And if I can add a fifth,
which I think is a good segue into the
more recent past decade, 15 years or so,
it's just the complexity of the private
equity industry and in particular the
different sectors that these GPS are
playing in. RGR Nabiscoco was again that
boring consumer staples food and tobacco
company but now you have private equity
heavily invested in tech in software
cloud and all of these require a lot of
more subject matter expertise a lot of
them chase platform types of solutions
and there's a stat when I was doing some
research on this from pitchbook that
looked at just add-ons as a component of
the overall private equity transaction
volume and in 2007 seven. So, right at
the beginning of the GFC, only about
half of the transactions that were in
place were add-ons. So, basically a GP
coming in taking two companies or
merging them together or adding a
smaller company to an existing larger
company to try to grow scale. When you
look at the early 2020s around the COVID
period, it was over 70%. So, this volume
of transactions and I think a lot of
this is driven by the tech wave that
we've seen post GFC as well. I think
that's another huge component. You need
subject matter expertise in order to
execute. So I don't know if that came up
in your research as well, but I thought
that was interesting during mine. So in
terms of a more recent history, I think
maybe starting with an example and then
I can get into the more recent playbook.
So I used RJR and Aiscoco as an
illustration of the early days of
LBOS's. So if we look at postGFC era,
let's use a more recent example to
contrast some of those differences in
terms of how deals look and are
structured and different alignments. So,
the one that I'm going to use here is
Dell, Dell Technologies, which is a
pretty common one when you take a
modeling class. This was part of my grad
school M&A class that I took. If you
take any LBO transaction certificate or
course that's out there, Dell is usually
a really good one that's used in some of
those different courses. So, Dell went
through different buyout transactions
over the course of 2010s. The first one,
which I'll focus on, is in 2013. They
had another one a couple years later in
16 and then ultimately we went public in
2018. Michael Dell himself and
Silverlake Partners were the two
sponsors and lead buyers on this deal.
In 2012, Dell was a public company that
was struggling to grow and really shift
into this new cloud-based environment
that we now know today. Michael Dell,
founder of the company, believed that he
would be in a better position as a
leader of the organization and just from
a governance and strategy perspective to
transform the company and adapt in the
private markets rather than in the
public markets. So in late 2013, Dell
and Silverlake partners took the company
private at a valuation of 25 billion. So
the same valuation that we saw with RGR
and Aiscoco. Aaron, actually I think to
be precise, it's about $100,000 cheaper,
which means it comes in at number five,
not number four all time.
>> Close enough for this particular
example. So 24.9 billion in terms of
valuation, but the makeup of the
transaction looked really different than
what we saw with the early transaction
of RGR and Nabiscoco. So 4.5 billion in
equity through a combination of Dell and
Silverlake only 15 billion in debt so
rather than the 21 to 22 billion and
then about 7.5 billion was in cash and
this was cash that came from the balance
sheet so didn't have to go for external
sourcing in order to make this
transaction. So while the leverage was
high, it was only about 60% of the
transaction value instead of the 85%
that we saw 30 years ago. And the debt
to Ebidal multiple was closer to about 4
and a half instead of eight. So that's
the structure. But I think in comparison
to what we saw with RJiscoco, there's
also three other differences that showed
up more in the alignment and long-term
thinking of the transaction. Maybe not
so much the numbers. So, first, Michael
Dell himself was an equity owner in the
private company. He effectively rolled
his 750 million in equity from the
public company into this new privately
held company and then Silverlake put up
the rest of the capital in the
transaction. Second, the debt was much
less complicated and aggressive for
Dell. For example, only 3 billion came
in in the form of junk bonds versus the
8 to9 or 12 if you're going to count
those rollover components. And then
finally, of course, as I mentioned, some
of this was self- financed as well. So
7.5 billion was used from cash on the
balance sheet, which meant that the real
debt was even less. There was less
leverage in the system. While the deal
structure isn't everything, you can
probably see the differences just in
terms of the alignment and the attitude
between the new equity holders of this
private company versus what we saw many,
many years ago. The buyout of RGR
Nabiscoco was focused on extracting
value and using debt to juice returns.
And in contrast to that, the Dell
transaction was similar valuation, but
much more focused on turning the company
around to take advantage of new trends,
new technologies, and so on. So, for the
sake of time, I won't discuss the
details of the following Dell LBO a few
years later, but the spirit of it was
pretty similar. Silverlake and Dell
completed a merger in 2016 to integrate
them into cloud infrastructure as part
of a long-term platform strategy. So to
bring that point back up as well and
then of course Dell went public in 2018
through an IPO. Now Dell is just one
example but I think this is indicative
of a few industry trends post GFC. John
hit on a couple of these but first the
leverage component has come down
significantly post GFC. So again,
instead of the 80 to 90% that we were
used to seeing in the late 80s through
the9s, we're looking at leverage closer
to 50 or 60% for most deals. Second,
capital structures have been simplified
and there's greater coordination amongst
the players. We've seen a large rise in
middle market direct lending take the
place of the banks in the senior secured
space and also even if banks are playing
in the broadly syndicated loan space the
covenants have become much more flexible
typically covite which works in great
times and can be dangerous and
challenging times but there's much more
partnership and coordination amongst the
equity holders and the lenders to these
companies and then as John just
mentioned third you've started to see
these GPS build out their operator
expertise and try to partner with
organizations to maximize value over a
longer time period instead of the
typical couple years of flipping things
around. And then finally, another
interesting evolution is the shift for a
lot of GPS from IRRa measurements to
cash multiples. Leverage creates an
opportunity to juice IRRs, and that has
historically been the focus for a lot of
these GPS. However, more and more
investors are focused on cash on cash
returns. what are you actually earning
for your investment which isn't as
easily gained by some of the tactics
that leverage provided in the 80s. So
that leads us to today. Let's talk about
the playbook. So often times you'll see
organizations discuss their operational
playbook which is their quote unquote
secret sauce dedicated to value creation
for these organizations. And these are
simply the levers that these operating
teams focus on when they get really
hands-on with the business or they're
developing that thesis as John
mentioned. Now, every GP has their own
way of articulating their playbook
strategy, but when you zoom out and try
to look across all of the major players,
there's a bit of a common taxonomy
across four to six levers that they tend
to pull with these organizations. So,
I'll list them quickly and then we can
get into how some of the different
players lean into ones versus others. So
first is revenue growth. Sales and
pricing is an area of focus for this.
Second is operational efficiency and
this is really focused on margins ITA
expansion and so on. How you actually
managing the business from an
operational perspective. Third is M&A.
These are the add-ons that I was talking
about earlier. Platform based
strategies. How do you build synergies
across multiple companies within the
industry? Fourth is talent and culture.
So leadership development, broad-based
equity participation for employees and
so on. Fifth is sustainability focusing
on climate, people, human rights, etc.
And then six is capital efficiency, the
good old financial engineering that we
started this episode talking about. Now
each GP might focus on a handful of
these. It may not be all four or all six
depending on the organization. And these
are all an art versus a science. Some
are much more explicit than others, but
when you look at places like Blackstone,
Blackstone tends to focus on operational
efficiency and M&A add-ons, whereas KKR,
as we've talked about, has significantly
shifted from the early days of capital
efficiency to revenue growth and talent.
And of course, we covered this in a
previous episode on the PR side of this
with Pete Stavros. Now, some of this
becomes a little bit clearer when you
start to think about where some of these
GPS play in terms of segmentation. So
for example, Apollo is still probably
one of the major organizations that
maintains that reputation on capital
efficiency. They're typically looking at
more distressed assets, valueoriented
assets to try to turn companies around.
They may be less inclined to do M&A
solutions and emphasize different
elements of this. On the other hand,
Vista has a focus on software and tech,
which means that they're much more
focused on the M&A platform-based
strategies to try to scale revenue
growth, but they may not focus so much
on the capital efficiency because
leverage is not a big component for a
lot of these organizations. So, it
really depends on sector bias and where
some of these organizations started to
cut their teeth in terms of making these
transactions. Now, the natural question
to ask here is to John's point, how much
of the value creation actually comes
from the GPS versus these just being
good companies? After all, GPS want to
invest in these companies for a reason.
They're typically generating healthy
cash flows and are stable, but what is
that correlation versus causation? So,
I'm also very excited to get Jacob's
view on this as a GP himself because
it's really, really hard to break these
components apart. As GPS talk up their
operational expertise, practitioners and
academics have tried to determine who's
a good operator versus who's just good
at identifying good companies. By the
way, identifying good companies isn't a
bad thing, but understanding where the
actual value creation comes from, can be
really helpful for manager selection,
particularly LPs who are potentially
willing to pay up for fees where that
value is being created. I won't go into
the details, but before I turn things
over to John to close us out, I'll just
highlight two studies that I think our
listeners should check out on this
correlation versus causation question.
One is from Verdad Capital which looks
at the US buyout industry and the other
is from the European Bank for
reconstruction and development that
looks at the European component of the
buyout industry and both of them try to
disagregate what is attributable to the
GP value ad versus GP's ability for
selecting portfolio companies that were
already on a positive trajectory to
begin with. I'd say just as a headline,
the results are still mixed, but it's
not a situation where we can paint the
broad industry with a broad brush either
way. So, I'm excited to tease this a
little bit further with one example with
Jacob and Platinum Equity, but that's
the playbook, John. Curious what you
think. Well, I think you really
highlighted the reality of today, which
just looks like a 180 from where I
started back in the early days of KKR
and Rollins and Orcin. And it's a
fascinating, as we often talk about,
coming of age story. That's really where
I think our guests can be really helpful
is that we can walk through the history.
We can give great puns on what these
individuals look like and how they
behave, but ultimately it's really
valuable to bring in folks that are
actually practicing and doing this on
the ground. So with that, let's
transition to Jacob Katzub, who is the
co-president of the 50 billion AUM
platinum equity. As I said a little bit
earlier, one of the true pioneers and
early movers on operating value ad. So
stay tuned for halftime and we'll come
back with Jacob.
Well, welcome back to halftime in this
episode of Capital Decanted and I am
just delighted as promised to be here
with Michael Gross, co-CEO and
co-founder of SLR Capital Partners.
Michael, welcome to Capital Decanted.
>> Thank you for having me. Well, Michael,
I thought it would be helpful for the
listeners and certainly me to get a
little bit of a tutorial, a primer on
ABL, on asset back lending. I think this
is one of the hottest and trendiest
areas as a subset of this private debt
explosion that we've seen in the last 5
to seven years, let's call it. So, it
has advanced and matured considerably in
the postcoavid days. So, I wonder if you
could just quickly walk us through the
categories, the taxonomy that make up
this asset class.
>> Sure. And it's a very timely question
because as you mentioned, it seems to be
in 2024 and into 25. This is the hot
area. In 2023 was quote unquote the
golden age of private credit when you
saw a real explosion to cash flow
lending. And now we're seeing is people
moving beyond that and looking to find
other ways to make money within private
credit. I think it'd be helpful to begin
by distinguishing between ABL and ABS
and ABF versus special finance. This
alphabet soup can be very confusing to
new investors and allocators to the
space. Yet the riskrewards in financing
the underlying collateral of various
hard or real assets can be very
different. The ABL market assetbased
lending has traditionally been defined
by carving out assets within working
capital which can be quickly converted
to cash. And the most common types of
assets here being financed are
receivables and inventory. And this is
lifeblood of US companies and it's been
around forever. But today we are seeing
more private credit managers expand the
opportunity set by going into not
necessarily ABL but into ABS and ABF
which include financial securities that
typically have a Q set or extend further
down the balance sheet to property sale
leasebacks plant equipment and IP and
it's interesting that the financing of
these financial securities that has been
very prevalent in the press and very
prevalent within private creditor
manager marketing materials includes
assets that tend tend to be more
associated with the consumer-like credit
space like credit card receivables, non-
agency residential mortgages, auto
loans, and student loans. These pool of
assets, financial assets tend to be very
large and present very much scaled
opportunities for large private credit
managers to distribute in size while
also presenting opportunities to be
financed by insurance capital. We're a
little different and one of the reasons
we're having this discussion is we've
been focusing on assetbased strategies
now since 2012. So this is not a new
flavor for us and we do it for a variety
of reasons and we'll get into that a
little bit later. But the type of assets
that we do within ABL lending are
stretch AL, healthcare ABL, equipment
finance, inventory finance, life science
finance, and lender finance. And these
are all strategies that are extremely
high in labor intensity to both source,
service, and monitor the collateral. And
as a result, the reason we like to be in
these businesses and the reason why
investors are extremely interested today
is there's what I like to call the
complexity premium involved with these
because they are highly complex
strategies and as a result our borrowers
tend to pay higher returns which allows
us to generate higher yields to investor
than other mainstream lending
strategies.
>> That's really helpful. You alluded to
allocators a little bit and I'm curious
how your conversations go when someone
is constructing a diversified portfolio
with all types of risk premia. You
talked about higher rates and returns.
These are obviously different drivers,
business and economic drivers than maybe
your pure vanilla cash flow direct
lending. How do you counsel them to
think about where this fits in a
portfolio? Michael?
>> Yeah, it's a great question and we're
have these conversations constantly. But
I think in answer to that question I
first help it understand why ABL is
invoked today from an investor
perspective. It's attractive to
allocators investors for its absolute
return and its counteryclical profile
and that counteryclical profile comes
from a recurring current income stream
in the high single digits to low double
digits. It doesn't have much correlation
to base rates and importantly doesn't
have much correlation to the cash
lending strategies that you alluded to.
It's also an inflation hedge and it
tends to have higher recovery rates from
collateral values and less volatility
than cash flow lending. Collectively, if
done properly, an allocation to ABL
should create more attractive risk
adjusted returns and expand a
portfolio's efficient frontier. We like
to talk to our clients and ABL loss
rates tend to be lower than cash flow
loans. And importantly, they are more
constant throughout cycles, whereas cash
flow loan loss rates will vary based
upon the economic cycle. And also
lastly, direct lending, more traditional
direct lending has become extremely
competitive and borrower friendly. And
with the advent of these tremendously
large perpetual private BDC's, rates
been coming down and structed
lending space. What we have found though
is that allocations to ABL, whether it's
from a pension fund, an endowment or an
RAIA, still relatively early in its
adoption, yet the opportunities for
access have increased meaningfully over
the last couple years, including from
the asset liability mismatch dynamic
that took place at the regional banks in
2023. But we do think there's still
there's still a challenge here in
getting clients to move into the space
because AL's still grappling with the
bucketing problem that private credit
used to have versus public credit. Most
often we find the decision to allocate
the AL follows a pre-existing investment
in direct lending by these parties. And
lastly, I think most allocators view
this direct lending exposure as private
credit beta and are now looking to AL
and niche lending strategy to provide
them with private credit alpha.
>> Yeah, it's really interesting. It is a
bit of a mashup in a way in that it
shares some DNA with real assets. You
mentioned inflation protection and then
certainly it's fixed income in its very
essence as far as being private
debt-like and with a little bit of a
premium given the return stream and yet
it has very low loss rates. So it's a
very interesting combination that you're
charting a new course here Michael even
though you guys aren't new to it. So,
we're going to have to leave it there,
listeners. And if you're interested in
more of a primer on private credit, the
entire space overall, we did a dedicated
episode on that in season one last year.
So, Michael, thanks so much for joining
us. And listeners, stay tuned for our
guest segment.
Well, welcome back to this episode of
Capital Decanted. And as promised, we
are now delighted to have join us in
studio Jacob Kadzub who is co-president
of the near 50 billion of asset center
management at Platinum Equity. Jacob,
thank you so much for joining Capital
Decanted.
>> Thank you, John, and a pleasure to be
here. Look forward to the chat.
>> Well, I want to start with a little bit
of historical framing, Jacob, that I
thought you could help us with. Before
we get to the operating capabilities and
the rolling up your sleeves that has
really defined this phase and certainly
platinum equity, I'm hoping you could
help the listeners take a little bit of
a journey back to how we got here. A lot
of these capital decanted stories as we
often say are coming of age stories and
private equity is certainly no exception
there. So when I think of, as we talked
about a little bit in the intro, those
early iconic LBOs's back to the 70s and
80s, Safeway, Beatatric, of course, RJR,
which everyone knows about. This was
predominantly a financial engineering
business, and that really persisted for
decades. They were these leverage
wizards that would spin their magic, and
that has really morphed into artisans,
as you might call it, that are building
true enterprise value with operating
improvements. So, I'm curious on your
perspective, Jacob, on how and when did
we begin to start seeing that shift and
why did it occur?
>> You rais a great point and I think it's
a natural evolution in private equity.
You know, as competition has increased,
more and more GPS have been funded by
LPS. People have had to find a way to
continue to differentiate themselves and
find a way to generate alpha beyond just
the financial engineering skills. And I
think that's the biggest driver is how
to be different and how to do more than
what financial engineering alone lets
you do. There's probably not a single GP
today who walks into an LP meeting and
says, "Hey, we're great financial
engineers. Please make a commitment."
Everybody talks about operations.
Operations though is a very amorphous
word. It has many different meanings in
terms of how that's actually implemented
and executed. I don't know when that
transition began, but I will tell you
that Platinum was among the earliest
firms to utilize true operational
differentiation, having been founded in
1995 with operations as its core DNA. In
fact, our founder Tom Gores, our current
chairman and CEO, is somebody who came
out of operations. His first hires were
a group of operations executives. And
this group of operations executives
together learned M&A and it takes the
typical founding of a US private equity
firm and really flips it on its head in
that they are typically founded by
ex-wall street professionals who most
likely have not spent a day of their
life actually working in a factory or in
a distribution facility. So we come from
a totally different place and when we
raised our first fund outside capital
fund in 2004 the idea of an
operationsled an operation centric
private equity firm was still very much
a novelty being in these meetings with
LPs they were scratching their head at
the fact that all the leaders in the
firm didn't come from a pedigree of Wall
Street education and it was exciting to
educate them and exciting to deliver the
differentiated results that we've been
able to deliver as the result of that
DNA and in fact that DNA impacts
everything at our firm from how we
assemble our deal teams to the kind of
diligence that we do to the operational
impact that we make on businesses once
we own them as well as even how we form
our investment committee. There are
seven members of our investment
committee. I'm one of them, but five of
the seven come from an operations
background. And again, that takes the
typical power base and voice inside a
private equity firm and flips it on its
head. It's a nice place to come from. I
think everybody feels they need to have
it in some way. But again, how they
implement it, how they executed is a
really wide variety of dynamics there on
the operation side. That's really
helpful, Jacob. And there's a bunch of
hooks that I want to make sure we come
back to. You talked about that fictional
exchange with the LPGP. I know we want
to get back to that to help the
listeners understand the players versus
the pretenders because everyone's
talking about operating value. So, we'll
circle back to that later. I have to
imagine that retrospective too
competition has been a big part of this
meaning it's just harder to make money
off of really solid financial engineer
and you have to have a lot more than
that certainly the cost of capital in
more recent years has obviously I think
accelerated the pressure to offer
something different and truly value add
it so again we'll get back a little bit
to that how that's affected your talent
map and the type of individuals that you
both have on staff and that I know you
have in your network when you work with
portfolio companies I want to maybe zoom
in however before we get back to some of
those points. Jacob Platinum uses this
really interesting framing of MN A and O
meaning mergers and acquisitions and I
assume the O you can correct me is
operating value or operating capability.
You've added that third element and that
means a couple things clearly. You're
emphasizing the third element but it
doesn't mean you're ignoring multiples.
It doesn't mean you're ignoring entry
point and exit point completely I
assume. So I'm curious as you assess a
prospective deal, a prospective
portfolio company, how does the calculus
work for the value you expect to get out
of smart timing of entry and exit and
then the value you expect to extract in
between those two periods? So look,
you're absolutely right that a GP has to
be good at asset selection, which is to
say correctly judging the macro and the
microeconomics that will weigh heavily
in favor of a business being successful
in the long run, as well as ensuring
that you don't overpay at entry. I think
it may have been Buffett who said half
the battle of being a good investor is
not overpaying or to buy it right. But
we view operational improvement as a
core additional pillar in our investment
thesis, investment philosophy. And
importantly for us, we never want to be
just capital in a transaction. We always
want our operations team to be impactful
to the deal that we're working on. And a
lot of what we do is corporate
carveouts. I think as a firm, we're well
known as the premier global corporate
carveout investor. And in corporate
carveouts, there's two elements to
operational capability and how to think
about it. One is you're often buying
businesses that have never been
standalone companies and it's a complex
separation process and you have to be
good at that. And then also you have to
be good at taking a business that has
been noncore, underlogged, underinvested
and understand how to improve those
operations. And so for us that
operational element is a sin qua nonan
in terms of making an investment. has to
be a core part of our operational
thesis. So, we're always looking for
those opportunities where we're not just
buying a great management team, a great
company with great macro and micro
dynamics. There has to be something that
we can do to transform it and
significantly improve it. So, it's all
of those things. It's being a good asset
selector, a good buyer in terms of not
overpaying, but also having ways to add
value to the business beyond just its
standard course without operational
intervention.
>> So that's table stakes. There has to be
this assessment that not only is the
multiple outcome upon entry and exit
compelling, but also that there is room
to get in there, roll up your sleeves,
and truly change the business, improve
the business. And we'll talk about which
levers you often pull there. I'm curious
given that all three of those as you've
just said need to be there Jacob on the
front end and if you want to use
examples that would be helpful but give
us a sense for how that sourcing works
where does this universe come from
meaning you have to check all three
boxes so where do you assess these
companies what is the mosaic of how they
eventually end up on your lap and then
what do you go about doing what's the
playbook to move through this process of
entry operating improvement and
eventually exit
>> we think we're quite differentiated
really in the entire life cycle cycle of
an investment from whether you're
talking about the sourcing side through
the diligence process through the impact
process through the exit process. We
have some very unique takes on each of
those things and I'll walk you through
that arc. From the sourcing side, we
have and we have always had a dedicated
business development group whose sole
job when they wake up in the morning is
go find deal flow for platinum equity or
if we have a platform work with M&A and
management on finding strategic add-ons
for that platform. And this is a group
that's empowered to be more than just
transactional. really build
relationships with counterparties like
investment bankers like CEOs, CFOs,
heads of corporate development and
develop relationships that extend beyond
an opportunity that is extent at this
moment. So quite differentiated on the
sourcing side in that regard. We might
call on a company for two or three years
reminding them of who we are, what we
look for, how we work and we're told for
two or three years, thanks don't have
anything for you now. But the moment
that they have a transaction where
they're going to devest a division, the
very first thing they think about is,
"Oh, that person from Platinum Equity,
they've been calling on me a long time.
I'm going to have them on the list as a
potential purchaser of the business." I
think we have become in North America
the gold standard. I probably should say
platinum standard for complex global
corporate carveouts. So often find
ourselves with reverse inquiry from
bankers detailing their views on hey, we
think this is a perfect situation for
you. There's operational improvement
here. We know you guys like that and put
us on the list. So sourcing today at
Platinum Equity is not an issue. We have
plenty of deals to sort through and
determine where we want to focus our
resources. You asked also about
postsourcing. What are we looking at
from a diligence point of view? How are
we using a playbook there? And it's
really interesting. You mentioned
earlier our phrase M& mergers and
acquisitions and operations is how we
sum up that acronym. And the point of
that is to say that we view that as a
single discipline. We assemble a deal
team consisting of all of those
capabilities from day one. This team
goes to management presentations
together. They model together. They go
to investment committee together and
they act as a unit. In many private
equity firms, the traditional M&A
professional is the individual who is
the voice of I really want to do this
deal and is talking to similarly minded
M&A execution professionals at an
investment committee level. At Platinum,
we really value the diversity of
experience that the operations side
brings to the deal team and it's a
consensus driven team oriented
philosophy around bringing together
these different perspectives and
aligning on it something we want to do.
If I could tell you a little short story
about the three disciplines that we
bring together in a team, it's a very
traditional M&A execution discipline.
It's somebody like myself or somebody I
might have trained with financial
training and investment bank quite
typically. We also bring in a M&A
finance resource. That is somebody who
typically has had five to seven years of
experience at a big four accounting firm
doing audit and transaction services
work together with an operations
professional who spent a career in
corporations working on problems and
transformation. And if you think about
their personalities, an M&A execution
professional, if you took a glass poured
roughly halfway full, the M&A execution
professional is going to tell you every
single time that glass is half full. You
need to have a deal champion. There's a
thousand reasons not to do a deal. You
need somebody who's willing to break
down walls, climb over obstacles, find a
way to the finish line. You combine that
with the personality of an M&A finance
professional, classically trained in
accounting, conservative, looks at that
same glass of water and tells you every
time that glass is half empty. And then
you combine that with the M&A operations
professional who has accountability and
responsibility for underwriting change.
And they'll look at that very same
glass. They'll study it. They might
pause for a moment and then they'll tell
you that glass is 48.7% full. And when
you can bring those three personalities
and disciplines together and agree that
a deal is a deal that we should pursue,
we think we're making better investment
decisions than the typical model of just
an M&A execution professional saying,
"Hey, this is a deal we ought to
transact on." So, a deeply embedded
embracing of diversity of experience in
our investment process that's mirrored
at our investment committee level. We
have all three of those disciplines at
our investment committee level. So our
diligence process is different and
during our diligence process, we are
actually underwriting an operational
transformation with details around
functional area by functional area how
much, when, how fast, what do we expect
it to deliver. And that means that when
we close on a transaction, we're
actually running at 60 m an hour
executing on that transformation plan in
partnership with management rather than
we buy the business now let's go figure
it out operationally what we want to do.
We're actually executing on that plan
right away. And we think all of those
ways in which we utilize our operations
team from integration in the sourcing
with our business development group to
the diligence process to the execution
of transformation all of that is really
impactful in how we deliver results for
our investors. I love the illustration
around the table of the different
perspectives and the competencies
because I think if you're going to
underwrite all these elements as you
articulated, you've got to have the
diversity of capability and as we all
know, diversity is chaotic and it's
messy, but it leads to better outcomes.
So, I really like the way that you
described that, Jacob. As most of
listeners know and as you know, most of
Capital Decanted is meant to be long
shelf life. This is not a timely pod in
the sense that we're trying to assess
today's market. But I'm going to break
that rule for just a minute before I
hand it off to Aaron who I know is
anxious to get into the nuts and bolts
because I think this is just some
unprecedented levels of extremes you
might say that you're currently faced
with. Most of which I would argue are
headwinds. So when you think about
fundraising and deal flow and the amount
of dry powder, the competition, I have
to imagine that that's creating some
challenges. And I'm just curious if
you'd give us a quick word on kind of
what you're seeing out there and whether
that's actually affecting something that
was on my mind with all this dry powder
with the bank account full or fuller
than normal. Is the cap table looking
more equity heavy than it typically does
just because you've got to get this
stuff in the ground? So big question, a
few aspects to it. One, I think that the
fundraising environment having slowed
down has had a big impact on the asset
class. The most vulnerable GPS in that
regard are those whose capital is
running out or whose time to invest
their capital is running out. And the
drum beat today among LPs is DPI,
distributed to paid in. What have you
brought back for me relative to what
I've invested in you? And for those GPS
whose capital has been depleted, running
out of time, and they haven't had many
sales because deal flow has been slow,
they are in a situation where they have
to compromise on value. So this is, to
your point, an ephemeral dynamic. It
will pass. Most of the time, I think
buying from PE is expensive, but there
are dynamics in play right now where you
can actually find a value deal in the PE
environment. In terms of the cap table,
the cap table for sure is driven heavily
by how well are the debt markets
functioning. And I would say that they
are functioning today. They are working.
They're not frothy though. And with debt
markets delivering say four to five
times leverage in LBOS's today, it does
mean depending on valuation and where
one is hunting and paying for businesses
that the cap tables have gotten more
equity heavy. There really is no
discussion today of a 20% equity check.
It is 35% as a floor and can go up to
50% or even more. And GPS, even if they
have a lot of capital, always want to
balance the equity to debt ratio in a
way that they think is most optimal for
generating a good on their capital. But
we're definitely in a more equityheavy
environment without question. And I
think that's going to persist for some
time. Jacob, I think that's really
helpful in terms of the current
environment. As a wise investor once
said to me, DPI does not lie. So very
helpful in the context of the current
environment. I want to pivot a little
bit into some of the more mechanics of
these transaction and as you're looking
at deals I want to focus on the soft
stuff which tends to get overlooked.
There's a lot of conversation on how do
you structure a deal? How do you think
about balance sheet and income statement
optimization and so on but maybe if we
zoom in on management and culture as two
levers and we'll focus on the first
being management. How do you think about
the relationship with management? how
you assess leadership at an organization
and maybe how that's evolved over the
course of the history of buyouts. It
maybe started as a very adversarial type
of relationship, but it seems like
management is more important than ever.
So, what are things that you're looking
for and how do you view management in
the context of a new transaction?
>> Thanks for this question. It's something
we care really deeply about and I think
it's a really interesting question. At
the end of the day, we've always
believed at Platinum Equity that we are
not investing in inventory or accounts
receivable or PP&E. We are investing in
people and people are what make
businesses valuable. So leadership at
the management level and their ability
to embrace the operational capability
that we bring to the table is an
essential element of our evaluation
process. It's something we're doing from
day one when we first meet management
and looking to go many layers deeper
than just the seauite. And we're really
looking for managers who know how to
inspire people and how to instill a
culture of excellence and a sense of
urgency about everything that needs to
be done. And those attributes are really
invaluable in terms of where we find
those leaders. We having been around for
30 years have a large cadre of former
platinum management teams that we draw
upon for serial assignments and there's
an interesting dynamic that plays out in
the corporate carveout context as it
relates to management which is as you
can imagine it would be the very rare
highly driven highly capable highly
skilled executive who raises their hand
and says could I please go work in the
noncore division that's not typically
where those kind people want to go. So
what we find in the corporate carva
context is about half the time we're
encountering meh management to bad
management. In our context that makes us
excited because it means there's a lot
operationally that hasn't been thought
of that hasn't been gone after and we
can tap into our network of executive
leaders to come in and help transform
the business. But also about half the
time you actually have a really
intelligent, really capable management
team whose every idea and every
initiative has been ignored and we have
the opportunity to unlock that
management team's focus on the new
standalone division that we're
separating out from the carveout. So it
can often come from the company where
they just have been unable to execute on
their vision because they've been deemed
noncore and been run for cash. And when
that's not the case, we tap into the
large network that we have. But this
core concept of inspiring people to
embrace change, to have excellence as
the foundational standard of everything
they do is really core to how we think
about what management to put in place
and to work with.
>> And maybe to take that a step further as
you go down from leadership into the
rest of the talent pool. And I love that
framing within the context of a
carveout. This might be a non-core
business that's not being invested in.
There's real opportunity to grow and
develop this part of the business. As
you think about the talent pool that is
going into this new business that's
being spun out, things that you're
looking for, are there particular
characteristics in the talent pool? And
maybe importantly, how do you think
about getting alignment in this new
business that's no longer part of the
broader organization that's maybe
comfortable at times? So, how do you
think about that? So look, from a
characteristics point of view, you need
somebody, as I mentioned, who can
inspire employees, who can rally people
instead of being afraid of change to
embrace change and be excited about what
that can bring to the business. And I
think that in this context, culture is
really paramount. And culture, it's not
just a set of values you can write down
and hand to each new employee you on
board and say, "Hey, here's our culture.
Please follow accordingly." It's
something you have to as a leader and as
a set of leaders, you have to
demonstrate every single day in how you
behave and what you do. And when you
demonstrate it every day, people absorb
that and mimic that and mirror that. And
building a culture where trust is
pervasive, communication's high. An
executive is as comfortable walking into
a room and delivering tough news,
something's gone wrong, as they are
coming into a room and saying, "Hey,
look at this success we've had." where
bad news travels fast. That's a really
important aspect of what we look for and
what we want to create in the businesses
that we invest in is that environment of
trust with great communication and an
ability to come together and solve
problems quickly when there are
problems. So that's what we look for and
what we hope to find. I think employee
engagement is a key indicator of
success. Turnover may or may not be an
indicator. Sometimes when you have low
turnover, it's actually a sign that the
jobs have become synices and nobody's
really pushing each other and
everybody's protected. So you have to
look deeper than just a turnover stat at
really what is the culture like and
trying to understand that in your
diligence process. And one of the things
I think we're really good at is cultural
change and driving cultural change in
partnership with management in a
business. and we're very comfortable
investing in businesses that don't have
the right culture, but in putting that
in place.
>> So, Jacob, I want to pick up on
something you said earlier, which is
that feeling of urgency and maybe tying
that back with that desire for change as
well. If you zoom out and you think
about your initial purchase of a
particular portfolio company all the way
to exit, there's a lot of different
levers that you can pull within an
organization to drive value, create
value, and that could be sales
optimization, pricing, product
positioning, all sorts of different
opportunities within this organization
to grow value, increase the value of the
business, and so on. So maybe a two-part
question. One, I'm sure there's levers
that I'm missing when I describe some of
those. And then two, what do you tend to
prioritize? And is it a nature of a
couple of these first and then others
later? Or are there particular areas
that you're really focused on and that
creates a value creation process?
>> Thanks for this question. I think it's
important to understand that every
business is different and what they need
operationally varies and often varies
considerably. Our approach has always
been to offer all of our operational
capabilities to an investment, but
prioritize what is going to be the most
impactful. It is not a push model as
much as it is a pull model for
management on where can platinum help me
and be most impactful. And it's
interesting as someone who's been at the
firm for over 23 years now. When I
joined, our operational capability was
really focused on what today we call ops
1.0, 0 which was about cost extraction,
removing excess cost from a business and
the firm was already world class at that
but it's evolved over time and as we
reflected on where can we be impactful
to a business and deliver in a
consistent methodical repeatable way we
realized hey we can move up the P&L from
SGNA into margin expansion focusing on
things like strategic sourcing there
businesses we buy that may have never
looked at their sourcing for 5 years and
there's an opportunity to go relook at
that and dramatically improve your gross
margin and all the way up even into
revenue trajectory. So, we look at all
of the P&L. We have a deep focus on
balance sheet management and removing
underutilized fixed assets and looking
at working capital and where that's
often inefficient. Sometimes we buy
businesses where for many many years
management's been able to say, "Hey, I
need 10 more million for inventory." and
whoosh a transfer comes in and they have
$10 million and they go invest in
inventory but no real KPIs or metrics
around it. So deep focus on the balance
sheet where you can on a one-time basis
monetize for cash excess assets on a
balance sheet and d-risk your investment
early. We've also developed expertise on
the tech side. We've created a group we
call the wide group stands for winning
in the digital era and that group is
focused on implementing technology both
internally in a business that improves
efficiency and reduces friction in
internal processes as well as externally
with customers making a business easier
to do business with. So we leverage all
of that capability in our underwriting
and really focus on what can we deliver
that is the most impactful in the
shortest time frame possible. And as
we've discussed at length already, a
deep focus and capability around talent
enhancement is core to what we do as
well. Delivering management the very
best leaders they need to make their
vision a reality. By way of example,
I'll just give you a concrete example of
this. We acquired a business from
Emerson that was their non-core division
that they called network power. We
renamed this business Verdive. The
business manufactured cooling and backup
power systems for data centers. And
under Emerson's ownership, its revenue
was actually attritting slowly and the
business had accumulated as a long
non-core operation a lot of unmotivated
senior management. And once we invested,
we brought in really talented leaders.
We invested in innovation around energy
efficiency of their products. We cleaned
up a very messy IT environment. And we
redirected the salesforce's go to market
from corporate data centers where the
business was a leader but the market was
in decline to colllocation and
hyperscalers like Microsoft, Amazon,
Google, Apple, Tencent, Alibaba and
incented them to go after where the
growth was. Putting all those things
together resulted in a business that we
bought for $4.2 2 billion in 2016 to
being a public company today with more
than $42 billion of equity market cap.
So there is room to create really really
exciting returns delivering what a
business needs. So we never come in
Aaron with a predetermined view of we
know how to do XYZ. This is what you
need. It's really very much customized
by business and what operational change
is going to be most impactful for that
business's success. Great. I want to
zoom back out a little bit and maybe
similar to the question on deal flow and
valuations and all of those current
events. I think there's a bit of a
current element to this, but then how
you guys think about this within your
own organization and that is exits and
the timing of those exits, the different
levers you can pull for realizing that
value after a certain amount of time.
So, how do you think about the amount of
time, effort, capital, maybe emotional
investment that you're putting in some
of these different companies and then
the timing of those exits and the levers
that you have for different ways of
exiting and I would imagine valuations
certainly plays a part of that in this
environment, but other things that you
factor into that decision would be
helpful to know as well. It's
interesting the way we run our business
is the investment team that was engaged
in the diligence process and encouraging
the investment decision by the
investment committee has lifelong
ownership of that investment and stays
very engaged in how are we developing
the investment in accordance with our
operational transformation plan and
importantly how is that intersecting
with the marketplace and the opportunity
to divest somewhat unintuitively you
might think that having a large
operations team and a big transformation
plan means that we might take longer to
exit, but in fact, Platinum has had a
long history of shallow J curves and
shorter hold times than traditional
private equity because of the fact that
we're driving this operational
transformation plan right out of the
gates quickly and generating value very
fast. That coupled with the fact that
the most prominent exit type for us is
too a strategic who has coveted the
business that we buy but cannot get
their arms around the complexity of that
corporate carveout separation or the
complexity of the transformation. And
once we've done our work and they have a
simpler thing to acquire, they come buy
it from us. And that combination has led
to rapid exits, rapid value creation
translating into rapid exits. As a
matter of course at Platinum in our
investment process we don't model
multiple appreciation as a core part of
our investment thesis we are modeling
either parody or in some cases where
we're knowledgeable about a space and we
think things are overheated might even
model multiple compression and the
operational value ad has to make up for
that multiple compression plus some on
top but we get after it very quickly and
try to generate not just an attract
attractive MOIC, but an especially
attractive IRR in connection with that
MOIC because of the speed at which we
move.
>> Great. Well, Jacob, as we move towards
the end here, I thought we would finish
with a couple bigger questions, zooming
back out as we've taken a bit of a
roller coaster ride. And I'd like to ask
you a little bit about the PR, for lack
of a better phrase, of the industry as
we know well, as I'm sure you know even
better than us because you're faced with
these what you might call accusations,
narratives, stories all the time. Is the
derogatory terms on Main Street like
vultures, assets, strippers, locusts is
pretty pervasive. And yet, in
preparation for this and in my own
study, it's abundantly clear that
revenue growth and operational
improvement versus cost cutting and
layoffs is actually responsible for the
majority of IBIDA improvement. And
that's pretty overwhelming these days.
It certainly wasn't true to be fair in
those high-flying days we opened with,
but it certainly is true now. Why is PR
so poor here? And what can we do
collectively to change that narrative?
Well, let's start with the hard fact
that PE as an asset class is not always
successful and that does mean that the
use of leverage can result in bad
outcomes. We fight very hard for
employees and customers and vendors when
things go off plan and it does happen.
We're very proud at Platinum Equity of
how few times in 30 years we've had any
negative outcomes like that and we
dedicate significant resources to
recovering from situations that have
gone off track. It's one of the things
I'm most proud about as an executive at
Platinum is not when we generate a great
multiple like a 4x in 3 years or a 10x
overall, but rather when we have a 1.1x
after a very difficult situation. That
is our operations talent hard at work as
well. It's interesting though the
negative bias in terms of that PR and
the successes are rarely heralded
broadly. Take for example our verd of
asset that former Emerson network power
division we discussed. I haven't seen
that written up extensively as an
example of a great PE success that's
generated significant growth and hiring.
People tend to focus on the negative and
much like in comment sections on review
websites you see a lot more negative
reviews than you do positive because you
know highly emotionally engaged on the
negative side of things. But at the end
of the day, the asset class is largely
generating returns for pensioners who
were firemen or police people or
teachers or corporate workers. And the
more success the asset class has, the
more secure those pensions are. I
believe the industry has done much more
good than anything else. And I know
that's something that we care really
deeply about. I think the industry needs
to do a better job of heralding a who
we're working for. We're working for
these pensioners for the most part in
the terms of the US investors and
heralding our successes and also I think
the industry needs to do a job of
minimizing how many bad outcomes there
are and that means responsible use of
leverage
fighting when things go wrong. There are
too many GPS especially those without
operational talent where they just don't
have the bandwidth. If something's gone
off track they have to let it go and
move on. We fight really hard. If things
are off track, that's when we reassemble
a SWAT team and go after and and and fix
them so that at a minimum, even if our
return is not going to be great, the
business is stable, employees are taken
care of, customers and vendors have a
stable business to continue interacting
with. But no doubt, I'll close with
this, John, on your PR question. We have
work to do as an industry to improve it.
Jacob, maybe a final question for me.
And as I was doing some preparation for
this episode and looking at the
different ways that GPS can add value to
portfolio companies, there's research
out there that some GPS are really good
at selecting companies that are already
on that upward trajectory in a lot of
ways and others go above and beyond that
in terms of adding that incremental
value, which you spent a lot of time
describing in your seat at Platinum. But
if you were to take a step back outside
of platinum itself for an LP or an
investor who is looking at this asset
class and looking at GPS across the
private equity spectrum, what are some
things that they should be asking,
examining and so on around the selection
process to try to determine which is
which? Are you just good at selecting
good companies or are you good at
selecting good companies that you're
then adding some value on top of? I
think LPS and investors have a very hard
job separating the wheat from the shaft,
so to speak. In this regard, as you
rightly mentioned, performance by itself
could be misleading as a lot of firms
have had the benefit of a long run of
interest rate demands before 2022 andor
they took high risk that paid off. And I
think LPs really need to look for what
are those firms taking low risk,
generating high returns. I think
platinum equity falls into that
category. I'm a big believer in the LP
diligence process in enabling them to
dive deeper in the diligence to
understand a firm's beyond performance,
a firm's processes and the talent pool
that they have. At Platinum, we have
nearly 100 full-time employees on the
operational side alone. And if that's
not the largest in North American
private equity, it's close to the
largest operations team. And they should
take a close look at the size and
breadth of the team. How are the
employees at the GP aligned with success
in the investments? At platinum, we
deliver competitive annual comp carry
participation at more senior levels and
a broad and deep co-investment program
in the deals. And I think they should
also look at the DNA of the firm. Is it
ex Wall Street professionals who've
tacked on operations as this adjunct
thing or is it really in the core DNA of
the firm? Look at where those operators
engage. What are they doing? Are they
represented throughout the investment
process, including at the investment
committee level? Obviously, platinum
operations is the DNA. It's our core. We
talked about the founding of the firm
and how we got started and how our
investment committee is comprised and
how our deal teams are comprised. I
think once you really dig into those
things, you look beyond the numbers at
the firm, the organization, their
processes, their talent pool, it should
become clear who's really walking the
walk versus who's just talking the talk.
>> I think that's really well said. And as
we said at the beginning, there's your
answer LPs and listeners for
distinguishing between the financial
wizards and the operational artisans.
So, Jacob, really well said. Thank you.
Also, I mean, it's abundantly clear that
you take your stewardship and your
responsibility to the stakeholders, the
ultimate owners of this capital very
seriously. We at Kaya obviously exist
for just that reason. And it's really
nice to see authentic validation of that
in practice. And so, Jacob, we thank
you. We applaud you at Platinum for
really building this into, as you said,
your DNA over at Platinum. It's been
absolute pleasure to have you on Capital
Decant to Jacob. I know Aaron and I have
learned a ton. I'm sure the listeners
have too. And I just want to thank you
again for being part of this show. And
listeners, stay tuned for the last sip.
Well, welcome back to the last sip.
Aaron Jacob was fantastic. Called in
from vacation. Listeners, you should
know. I don't think we mentioned that.
So, we are deeply appreciative not only
of the wisdom that he shared, but his
willingness and sacrifice and making
himself available in a time where he,
I'm sure, would much prefer to be on the
beach and sipping fun cocktails. So,
what was your big takeaway either
through your own research, Aaron, or
perhaps reconciled or contradicted with
the discussion with Jacob? I'd love to
hear what you came away with.
>> Yeah. Well, first of all, Jacob deserves
a platinum star. We're not giving gold
stars here at Capital, but as the CEO of
Platinum Equity, Platinum Star, it is. I
think my biggest takeaway from Jacob was
when he was talking about the way that
they approach how they source deals. And
you typically think of a buyout
transaction as a company that might be
middling. Maybe it's generating some
attractive cash flow, but
underperforming relative to its
potential. But the way that he was
describing the way that they look at the
world and I realize it's 1GP was we're
looking for teams or businesses within
larger organizations and try to pull
them out and provide them with capital
strategy to maximize the potential from
that perspective. So it's just a bit of
a different way of looking at the buyout
space that maybe is not always obvious
when I think of buyouts, but I thought
that was just a really interesting
conversation around how they develop a
thesis around that. How about you?
>> That's fantastic. I agree. I thought
that portion of the conversation was
really compelling, too. Mine is maybe
combining a reference you made to
episode 6, the PR of private equity with
some of the conversation we had on
Platinum Equity's model to find great
leadership and the importance of
installing these corporate leaders that
have a lot of experience and capability.
So, the last mile, it seems to me, of
this OVA evolution seems to be the soft
stuff. The early days of this when we
were abandoning and departing from pure
financial engineering, it was really
mechanical stuff like supply chain
optimization, factory floor efficiency
improvements, but what you heard from
Jacob and what you heard from Pete Savos
as you mentioned at KKR is that things
like empathy of leadership, actually
defining a quotient of the CEO's empathy
has big correlation with the employee
engagement of the organization. And that
combination, that secret sauce can have
outsiz effects on morale, efficiency,
turnover, and ultimately margins as we
heard back again in episode 6. And there
is just a growing body of research
spearheaded partly by Pete at KKR and as
we know at ownership works, which was
his creation, and others that clearly
correlates a great culture with superior
financial performance. So I say all this
because even within this era or epoch of
OVA, you've seen it shift and morph and
take on different shapes and emphases
that I think ultimately is ending with
this idea of leadership and soft strong
culture and healthy leadership being
really the ultimate in building value. I
just think that not only aligns with my
values and who we are at Kaya, but also
is just a fascinating final stage of the
maturity of private equity. So that was
really my takeaway.
>> Yeah, that's a good one.
>> So as I mentioned at the beginning
series finale, we are done. We are
headed off to a short break. Seems like
this break is even shorter than last
season. I did also tease that we would
be speaking soon about some of the
changes and tweaks we thought based
partly on your feedback and partly on
what we're seeing from others and what
we think resonates to make season 3 even
better than season 1 and two. And as I
said, we'll have more on that later. But
just as we leave, as we move towards the
conclusion of season 2, Aaron, what was
your highlight? What was your favorite
episode as you recall this journey
together? There's several that we've
done that really resonate with me. I
think maybe the one that I learned the
most from maybe that's a lens for me to
think through was definitely the crypto
episode and how this could be the time
for crypto, how it could fit in a
portfolio. So, I learned a lot from that
one. I think more generally both private
equity episodes, the PR one that we did
and then this one, I feel like I've
learned a lot even just in the research
and the prep and the history around this
industries. But in terms of the delta of
what I didn't know versus what I know
now, I'd say crypto was the one that I
learned the most. How about yourself?
>> I think my answer is correlated with
what you just said. What I learned the
most, what made me most proud based upon
the labor and the hard work and the
discipline of diving in. I think it's
got to be China for me. I know it was
our longest and that was, forgive us,
but that was a manifestation of just a
ton of reading and enlightening
understanding of history. And oddly,
while an ancient country, a very short
modern history that has defined the
investing thesis around that massive
economy these days. So, I think that's
got to be it. I loved a lot of episodes.
Again, as I've said before, it's like
choosing a child. But that was probably
the most proud I've been. By the way,
listeners, we're also, as we did last
year, going to release our five top
episodes in the off season. So Aaron and
I's answer aren't necessarily the most
popular and we'll let the suspense build
for whether they were or not, whether
those two were in the top five, but
we'll see what you guys thought was your
highlight just to contrast it with ours.
So our fun question just to finish off,
Aaron, this was suggested by our fun
production team that are getting to know
us all too well, but Aaron, what movie
world or universe if you could live in
would you choose? So, with all the
disclaimers of this being a dystopian
story, it's a good book, really good
movie, but if I could live in the oasis
of Ready Player 1, that'd be a ton of
fun. So, yes, there's a evil villain
who's trying to control it, and there's
all sorts of bad things about virtual
reality in the story, but it'd be cool
to visit every so often. So, that
probably says a lot about me, but that
would be my choice. How about you?
>> I'm really having a hard time on the
spot here. I mean, I could say I'd love
to be Link in Zelda if I could be one
person, but if I had to say universe,
Nicholas Sparks, I'm a romance lush. So,
basically, all of his universe of just
perfect fairy tale endings, as you've
heard, Nicholas Sparks and me at 35,000
ft end with a lot of crying and tears
and quite embarrassment with my
neighbors on the plane. So, I'm a sucker
for anything Nicholas Sparks. So, if
that's a universe, I would live in it.
So, I want to go into a cool technology,
virtual reality, and you want to cry a
lot. That's great.
>> I just want to win the girl in the end.
Yeah, I'm romantic at heart. There you
go. Lover, not a fighter.
>> There you go. All right. Well,
listeners, it's been a amazing season.
It's been a fun ride both today and
through the other 10 episodes. Thanks
for hanging with us. Thanks for
listening. Thanks for making this an
enjoyable and fulfilling element of our
work. It is hugely and richly valuable
for us and I hope on the margin that
there are takeaways and nuggets and
elements that you're taking away to your
desk that is making you a better
investor and a better fiduciary for your
clients. So with that, have an amazing
summer and we will be back soon with
some updates on season 3. Take care.
